ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u1	The next item is VAO Pregnancy and birth. The AO was held on 29 November. I shall be the first to give the floor from the Chamber to Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. I'll start reading it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas objective advice in the case of assistance for choice may be put under pressure if that same organisation, in other social expressions, such as information or campaigns, unilaterally advocates one direction of resolution in the case of unintentional pregnancy;]] [[points out that social expressions of an organisation may hinder an objective process of assistance (choice support);]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure, within the legal framework, that healthcare providers who receive public funding through the open-house construction, in choice-help calls, do not unilaterally prefer one direction of resolution in unintended pregnancy;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that other expressions, such as information or campaigns, do not one-sidedly highlight one direction of solution, which undermines an objective aid process;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Chamber on this matter before the start of the open house construction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u3	We have discussed this extensively in the debate. We also talked about Siriz' expressions on the website of the Week of Life, which they have co-organized and for which they are co-responsible. It was very directing, suggestive and very negative statements about abortion. Can I interpret Mrs Bergkamp's motion in such a way that such expressions and Siriz's involvement can no longer go hand in hand with offering choice help? Does she intend to do so with this motion, among other things?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u4	Thanks for the question. That's right; that's what our motion is about. The motion makes it very clear that one direction of solution must not be one-sidedly exposed in expressions. This includes, for example, such a site.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u5	That is very good to hear, because that is precisely what my group is concerned about. I am therefore pleased with this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u6	The D66 Group attaches importance to objective choice aid. My question concerns the information point. For many women, that's probably the first place they end up when they're unintentionally pregnant. Does Mrs Bergkamp also think that the information point in this sense should be objective and not be steering?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u7	My motion is about the organisations that make selection help calls. My motion says you can't send in those choice-help calls, nor in the expressions around them. That was also apparent in the Interrupt debate. At a hotline where women can call, it is of course also important that a woman is not directed in a particular direction, but that we simply look at the mission objective of an organisation and then what the advice can be and to which organisation can be referred.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u8	Clear. The information point should also not lead specifically to certain organisations. But we're still having a discussion about who's going to man up that information point. For my group, it is important that this really is an independent organisation that does not speak in favour of one direction or another and in that sense is truly objective and independent. My question to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is: does it think that this is extremely important? The organisations should not be steering and should not give preference in one direction or the other; I have heard Mrs Bergkamp say that clearly. Shouldn't that also apply to the information point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u9	I think it is important that the woman can finally make her own consideration and that she is not sent in the choice-help conversation or through expressions, for example through the site. That's one way. The second side is that of course there will be a hotline where women can call, where they can get advice and where they will then be referred to an organisation. In order to be able to refer properly, you must of course know which organisations you can refer to and it must also be transparent what the mission of those organisations is. We have also agreed in general consultation that when reference is made to an organisation, it is important that it is also very clear on the site what the mission of this organisation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u10	Thanks to Mrs Bergkamp. I also hear her say: the law is here to lead. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mrs Dik-Faber. Women have the right to decide on their own body and the law creates a framework for that. I would like to ask Mrs Bergkamp the following question. We have spoken before in the debate about cutting administrative, financial and policy links between Siriz and the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child in this case. How does Mrs Bergkamp see that cutting in the light of her motion? Is that part of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u11	I have stated explicitly in general consultation that I believe that the way an organisation is organised is up to the organisation itself. What I think is important is that we make a choice here as a political one, that we say "these are the quality requirements that such a choice-help call must meet, and we cannot send in any of them," and that the expressions do not send in any of them. Because at some point that same woman might also google, ends up on a site and thinks: hey, that organization where I just had a elective interview, is now sending me a certain direction. These are things that I am saying with this motion, along with Mrs Tellegen: we simply do not want to do so anymore. How organisations are organised is ultimately up to those organisations themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u12	But doesn't Mrs Bergkamp think that it is not possible for an organisation such as Siriz, which is linked to an organisation that aims to protect the unborn child and gives disinformation to women, such as VBOK, to receive public funding within the quality criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u13	I can repeat what I just said, but I think that this motion will be a real reason and will have to be for Siriz to think carefully where and how they express themselves. Perhaps that is also reassuring for Mrs Ploumen. Hopefully this motion will be adopted. I think that as a Chamber we are sending a very clear signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u14	Mrs Bergkamp said earlier: let every organisation be clear about the mission. Let MPs also be clear about the mission. Is this simply a motion to muzzle Siriz or does the motion have a wider scope and is it also referring to other situations that have occurred in recent times and which Mrs Bergkamp says should no longer be able to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u15	I believe that we have had a very worthy general discussion, which was rather spicy, but in the same consultation I indicated that this motion also applies, of course, to other organisations. It is a fact that, as has just been mentioned in the GroenLinks Interrupt debate, we have indications about the site. There's one organization underneath it. Hence the focus in this debate and in general consultation, but let me be clear about this: the motion, of course, concerns all organisations. No organisation is allowed to steer in one solution direction in the selection help conversation and also in expressions around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u16	It seems to me above all to be a motion to muzzle Siriz, but I understand that she is a little more general. Does this really mean that if an organisation provides assistance for choice, in a certain expression it is too positive about abortion and says that it is an important right, we say that it is contrary to the fact that alternatives are not spoken of in one breath? Does this motion also mean that organisations are no longer allowed to speak positively about abortion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u17	I rather regret the words chosen by Mr Van der Staaij. Looking at my motion and at my input in the general consultation, of course, that is all right; that is also part of the debate. The motion by me and Mrs Tellegen applies to all organisations. The organisations that offer the selection help interviews are not allowed to steer in the conversation or in the expressions surrounding it. We have some clues that that will happen. If this motion is adopted, I hope it will be over. Mr. Chairman. I'm putting the motion back in good hands, because I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many of the very serious abnormalities now detected in the 20week echo, can already be detected in a thirteen-week echo;]] [[Considers that the thirteen-week echo can provide information at an earlier stage on serious structural abnormalities, giving future parents more time to decide whether or not to deliver the pregnancy;]] [[noting that the Health Council in its opinion recommends Prenatal screening to conduct a national scientific study into the program of an echoscopic examination of structural abnormalities around thirteen weeks;]] [[noting that this study shows how the pros and cons of such an early echo relate to each other in Dutch practice;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with the opinion of the Health Council, to launch a national scientific study into the programme of an ultrasound around thirteen weeks of pregnancy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u19	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In particular, the CDA expressed concern at the growing number of problems for women to find a good place to give birth. Obstetricians sometimes have to call several hospitals before they find a good place. We have, of course, expressed our concerns about the consequences of developments with the IJsselmeer hospitals in other consultations. We hear from the region that the hospitals that women could now go to, such as St Jansdal in Harderwijk or the Anthony Hospital in Sneek, are well equipped, that is not the problem, but that it is the question whether they have sufficient capacity to take the extra babies. If further information can be given on this matter, we would appreciate it very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u21	Thank you. As the third speaker from the Chamber, I shall give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u22	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had an extensive and indeed rather spicy debate with each other. As a result of that debate, I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the central information point to be set up for women who are unintentionally pregnant will also refer these women to an organisation capable of providing assistance for choice;]] [[Whereas all choice aid should be independent, of good quality, based on the wishes of women and should not be directing;]] [[Whereas selection support organisations have different missions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the central information point at the point of referral informs the unintentional pregnant woman about the mission and objectives of the selection support organisations and takes into account any preference of the woman concerned for a specific selection assistance organisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u24	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u25	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to table a motion on the development of genetically modified babies in China. That is what we discussed during the general consultation. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, following extensive debate on changing human germination pathways in embryos, a moratorium has been expressed internationally on changing DNA from future generations;]] [[noting that, despite these international agreements, scientists are experimenting with the adaptation of human DNA in embryos, with the most recent development being the birth of two genetically modified babies in China;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the urgent plea of leading scientists, to continue an international moratorium on the use of CRISPR-Cas technology in human embryos,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u26	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the discussion about Siriz. I thought that discussion was rather nasty. At first Siriz's website did not work, then the connection with the VBOK had to pay off and later it was the participation in the Week of Life. Then I think, if the mission is just that the color of the organization isn't right, say so. Then you're gonna fight open-eyed. Now I have the idea that an organization that is getting more and more cornered, while having a great degree of customer satisfaction, is now also being muzzled. I don't think that's right. I think that organization deserves a ribbon instead of such an approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u27	You get a ribbon as a token of merit. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that it is no good to misinform women, give medical fake information and then send a certain direction in informational conversations? As far as I am concerned, this is not a merit. I would like to know how Mr Van der Staaij views this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u28	Siriz's merit is that they have a high degree of client satisfaction and excellent assistance. A lot of nails were searched on low water. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u29	Does Mr Van der Staaij think that an organisation like Fiom, who also has a high customer satisfaction, deserves a ribbon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u30	All organizations that do good work in this area deserve a ribbon. I will not give an exhaustive list of all those who deserve a ribbon. That would be beyond my competence. But the discussion was now very much about Siriz, not because of me but because of you and by others, and I respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u31	Mr Van der Staaij suggests that the debate is not good or that Siriz is not good for us. But does Mr Van der Staaij agree with GroenLinks that facts should be the basis for providing independent choice-help information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u32	Yes, I totally agree with that, and I find that sometimes the facts simply create resistance. Mrs Ellemeet herself mentioned the example of how abortion takes place at a later stage of pregnancy. Those are painful facts, but they are facts. I think it is wrong to blame such an organization. The facts are sometimes difficult to hear in debates on abortion. The fact is that there is a lot of compulsion and urge about abortion. The fact is, there's a lot of grief and pain after an abortion. But that's all a little taboo, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u33	Fact is, Siriz gave me some bad information about how to use the abortion pill. The fact is that Siriz indicated that women have psychological damage to an abortion, something that has been scientifically investigated and which is not true. These are facts about Siriz. Disinformation is given. Women are scared of abortion. It is suggested that abortion is a brutal murder. I'm throwing that far from me. I believe that we should condemn this as a Chamber, and that as a Chamber, from left to right and from conservative to progressive, we should assume independent support for choice. There must certainly be room for organisations with a Christian basis. You don't hear me saying that it shouldn't be, but the starting point must be independent information. This applies to all organisations that receive public funds to carry out this important task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u34	We agree on factual information, but what exactly are these facts? There are organizations of different colors and lots of different colors and they sometimes see different facts. To highlight one point: you can say that there are no problems at all after an abortion and that you should not blow this up. You are right: I also know those studies which deal with the occurrence of certain psychiatric abnormalities or problems following an abortion, also in comparison with previous ones. But that is only a very limited part of reality for me. There are also many women who come to the aid service after an abortion, without a psychiatric diagnosis, because there is a lot of pain and sorrow, even after that. I am very sorry that there is so little attention to this because it does not come out of a particular self-determination agenda. But those are facts, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u35	Mr Van der Staaij is always clear about what he stands for. He's not in favour of abortion. We can read that. He's in the Mars for Life. That's clear. My problem with Siriz is that it says it's independent in the pickup calls. It then makes it clear in all kinds of other expressions that it has a different picture of that. We just talked about that site, where it says that abortion is never a solution and that it doesn't make a woman stronger. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that this is simply not credible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u36	I think that there is a difference between how an organisation goes public in the whole discussion about abortion, which Siriz does, but so do organisations like Fiom and Rutgers; they can also find the law too oppressive or they can have a different opinion on it and the way in which choice aid is specifically designed. It is important that you meet the demands for professional assistance and in such a conversation do not come up intrusive with your own values and standards. It's about getting into the conversation about what help is needed. I do not think it is necessary to muzzle organisations further in their freedom of expression in order to provide good choice assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u37	Another point that the SGP and D66 often disagree on is drugs. Let me give you another example. There is a choice help interview in which you get independent advice and support to get rid of your drug addiction. It happens independently. In addition, one looks at the client. But then the organization has on its website that it is not at all bad to use drugs occasionally and to smoke from time to time. Wouldn't the SGP find that unbelievable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u38	That depends. Imagine that the organisation thinks that the legislation should be broader and different. At the same time, if I am helped with the question I have at the time, I will not search the website for the precise views of the organisation. In that case, too, I can imagine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u39	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Tellegen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u40	Mr President, thank you. We have had a strong debate in principle and in many respects. I should like to touch briefly on three issues here today. First of all, the Prosperous Start program. The VVD is afraid of the risk of looking behind the front door with this programme for a far too large group of women and children. The VVD also considers it important to keep track of whether the program is actually going to generate effect. The VVD is pleased to be kept informed by the Minister on these two points. In addition, the VVD welcomes the Minister's commitment to come forward with a letter on the access criteria of the project Now Not Pregnant. Then there's the much-discussed topic of choice-help conversations. My party believes that the Secretary of State should clarify the criterion of eligibility for funding. In addition to the selection help call itself, the authority must also be neutral and objective in other expressions. That is why I have co-signed Mrs Bergkamp's motion which has just been tabled. The Secretary of State has twice ignored the opinion of the Health Council on prenatal screening, both with regard to the thirteen-week echo and with regard to the consultation. The VVD would like the Secretary of State to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of the thirteen-week echo as the most important measurement moment. Parents get information sooner and have longer time to decide whether or not to continue the pregnancy. That is why I co-signed Mr Bergkamp's motion. The Secretary of State wants to make the counseling meeting a tough condition for parents who want to qualify for prenatal screening. The VVD considers good information to be very important but does not agree with that obligation. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas proper provision of information is important for pregnant women and their partner whether or not to proceed with prenatal screening;]] [[Whereas, in addition to a counseling meeting, there are many other options for pregnant women and their partners to make a well informed and voluntary choice of prenatal screening;]] [[noting that in its opinion Prenatal screening states that the consultation is important, but should not be a condition for participating in the screening;]] [[considers that pregnant women and their partners should also be able to participate in prenatal screening if they have not made use of counseling;]] [[calls on the Government to follow the advice of the Health Council and not to make a counseling discussion a harsh condition for participation in prenatal screening,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tellegen and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u41	In the motion, Mrs Tellegen says that there should no longer be an obligation of counseling to participate in the screening. That was indeed an opinion of the Health Council, but there were two further opinions in the same report, namely to improve counseling in structural ultrasound research, because it remains strongly behind, and to make it a separate consultation, because counseling is now often not given much attention. Why did Mrs Tellegen take out this part of the Health Council and leave the other two parts on the left?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u42	If Mrs. Dik has listened carefully, she has heard that I am embracing the advice of the Health Council. Counseling is incredibly important. No woman with or without a partner is properly informed about prenatal screening. No, counseling is very important. The Secretary of State is happy to accept the opinion of the Health Council on all these points. So I totally agree with you. He's just moving away from the third point. He's a tough condition for prenatal screening that women are having the conversation. I'm just saying that I find that obligation problematic. Many women may proceed to prenatal screening in other ways well informed. So I don't want it as a harsh condition. Hence my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u43	The Secretary of State will be able to comment on what he has said and what he has not said. For me, it is extremely important that we do not take one thing out of the advice of the Health Council because we think it is very important, but that we also look at the other elements brought forward by the Health Council. We need to include that in any follow-up studies, as well as the experiences of doctors and parents. This seems to me to be selective shopping in a report and I do not think that is the intention. I hope Mrs Tellegen doesn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u44	I don't like to bounce the ball back, but in this case I think I have the right to do so. If anyone is shopping selectively, it is you or the Secretary of State. He highlights one aspect of the Health Council and says, "I'm not taking that with me." The Health Council is absolutely saying that screening is important. That's what my party thinks. But we don't see it as a harsh condition. The Secretary of State says: I will not take over because I disagree. So I'm gonna put your reproach next to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u45	Ms Tellegen of the VVD started her speech with Kansrijke Start. Would it not be appropriate to promote a promising start, in particular, for mothers and families with many financial problems, by abolishing their own contribution to maternity care and outpatient obstetrics?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u46	I can't judge that enough here because it's out of my reach. My speech was that I think it is very important that we guide the women and children who need it. My concern is that we make that group too big and that we no longer have a view on the impact of this programme. Hence my repetition of what we exchanged in the AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u47	But for endangered groups, often low-income families, it can be very problematic to cough up their own contribution to maternity care, or to pay their own contribution to outpatient delivery. This is very important, also in the light of the discussion that fewer and fewer hospitals are offering clinical obstetrics and the need for women to give birth in hospitals is increasing. Would it not be wise, then, to look into this and see whether these own contributions can be abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u48	Research is always a good idea, but, as I have said, it is not a bad idea in the direction of Mr Van Gerven, but first of all it is completely unclear to me how large and broad the group of women and children is going to be in the Netherlands, which is being achieved with the programme Kansrijke Start. The Minister has made it very clear that it is customary and that it has to be filled out by municipality. Your question about the reimbursement of costs seems to me to be a relevant question from your party, but I can imagine that this will cost a lot of money. I can't see the implications of that right now. So you can't expect a "yes" from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u49	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u50	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the drop in infant mortality has come to a halt;]] [[considers that the focus on infant mortality should not be weakened and that additional measures are needed;]] [[Whereas a thirteen-week echo may contribute to reducing infant mortality;]] [[calls on the government to introduce the thirteen-week echo standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NIPT test costs €175 for pregnant women;]] [[noting that the Minister for Prenatal Screening applies the mantra "the right to know and the right to not know";]] [[noting that a majority of pregnant women do not opt for the NIPT test;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the reasons for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several parties, including health insurance companies Netherlands and the College Perinatal Care, recommend that the own contribution of €347,81 for pregnant persons who wish to give birth in a birth centre or hospital without medical indication should be cancelled;]] [[considers that financial considerations should not affect the choice of hospital delivery;]] [[considers that the abolition of the own contribution can contribute to reducing infant mortality;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish its own contribution to the outpatient delivery without medical indication and to find the coverage for the 12.5 million euro required in the double declarations for childbirth of 100 to 200 million euros,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-138]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-139]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u51	The first motion is similar to Mrs Bergkamp's motion, but she is asking for an investigation and I would like to introduce a thirteen-week echo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u52	Thank you, that's clear. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u53	Mr President, I have one motion. Let me start with that and then I have some comments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 45 minute standard currently used for acute care is not a scientific standard;]] [[noting that if the scientific standard indicated by the Pregnancy and Birth Steering Committee were to be applied, a mother in distress should be able to reach a hospital with acute obstetrics in 15 minutes;]] [[noting that scientific research shows that arrival after 20 minutes increases the risk of health damage to mother and child and also the risk of death in mother and child;]] [[Calls on the Government to carefully identify existing hospitals in which acute obstetrics should be offered to ensure that a mother in distress can reach the hospital within 20 minutes;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal on how this can be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u54	Mr. Chairman. In a moment, Mrs Ploumen will table another motion to invest the central information point at the Fiom, as the Chamber considers desirable. Now we have received a note from the Secretary of State in which he says he has to tender it; I will summarize it. I think that's a façade, a forgery, and it doesn't have to be. I'm thinking about the Lareb. That is what we are doing. Now we agree with the Lareb to increase this task, for example to do something extra in the field of vaccination. We can just meet with the Lareb. Fiom has been assigned the task of being an independent knowledge centre. We ask Fiom to extend that task to that central information point. They already have an information point. I ask the Secretary of State: what is he doing and what the hell is the problem? I want to ask him something else. It is a particularly sensitive, politicised subject. Does he also want to let common sense prevail over other matters on that point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u55	Thank you. Mr. Van Gerven, would you stand still for a moment? Mrs Ellemeet has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u56	Mr Van Gerven raises an important point on this 45 minute standard. If I am not mistaken, Minister Bruins has already promised at Mrs Agema's request that this should be examined. My question is therefore what exactly is the addition of Mr Van Gerven to that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u57	This goes much further. I am also saying this through the President in the direction of Mrs Agema. For years now, we have been arguing from the SP that driving time from the house to a hospital should be 15 minutes, in line with the standard proposed by the Pregnancy and Birth Steering Group eight years ago. My proposal now goes far beyond what the Minister has promised. I took the 20-minute criterion because scientific research shows that if it takes longer, the risks for mother and child increase. My proposal is to map that. So that goes far beyond the Minister's general commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u58	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u59	Mr. Chairman. During the debate Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks also spoke on behalf of the Labour Party. I have three motions. I shall begin with the motion, Mr Van Gerven, which has already been announced. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that women who are unwantedly pregnant should be able to access an independent central information point for objective information and medical information, where they can be referred to for assistance where necessary;]] [[Whereas Fiom is already the national knowledge centre in the field of unwanted pregnancy;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Fiom can function as a central nationwide information point for unwanted pregnancy, accessible 24/7,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u60	Mr. Chairman. A second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that women should always be able to decide on their own bodies;]] [[Whereas, in the event of unwanted pregnancy, they should be able to be sure of non-directing and medically correct information;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no subsidy for choice aid goes to organisations where it has been established that they are giving medical fake news and sending information to women who have questions, or to organisations legally, financially or administratively linked to bodies that are in any way opposed to abortion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u61	I would like to see the motion I have just read as a further tightening of the motion tabled by colleagues Bergkamp and Tellegen. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a third motion. It's about recovery operations in genital mutilation. D66 has rightly asked questions about this and the VVD believes it is part of an action plan that the government should have in order to strengthen the position of women. That's why this motion. I sincerely hope for broad support. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that genital mutilation is a violation of human rights;]] [[Whereas it is a matter of decency to compensate for recovery operations following genital mutilation;]] [[Considering that the Healthcare Institute is likely to recommend that recovery operations be reimbursed from the Zvw from 2020 onwards;]] [[calls on the Government to reimburse recovery operations after genital mutilation as early as 2019, to find appropriate budget coverage for this purpose and to inform the Chamber of how this can be arranged,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u62	Thank you. I'm looking at the rulers. They'd like to suspend for five minutes, so we'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u63	I'd like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u64	Thank you, Mr President. A number of questions and a number of motions, including my part of the subject matter that has been dealt with in general consultation. First of all, Mrs Bergkamp's question: are there... Sorry, that was Mrs. Van den Berg. If I'm gonna get you mixed up, there's really something going on! The question was whether there are actually enough birth spots in the area of Lelystad. That conversation has, of course, been held continuously in the region over the past week. In the Regional Consultation Acute Healthcare Chain, the ROAZ, it has been indicated by the hospitals that this is indeed the case at the moment. The health insurers concerned, of course, have a duty of care to ensure that they do. Mrs van den Berg says that she also has signs of doubt. Then it is really important that these signals get to the NZa. The NZa has to supervise the health insurance companies whether they comply with the duty of care there. If this type of signal is there, please direct it to the NZa. This, of course, concerns Mr Bruins' portfolio, but the signal that we are getting at the ministry from the region is that there is indeed sufficient capacity at the moment. Then there is Mr Van der Staaij's motion. Mr Van der Staaij is asking for the moratorium, at least as far as we can see and have to believe it, in response to the germ orbital modification that has taken place in China.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u65	That's the motion in part No. 136.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u66	The motion in part No. 136, that's right. I'm saying a few things about that. The first is that there is a ban in the Netherlands. That ban is simply incorporated into the Embryo Act. There is a ban in many countries. In addition, this seems to me to be much more relevant in this case, an international scientific agreement was agreed in December 2015. You could say that this is a moratorium on the clinical application of germ path modification. Nothing for nothing has really distanced all parties in the scientific community from this clinical application, in rather firm terms. They did that because it is not at all certain that it is safe and because no form of checks-and-balances was built in because the university didn't even know about it and the scientific world didn't know about it. So they have taken a rather intense distance from it. If you now ask the government to commit itself to a continuation of the international moratorium, then that is a question of something that already exists, because that international moratorium is de facto applicable. The debate on this is, of course, not subject to a moratorium, quite the contrary. It is precisely as we agreed in the government agreement that we are going to have a social debate on the possibilities but certainly also on the limits of germ-track modification. In short, I would like to discourage the motion as it is now before us for that reason. Then I go on to the question of Mrs Tellegen of the VVD. It was not really so much a question, but she stressed once again that all the activities and all the efforts we are making under the Prosperous Start programme should not apply to the entire target group. I'll share that with her. We also exchanged this in the general consultation, if only because we have to move away from one-size-fits-all and towards a much more risk-oriented approach. That's the way it is. Depending on the type of intervention involved, it is at least a question of using the interventions where this is necessary to do so. There is a very practical reason to do it that way, namely that you have no people at all to do it all over the target group. So you will have to choose very specifically which intervention you use where, because that is always customization. That certainly applies to the program Now Not Pregnant. There is still a very specific group within that Prosperous Start program that you should want to achieve with that. I have indeed promised to send those access criteria to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Agenma on part No. 139. That motion combines some observations and considerations, and then comes to a request. I would like to ask Mrs Agema for an interpretation of her motion so that I can deal with it. The first observation that is made is that the NIP test for pregnant women costs €175. If you read it in such a straight line, you might want to get ahead of the idea that we might have to get rid of that own contribution, that I should consider how it is that not many more women make use of it. Wouldn't that be a reason for your own contribution? I tend to think that those two things are separate from each other, that you might also be interested in the underlying considerations that women have in whether or not they want to make use of them. That seems to me to be a very interesting question in itself, but I would not suggest that we could possibly get rid of that own contribution, because I think that this own contribution stresses what I think is important that participation in screening should be a conscious choice and should not become an automatic one. So if, for example, you delete the first observation, then I think I could get out of my way with the rest of the motion. I am quite prepared to give an idea of what the considerations are to be or not to be involved. We can do it differently. I can also dissuade the motion and then promise you that I will take that question with me in the investigation. I need to see where. There is a TRIDENT study, which is the research setting within which NIPT takes place. Perhaps there is also another study where we could address these questions. I have to look at the exact form, but if Mrs Agema wants to know, I would be happy to co-examine it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u67	I did not jump to conclusions and I do not propose to abolish my own contribution. I didn't mention any cover for that in the motion either. But I do wonder why the majority of women choose not to do the NIP test, when so much information can come out of it. To what extent is that due to the mantra of the right to know and the right to not know? What are the considerations behind this? That's why I'm so curious. I believe that the level of its own contribution can also be a reason for this. If you have to give birth in the hospital and you have your NIP test, you have already lost €500 in your own contribution, and we are not even talking about your own contribution to the maternity care. I do not attach such importance to this €175, but I would like to mention the fact, because it is a fact. But I am not saying that it should be abolished or that there is coverage for it. I asked the government to investigate why the majority of women don't. So the Minister can read the motion in such a way that I do not propose to abolish the own contribution to the NIP test. I'm not asking for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u68	It's complicated to me anyway. We do not have to complete this conversation here, because until the vote we have another week. But I'm gonna ask you to do it like this. The suggestion has been raised in general consultation. This is the VAO, which is actually the conclusion of the general consultation we have had and that is why I really want to be clear. There is no intention, no intention at the cabinet, nor the will to abolish its own contribution to the NIPT, because we believe that it should be a choice of its own. It must be a conscious choice whether or not to use this NIPT. That shouldn't be automatism. That is why we are not going to abolish this own contribution. Of course, this contribution does not apply if there is medical indication, but there is no medical indication in the majority of women. In short, I would not like to give rise to this suggestion in this combination. If Mrs Agema says that she can do so without that observation, because if that were to prove to be a reason, I would appreciate it very much from that investigation. If Mrs Agema is prepared to delete that observation, then the motion of cabinet-wise judgment will be given to the Chamber. If Mrs Agema doesn't, I'll just be clear and dissuade the motion. However, I would like to make a promise to you that I would be happy to give an idea of what the considerations are to be or not to be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u69	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u70	When I find a hole to join, of course I always want to. I am happy to delete that recital if the possibility remains open that pregnant people have the option of indicating that that was the reason as the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u71	Thank you very much. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 140. He asked the cabinet to abolish its own contribution to the outpatient delivery without medical indication and to find the coverage for the 12.5 million in the double claims. I would like to say two things about this. I am going to discourage the motion, but that will not surprise Mrs Agema, given the general consultation we have had. One is, of course, that outpatient births without medical need are low-complex births for which, of course, midwifery care has been financed, but the command site has not been financed. That's what's going on here. It is precisely because of its lack of medical necessity that it is a special figure to want to organise the claim in the Health Insurance Act. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I noticed the cover. I have also heard Mrs Agema say this in general consultation, namely the double declarations. I'm not quite sure what you mean by that. The only thing I know is that there has been a debate on this before, at that time with my predecessor, Mr Schippers, and that it has been noted that there is no such thing as unlawful double declarations, so that a double declaration is made for the same care. In practice, the guidance of the childbirth starts with the midwife, but at some point is taken over by the gynecologist. That indeed means that in one section "one birthing journey" is here; that I would have found a strange word myself, but it says here several professionals can open a dbc and declare on it. Of course you can. It is precisely because of the fact that there are two professionals who want to make a declaration on one delivery journey that this is taken into account in the rate of the NZa. We can't verify anything other than that. We have double-checked at the NZa, but we cannot verify anything other than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u72	Double-checked! Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u73	I think there will be some clarification years later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u74	It's a nice Tuesday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u75	In my opinion, it was always uncertain why many more births were declared than children were born, so thank you for this clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u76	Look, we solved a big mystery on the late night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u77	Well, that's what we know. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u78	To the early night. Then I'll move on to the motion in part number. Mr Van Gerven. It will not be surprising that I reject this motion, also for reasons which I have indicated several times in general consultation. The reason is that Mr Bruins has already promised this in general consultation. This adds nothing to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u79	This is a very sharp detailing of the investigation. Does the Minister hereby declare that what I am asking for in the motion is being examined?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u80	If you wish to go further and explain this motion beyond the commitment made by my colleague, namely that we are going to look again at whether the 45-minute standard has been put into effect in this way, then I would advise against the motion for a resolution for that reason. But I advise her, above all, because we have already said to each other in the AO: this is the rehearsal of a debate that has already been held and has already been concluded in the conclusion that we are going to take another look at that 45-minute standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u81	This motion requires two things. Can you just map it exactly if you're going to take those 20 minutes? That is a scientific standard, which is totally different from those 45 minutes and it goes much and much further. If we read the report of the debate, it appears that the Minister was not prepared to do so at all. Otherwise, he would have kept the Lelystad hospital open, where clinical obstetrics is indispensable. Yet the hospital is simply bankrupted. That is why I tabled this motion. And a second request is to hear how you could implement it. So what's that got to do with it? So that goes far beyond what the Minister promised in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u82	That is, of course, also a reason to discourage the motion. The Minister has promised to take a closer look at this 45-minute standard. Lelystad has indeed been the cause for this. That was the commitment to the Chamber during the debate. What you are doing with this is actually introducing a new standard before that study is completed, before that discussion has been held and before it has been looked into. And you're asking if we could accurately map that new standard. Well, no, because we are investigating the 45 minute standard and also the extent to which it is still an appropriate standard to be used. That is what Mr Bruins said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u83	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u84	I come to the final motion from the Labour Party. Here too, I have the feeling that a debate is repeating itself somewhat, a debate which has not been discussed in the AO Pregnancy and Birth. That debate has been discussed much before, namely in the budgetary procedure. Mr Bruins responded to that at the time. If I remember correctly, he said that there was no obstacle on the part of the cabinet to making it possible. But it's also true that we shouldn't be sitting in the doctor's chair. It is precisely the profession itself that has said that you should also look at experiences in other countries. I believe that these experiences have been in England in particular. That is where we are, in fact, further on, but it is also said there: well, there are also hesitations and uncertainties about effectiveness, there is a lack of scientific evidence and there are also uncertainties about the consequences of the operations. This means that we need to give the profession itself some time to formulate an adequate response to this. Determining whether it is then Zvw-funded and part of the package, is always up to the Zorginitaut. But if the profession says that this is necessary medical care, then I assume that it will also be carried out in accordance with it. However, I do not want to anticipate that. So it is not so much that I would disagree with the motion or anything, or that Mr Bruins would disagree with it, but it is true that we need to do things in the right order. Now the doctors are really first on the move, and then there is the trajectory towards the Zvw and the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u85	I understand that this was not at all a subject in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u86	Not at all, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u87	I see that Mrs Ploumen now wants to ask another question about this. I would just like to briefly allow one more question, and then finish this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u88	Certainly, Mr President, I have only one question. Thank you very much for this opportunity. This is an important subject for the women involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u89	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u90	It's a commitment from Minister Schippers from the previous cabinet, so we've been waiting a long time. There is indeed research from the UK, but there is also research from France. That investigation would once again support my call, if I may put it that way. Can I then ask the Minister if he would undertake to look at that investigation from France and consider it? Perhaps he will be able to make a different assessment of the motion, so that at least the money is already there, should we come to the conclusion with the French that women deserve those recovery operations and that this can also be done responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u91	So much for the short question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u92	The short answer is that I fear that we are going to make it very messy. What we have to do is leave the profession to work. It has been under way for a long time, so that profession must come to a conclusion. I can assume that this conclusion will also be based on all forms of international research. I'll verify that. If there is French research that gives additional insight, I can assume that they will, and I hope so too. But I'll check it out. They must then come to the conclusion that the Healthcare Institute assesses the extent to which the care financed by the Health Insurance Act is concerned. But I can assume so when it comes to medical care. Then it is up to us to settle that. Mr Bruins will keep you informed of the way in which this journey continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u93	Then there's another specific appreciation? Is that a request for arrest?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u94	I advise against this motion. Otherwise, it's gonna get ugly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u95	That's the answer from your side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u96	Sure. In this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u97	In this VAO. We're going to have a lovely evening together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u98	I still had a small afterburner about the motion in part no. 140. I was thinking about it again, but if the number of double births starting at home and ending in the hospital is EUR 200 million because it is paid twice, and you would abolish your own contribution, then there would be more births in the hospital, so that those amounts can be eliminated from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u99	In addition, however, in our quest to see how this has been dealt with in the past, we have not been able to trace that figure of 200 million anywhere. That's not an amount the NZa recognizes. There are two declaring professionals on one course on the way to childbirth, to put it in plastic form. But you can if one starts and the other ends with it. It's possible. Then it becomes a delivery where medical necessity is at issue to give birth in the hospital. At least I'll take that. At the same time, there is no question of an own contribution. But the amount of 200 million is an amount that we cannot reproduce.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u100	Thank you. I'll still go to the Secretary of State. He's got a few more motions open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the motion in part No. 133 of the Bergkamp and Tellegen Members. I can tell from the microphone that my colleague is a little longer than I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u102	You do that spontaneously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u103	That is the motion concerning objective advice in the case of assistance for choice, a much discussed subject in general consultation. I would like to say the following. Over the past period, I have started to improve the quality of choice-help conversations for women who are unintentionally pregnant. That is very important help for women and their partners at a difficult time in their lives. The starting point is a diverse offer of expert and objective assistance and guidance, where the freedom of choice of women is the starting point and the end point. For organisations meeting the new quality requirements, financial security is in the pipeline. In general consultation it became clear that we still needed a final piece for the new set of quality requirements. I see the motion by Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Tellegen as that final part. Although the motion does not contain an additional new requirement for quality, it is based on, among other things, conversations and checks that will take place over the coming period that all organisations receiving this form of funding are consistent in their statements. I read the motion in such a way that any organisation may have ideals and strengthen them in the social debate, as long as the organisation does not unilaterally advocate a single solution. In response to the questions put by Mr Van der Staaij on this subject, I say that this is true of all the organisations that want to be eligible for funding of choice aid. My ideal and purpose as Secretary of State for Health is good, expert and objective help and guidance in unintended pregnancies, with all due regard to the requirements of the Law on Abruption Pregnancy that everyone must meet; with regard to the protection of unborn life and with the freedom of choice of women as the foundation. And of course a diverse offer, so that there is a suitable place to knock for everyone from any background. That is why we have also opted for at least two healthcare providers who offer this help. In recent years, there have been many occasional solutions to this important aid. Today, I believe, we are taking a big step forward in ensuring that this is done properly in the longer term. If I consider this to be the case, I would like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u104	Thank you. It's actually common to only respond to a motion of its own. This is not your motion, and I suspect we are going to repeat this debate, and I did not intend to do so. I'll allow you to ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u105	Fine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand this isn't the use. I wanted to ask the Secretary of State the same question I asked Mrs Bergkamp. I asked her what she thought of the suggestive expressions about abortion that were made on the Week of Life website, co-financed and organized by Siriz. Do I correctly interpret the words of the Secretary of State that he also considers that this mixture is no longer possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u106	In general consultation, in which things were indeed quite intense at times, I explicitly indicated that I could well imagine the uncomfortableness of Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Tellegen on this issue. So I've already agreed that I could imagine that awkwardness. Now, in response to this motion, I say that I am talking to every provider, including the providers that Mrs Ellemeet is referring to, to highlight this matter, to discuss it with each other and to see what the starting position is when we start the new funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u107	In general consultation, it was said that a quality criterion should be added. Now I hear the Secretary of State say: no, there is no quality criterion, but it has to be done. To be honest, I think it's getting a little vague and I don't understand it so well anymore. Is there or is not an additional requirement added?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u108	No, I didn't say explicitly for nothing that, as far as I'm concerned, it's not a new quality requirement. I do not think that is the way it is formulated in the motion. However, I did say that I would like to talk to organisations that would like to benefit from choice help to see if they meet what is in the operative part here. This consists of two parts: the choice aid itself and other expressions. I do not think that this is a question in the light of what we have agreed with each other in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u109	I have one more question about this. The motion is not an effort obligation looking at the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says, "I'm going to talk intrusively." Well, that's what you need as an instrument. It is quite clear in the motion for a resolution 'guarantees'. This is an agreement of results, namely that we should no longer be speaking unilaterally in a single direction. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u110	When I say I'm intrusive with organizations, I mean it. Those checks also include whether these statements are indeed in conformity with the operative part of this motion, if adopted. Those conversations will take place. In order to strengthen these safeguards, I would like to promise the Chamber that I will report the results before the open house construction takes effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u111	I am pleased that the Secretary of State confirms that it is a guarantee that it is a result agreement and that, before it goes live, he reports to the Chamber on the open house construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u113	The Berkkamp/Tellegen motion in part No. 134 is about the thirteen-week echo. In accordance with the advice of the Health Council, the government is invited to launch a national scientific study into the programme of an ultrasound around thirteen weeks of pregnancy. I have already said in general consultation that I am not running away from the thirteen-week echo and that I do not necessarily object to it in principle, but that I do want to know all the ins and outs well before we take the step to actually work with it in practice. That is indeed not in line with the opinion of the Health Council, but a political consideration. In that light, I said that I needed an intermediate step. It can make you tall, it can make you shorter. I want to have the talk with the Health Council, SunMw and RIVM to see what the pluses and minuses are. If there is a scientific research that results in implementation, the result will also be normal that there will be thirteen week echoes before then I would like to do a scan of the pluses and mins; call it a quick scan. Then you can think of questions like: is there enough capacity in the chain at all to implement this? I'd like to do that quickscan and make up my mind after that quickscan. In that light, I would like to ask the authors to hold the motion until I can report back to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u114	Then I'll look at the first petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u115	I'm not gonna hold the motion. I would also like to look at Mrs Tellegen, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to send a letter to the Chamber before the vote, in which he clearly indicates what the aim of the quickscan is, what questions are being asked and when it is ready. Because the letter says that the quickscan would be ready for the summer. In the AO it turned out it would take a year, so I'm quite confused about that, too. I say honestly that there is little chance that we will not allow the motion to be put to the vote, but I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to at least clarify his story about the quickscan for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u116	I like to pick up that glove, hoping that the letter isn't entirely vain hope. I'm assuming the Chamber will take it seriously. The votes on the motions in this VAO will take place next Tuesday, so for next Tuesday the letter will be there. Then the motion to part No. Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen. It's about the central information point. In the operative part, the Government is asked to ensure that the central information point at the point of referral informs the unintentional pregnant woman about mission and objectives etc. I have always said that I am in favour of a diverse offer, of at least two providers. The central information point to be set reassures primarily women, which is the first objective. This information point then outlines where to go for choice help. It is up to the woman to do so, and I think that this is really in line with what the proposers want to do and then choose which providers she is going to go to, if she wants to make use of choice-help calls. I hope that I can read the word 'direction' in the operative part in such a way that it means that the person who picks up the phone outlines the possibilities, so which providers there are. Because redirecting is: I'm sending you to that organization, or to that one. If I may read the motion in this way, and I see at least one, no, two proposers nodding already, then I have no problem with that and leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mr Tellegen and Mr Bergkamp spoke about the counselling meeting. That's what we talked about in the AO: is that an obligation? I understand the proposers. I think we also agree that we do not want to have unnecessary conversations in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands a lot of smart people live, who can also google et cetera. I don't want any unnecessary conversations either. But I want to make sure that there is a check in the process, that every woman who does a screening is well informed about this. So that's about the informed choice. The Health Council also agrees that counseling is of great importance here. I understand that you are having difficulty imposing this as a condition for prenatal screening. If I may give a hand to Mrs Tellegen and Mrs Bergkamp, I would like to inform the Chamber further how this should take shape in practice and what, as far as I am concerned, is customization in counseling. Perhaps we should do so in the very short term. But I would like to back that up a little bit more with regard to this counseling and why you would then want to force it on the basis of customization. If the proposers want to give me that space, I would very much welcome it. To be honest, I don't know if that's gonna happen in a week. Maybe that could take a few weeks longer and that the motion, until I finish that letter, could be held?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u117	I see a benevolent attitude. Mrs. Tellegen is coming forward. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u118	Very benevolent. No, the Health Council says a lot of things, of course. It says: an informed and voluntary choice is of great importance. Direction is not acceptable. Attendance is important, but it is not a condition. We are concerned with the word "condition." Actually, the question of the VVD and D66, and perhaps several Members here in this room, is what you do when a woman just says, "Listen, I'm informed. I don't want to have to jump through that hoop to qualify for prenatal screening." I have difficulty with the fact that a threshold is being set. I want it to be the woman's voluntary choice. In his letter, the Secretary of State simply says that he makes it a tough condition. He repeated that very firmly in the AO once again. Hence this motion. So I would like to believe the Secretary of State on his blue eyes that he is going to explain to me that it is indeed not a condition, because then I am happy. But I do reserve the space for me to still file the motion if it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u119	Yes. If I understand Mrs Tellegen correctly, we can meet for a long time and hopefully even meet. I want to promise that I will write down in a letter how I can imagine this, how to shape it, and whether we can ultimately put it in a way that makes us both happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u120	Would you like to hold the motion or put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u121	No, then I'm willing to wait for that letter and hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u122	At the request of Mrs Tellegen, I propose her motion (32279, No. 137). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u123	I was just about to say at the thirteen-week echo that I can send a letter within a week, but at counseling I don't know if I can necessarily do that within a week. I don't think that's in such a hurry either. If I could report that to the Chamber after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u124	I would like to keep pressure on it, but right at the start of the new political season after Christmas I think it's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u125	Fine. Thank you. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 138 by Mrs Agema. It contains the request for the standard thirteen-week echo. In the light of what I have said about this in connection with the other motion on the thirteen-week echo, it will not be surprising that I am not recommending this motion. Then the motion to part No. Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Ellemeet asked the government to ensure that Fiom would function as a central nationwide information point. In response to this, the following. I sent a letter to the Chamber yesterday on this subject, also in response to questions raised in the AA. It was a very short letter in which I informed the Chamber that several parties could provide the requested services. I have also always said that as far as I am concerned, Fiom is one of the candidates. I don't have an agenda to rule out Fiom either. Maybe it will. But it is simply a fact that there is no market failure and so I cannot grant it to one party through a service of general economic interest. That's just a fact. Mr Van Gerven used some harsh words. He asked me to come to my senses or something. This is just a legal arrangement. It's not legal. It would be unlawful state aid and the Court is looking very critically at all forms of state aid. That's the agenda and that's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u126	Today there was a letter about 18 municipalities in Noord-Holland saying: we are obliged to spend youth care. We're gonna talk about that later. That is simply not true; that is not an obligation. I also ask the Secretary of State to comment on my comparison with the Lareb. That is what we are doing on the basis of resources available to the Empire. As of 2012, we commissioned Fiom to become a knowledge centre, to reject the choice aid, to inform society and also to ensure that society can obtain information there. There is now an enlargement of the Chamber and of the Cabinet: we need to create that central information point. Well, then it's reasonable to invest that job with Fiom, isn't it? I wouldn't know what's fighting it. It's not a purely economic thing either. It's actually more of a care activity if you want to define it. So we just have that space, I'd say. Then why is it a kind of political balance rather than just being done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u127	That last suggestion is far from my point of view. It's really not a political balance. Mrs. Tellegen wanted to believe me on my blue eyes, but they're brownish green. I am sorry, they are not entirely blue, but please believe me when I say that I have no agenda at all. Mr Van Gerven asks what opposes it. That's exactly what I just said, but I can say it again: it can't be done. You say it's a form of concern, and that's what care is all about. Siriz and GGDs cannot be given direct money through the government for choice aid, which is also a form of concern, precisely because of that state aid story. There are forms of financing by the Empire that are allowed directly and to which the State aid test does not apply. For example, we are talking about research tasks or tasks of knowledge institutes. They're okay. The State aid test does not apply to this. For this, I can, and I can't make it any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u128	Finally, Mr Van Gerven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u129	It's just how you describe it. We have that organization. We'll pay for it. It is an independent, objective organisation that has also indicated: "Listen, we are not going to steer. If we get that point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u130	I said short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u131	... then we're going to provide that information to the people and give them proper information."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u132	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u133	There is also a lot of support from the Chamber for that. So I don't understand why that couldn't just happen. In my view, state aid is not at all at issue. We are already investing part of this task at Fiom, but it is now being extended. Fiom already has that job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u134	I give the Secretary of State the opportunity to respond to your comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u135	I am listening very carefully to Mr Van Gerven, but I do not hear a new argument in his last reaction. I don't have a new argument either. Apparently, we don't agree. I'm just saying, based on the state aid test, it can't be done. There's no political agenda underneath. I have also made it very clear that, as far as I am concerned, Fiom will have that task. But we'll have to arrange that on the royal route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u136	The latter is important, because Fiom is a knowledge institute and already performs this task properly. Everyone's happy about it. I think Mr Van Gerven's motion is very sympathetic. I would prefer to vote in favour. But if the Secretary of State states that it is not possible for legal reasons, then I can be difficult for it. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how he's going to retain that knowledge in case Fiom doesn't get that assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u137	In my view, we have set out very clearly the quality criteria to be met. We can well frame that. I do not expect Polish or Romanian providers to do this. Fiom is indeed a knowledge institute, but this task, the information point, is a matter covered by the State aid test. That is why we must follow the royal route. Mrs Tellegen may hold me to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u138	But that could be the outcome...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u139	No, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u140	... thatfiom gets it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u141	That's what the Secretary of State said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u142	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u143	Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u144	If I have understood correctly, a number of years ago Fiom was also given the task of assisting in the adoption of children. This has also been done under the banner of exceptions. Is it not possible to choose the same route for extending the information point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u145	The Ministry's conscience is right here next to me. We are constantly discussing state aid with the Court of Auditors. On the contrary, there will be a very critical assessment of which forms of funding from VWS may or may not be subject to State aid testing. I do not rule out the fact that that task is included in it. So it is being looked at very critically. I cannot answer this very specific question for a moment. Mrs. Ellemeet is asking me over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u146	Then I'll look at Mrs. Ellemeet. Very briefly. You filed the motion, so you can ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u147	I understand that this task has been invested with Fiom and that an exception has been created to the tender. It seems to me to be only logical, to say the least, that we are talking about an extension of a task which is already with them and which is also here. We may be more roomy than the papal, but I think this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u148	I certainly don't want to be accused of that. Let's talk about this. I will inform the Chamber before the vote next week on another subject. Shall we agree that I will briefly write down the why again? This may be partly the same note as you found in your mailbox yesterday or today, but I will make it very clear what the hard limits are and what exceptions are conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u149	Thank you. Then we'll keep the motion in part no. 143 over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u150	Mr. Chairman. There is one more motion: the one in part No. 143. It affects the same subject matter as the motion in part No. 133. In the light of my reaction to that motion, it won't surprise me to detach this motion, but I'll back it up for you. With what the operative part begins, I wholeheartedly agree: no subsidy for choice-help to organisations that provide medical fake news or provide sending information to women. That is what this whole discussion has been about. I think we've secured that well by now. Only, with the second part of the operative part, "organisations which are legally, financially or administratively linked to bodies which in any way oppose abortion," do the proposers ask me to do so. The motion in part No. 133 indicates the clear limits as far as I am concerned. I have also said in response that I am going to talk to the organisations concerned. The motion by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Tellegen does not say anything like 'an organisation must not vote for or against anything in the public debate'. It must be balanced; all sides of the matter must be highlighted. The motion in part No. 143, as far as I am concerned, is out of balance because of that last element. I think that by adopting the motion in part No. 133, on which I have left the judgment to the Chamber, have achieved the balance that I believe we are all aiming for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u151	I think the law indicates what the balance is. That balance is not: spreading fake news to make the point that abortion is not allowed. Abortion is allowed in the Netherlands. I would therefore like to remind the Secretary of State that in this motion we say nothing but: stick to the law. We ask you, Secretary of State, to ensure that organisations that do not comply with the law do not receive government subsidies. That's all we ask. That's gotta be possible, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u152	I think Mrs Ploumen is putting it more rigidly than it says here. I can come up with a lot of motions in which the Chamber asks the government not to support organisations that do not comply with the law, and I believe that these are all unnecessary motions. It says here that an authority that does not need support in such a way. I have in response to the motion in part No. 133 that I am going to have the conversation with organisations that want to benefit from choice support. That conversation will be an intrusive conversation, and it will be with all the stakeholders, not with one, but with all of them. I think Mrs Ploumen is also very much in favour of this. That's gonna be a critical conversation. Of course, I will also talk to these organisations about the question: do you act in accordance with the law? Is it counter empty or under the law? If it's demonstrably counter-empty, we're having a very spicy conversation here, as far as I'm concerned. If I do, however, go for funding, then Mrs Ploumen will call on me. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u153	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u154	This organization has spread medical fake news and has given women directional and wrong information. It has therefore been proved that they are speaking out in a way that I do not think fits within the legal framework. So they can say that, but they can't get a grant. What gives the Secretary of State the confidence that they won't do it again? I don't have that confidence. Every time they step on their feet and they are pointed out by others, and then it disappears from the website. That's not convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u155	I would not like to use the terms used by Mrs Ploumen,'stepping foot' and such. I also said at the AO, in which Mrs Ploumen was not present, that I understand the concerns of the spokesmen. Of course I have faith in it, otherwise I won't be able to handle the conversation. If, as far as I am concerned, these talks are not satisfactory, I will simply inform the Court of Justice clearly and state that this organisation is not eligible for public funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u156	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u157	For the Acts: the amount of 100 to 200 million euros for the double claims I based on a letter from Health Insuranceers Netherlands and one from the College Perinatal Care. They mentioned the numbers of 50,000 and 75,000 double claims. Because childbirth costs €2,000 to €4,000, I come to 100 to 200 million. They also indicate that it is far from all childbirths that start at home and end up in the hospital, and that there is therefore a twilight zone. That's why I'm sticking to my cover. The EUR 12.5 million should be easily financed from these EUR 100 to 200 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u158	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u159	This, of course, screams for a reaction. I'm glad to hear this quote. I think I can place it, too. I believe that Minister Schippers said in your direction at the time: if the chairman of the Dutch health insurance company is worried about double filing claims, then he has the opportunity to do something about it himself, and also to turn to the NZa. Having said that, I think we need to get to the bottom of this. I am going to use this piece of the Acts to dig under my arm in the department until we get one piece together and at least find the answer to this question. This needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u160	There! Look, Mrs. Agema's gonna be so happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u161	I think it would be clarified by the full funding that we are still waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u162	That is not what we are going to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-28.u163	I note that we are going to vote on 11 motions next Tuesday. The motion in part No. 137 is under arrest. This brings us to the end of this VAO Pregnancy and birth. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for five minutes, then we're gonna move on to VAO District Nursing.
