ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u1	I'll see if all the spokesmen are present for the next debate. That's the case. Then we will continue with the debate on the statements made by the Foreign Minister at a closed meeting. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good to be able to have a debate here in the Chamber today on something which has indeed been very much concerned with the situation in the past summer. I would therefore like to use my first term to explain the statements themselves, what I did afterwards and what happened afterwards. It won't surprise anyone that I've been working on this issue a lot over the past summer. I have therefore written to the Chamber in response to questions to the House that the words I used in that closed meeting were partly intended to stimulate it and that I have sought out the sharpness of the discussion for that purpose. But I also wrote that I used illustrations and words that were not only unfortunate but also careless. I shouldn't have done that, not as a foreign minister. So I'm sorry about that. I have apologized for this, and I repeat it here, and I have taken it back. In my speech, I will comment on the specific words that all the questioners also referred to. As soon as these statements became known, I contacted the foreign colleagues in countries that felt or felt hurt, to apologise where that was the issue and to explain the statements. Besides, I've had conversations with people at my ministry. A number of people had sent notes. I had a good talk with the letter writers' representation. After that, of course, I also had good contact with the people who work for me with great enthusiasm, in all kinds of contexts, bigger and smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u3	That was going through the dust at record speed. If I understand correctly, you took back your statements in your first four sentences. You apologized for staying in Pechtold's four hoops. Did you also say, do I understand that you didn't mean what you said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u4	On those words that were careless, I indicated to the press earlier, and I repeat that here, I should not have used them and therefore take them back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u5	Yes, but Mr Pechtold, or the D66 Group, also asked if you indicated that you not only took them back, but that you also said retroactively that you did not really mean it. So the question is whether you not only regret and apologize, but whether you also say: I did not mean that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u6	The words that were careless, and which I also took back, I did not mean them. As I should have said, that is the point I would like to make now. That is the great debate behind it, which was also held in this Chamber this morning, on how to deal with the task of migration and integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr President, then we are done. Congratulations to Mr Pechtold. The minister's been busy for two minutes, and he's already apologized. He's already said he's taking back his statements. He also said that he did not mean Mr Pechtold's statements. There's a politically castrated minister. He went right through the dust. As far as I am concerned, we can now stop this debate, do a short second term and all go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u8	I have said the words I wrote earlier in letters and also exchanged them in conversations with the press, here in this Chamber, because I think this is the logical place to pronounce them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u9	As far as we are concerned, we can continue the debate. The Minister talks about the "words in question." I would like to ask the Minister for the focus of the debate what those "words" are. Which words exactly are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u10	Sure. By the way, I just indicated that I will come back to the precise parts later in my speech. First of all, let me say what I like about the underlying issue, which was also the subject of the debate here. I will then pass on the disputed statements and, if I so wish, enter into the debate with you on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u11	Actually, I'd like to suggest that the Minister move on. You will then have the opportunity to ask questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr President, it does not seem very complicated to me that the Minister should simply briefly state what words he is taking back and what words he is apologizing for. That is important for us to consider how we proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u13	I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u14	Sure. I shall come back to those words, but I would also like to make an explanation. Mr. Chairman. I gave a speech that afternoon and I also brought it out on a subject that really matters to me, namely the fact that the Netherlands is extremely dependent on international cooperation. The Netherlands is a relatively small, very prosperous country that is extremely dependent on cooperation at European level, in the United Nations, in the World Trade Organisation, in all kinds of international contexts, for trade, peace and security and in the interests of human rights. It is incredibly damaging and threatening for the Netherlands and the Netherlands that international cooperation is so under pressure. That's what my speech was about. My speech was about that because this is a very threatening development that came at us at full speed and which indeed affects me personally. So I also see it as my job to do so. I was therefore also at that meeting to name and address this threat with people who work with it daily and to analyse why international cooperation is so under pressure and what the underlying movements in Dutch society, in Europe and in America are. Because if you don't understand the underlying movements, how can you deal with that movement that you so dislike and that can be so damaging? From that point of view, I made that speech. There was then a question-answer session in which, as I indicated, I looked up the edges and sometimes went over them, with the aim that those who know me longer, and there are many in this room, know that I do so more often in a closed environment, not to linger in merely formal terms, but to really taste each other's kidneys. Do we have together on the retina what is actually going on here, in the Netherlands, in Europe and beyond? Do we really dare to ask each other the question: do we understand what's going on? I've acted in a stimulating way with that. I've done that before, but I should have done it differently here at a number of times. In this discussion, the issue of migration and integration was also addressed prominently by the questioners. This is, in addition to the great concern I have about the pressure of international cooperation, an issue which I have been working on intensively throughout my political life. A number of speakers also mentioned this. When I became a Member of Parliament, I took advantage of the offer to adopt a disadvantaged area, as it was called back then. That was the Schilderwijk. I've been walking around there for 12 years very intensively. I've been in touch with the residents' association, the schools, the police. I've learned an incredible amount from that. I have also seen the whole task and the tension that arose at that time about immigration and integration, which are still happening today. This applies to many places in the Netherlands, but I now mention the Schilderwijk, a district where people of more than 100 nationalities live together and from toddler care to the retirement home find their way. There's a lot going well there, but things are going wrong too. A huge task; it was then and it is now. On the one hand, I had fantastic experiences there, for example when I spoke to teachers who taught with great enthusiasm to students who had just come from another country and had to learn the language. I have also spoken to disappointed teachers who said: here came a mother who I used to learn Dutch with a child with whom she speaks Turkish or Moroccan; I have to start from scratch. Both are true. The teachers are committed to it. Neighborhood fathers walked through the streets at night. It's amazing when you walk through your neighborhood with a team of people every night, when other people are in bed, to make sure it stays safe. I have a lot of respect for that. Those were Moroccan neighborhood fathers. They did it because they did suffer more from crime than in other places. These are all examples of how much I have felt involved in this subject from the beginning of my political work, which has indeed been reflected in the parliamentary research into integration, which has been appointed several times. That study was complicated enough by its nature and gave rise to widespread discontent in the Chamber about the way integration policy had been implemented and its results. One of the conclusions was indeed that, despite the criticism of the policies pursued, the integration of many immigrants was wholly or partly successful. So indeed, there is a positive, very positive notion in that, but also the notion "in whole or in part." There are also very critical conclusions about, for example, not recognizing the tension between a welfare state and large-scale migration. It has an extensive chapter on the influence of the countries of origin, which did not even attract much attention at the time, but probably in the current political debate. So there too there is a combination of naming what goes well, trying to analyze how you can make things go well, but also clearly naming where things don't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u15	I would like to thank the Minister for the words he started with. I think these were very equestrian words. It creates clarity. But then the content. The Minister presents here a very fair picture of our own multicultural society. He sketches things that go well, which he himself sat on and looked at in the Schilderswijk. He also sketches things that don't go well. If someone in the discussion in that closed setting had mentioned the Netherlands in the question about examples of successful multicultural societies instead of Suriname or Singapore, what would the minister have said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u16	Earlier in that same meeting, I said that the Netherlands is one of the most beautiful countries in the world to live in. I have always found it a huge privilege to be politically active here. I also said that's a little prickly. I said, you can't get much closer to paradise than the Netherlands, Scandinavian countries or Switzerland. But the essence of it, even at the beginning of my speech, was that we can be incredibly proud of our country. So that also means that I said that we must fight in an international context. In reply to your question: when I say that we can be proud of our country, I mean the country as it is today. This is a country that has, through history, united a great many cultures, peoples and religions, and as a result we are one of the best countries. So we're dealing with that pretty well. At the same time, there has already been a reference to what the coalition agreement says about this, namely that there is indeed tension or feelings of alienation on the one hand, but that this must lead to the conclusion that you are taking action on this and that you are not going to accept it. These are measures on immigration, at the same time allowing the people who rightly call on the Refugee Convention and making sure that they really can find a place. In addition, you should not allow the people who have no grounds to be admitted. Next, you have to pursue a targeted policy. I will deal with this later on in various areas. It's a constant task, though. We must also acknowledge that, in Mr Segers' contribution too, I felt that a lot of people struggle with it and experience tensions in their immediate surroundings, in their neighborhood, in their streets, in their schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you for this answer, but a little more precise: it is true that there are problems and it is true that, in my view, Mr Dijkhoff said that if there is intolerance in such a multicultural society, where values clash and where newcomers think differently about the position of man and woman, about religious freedom or about any value that is dear and dear to us, we cannot be tolerant to intolerance. So I agree. We should not close our eyes to the problems, but the Minister has suggested that nowhere in the world has succeeded in catching newcomers without the original population disappearing. Then the question is how hopeful he is about this society and what his message is for newcomers who say: this rule of law is my rule of law, this freedom is my freedom, I want in and I want in. In the end, is the message a hopeful one: yes, that can be done, that can succeed, and that is what we are putting our shoulders under? Or is it: it was nothing, it's still not much and it won't be that much?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u18	I'm gonna take that particular statement by the head, because you are. That is one of the statements that I should not have said in this way and which I am taking back. The underlying problem is the problem we are talking about: societies such as the Dutch and many others, who are faced with migration or who traditionally have different population compositions, often suffer from this and also tensions. Is that hopeless? No, that is not hopeless, because I would never have been able to begin my speech by saying that the Netherlands is one of the best countries in the world. Is it an automatism? No, not at all, because Mr Segers and I have both signed a government agreement that says at the same time: we are seeing the problems, we are really seeing the feelings of alienation among people and we are also seeing the good examples, the level of education is increasing, and although there is still discrimination in the labour market, progress has also been made. But it demands an incredible amount of effort from the administrators, like us, but certainly also from the people in those neighbourhoods, those schools and all those companies, to be able to be hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u19	Finally, I can only conclude that we find each other in the fact that we should not close our eyes where it goes wrong, where it fails and where it is incredibly complicated to live together in peace, but that we will continue to find each other now in efforts to keep our backs on it, as it is written in the coalition agreement. So there can be nothing but an unambiguous signal to newcomers: yes, you can belong; this is a multicultural society, of which we want to make a success. In a lot of places, that's good. That was my concern and that was the painful thing in the statements. I think that at least that clarity has been created at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u20	It is good to hear that from Mr Segers. At the same time, that coalition agreement says that there is a great challenge for the newcomers, because in a new society you have a lot of challenges to learn and adapt to the language, and also for the society where the newcomers eventually have to find their way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u21	I'm trying to follow the reasoning. It was actually in Minister Blok's letter. You said that you know no examples of a multiethnic, multicultural society that is peaceful, but you meant that it is not self-evident that that society is peaceful, that we should put our backs on it and that there are problems and tensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u22	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u23	That's a long way from each other in terms of excuses. When you say the one thing... It's like a family father says to the children, "I don't know any happy family; it's all misery." That's where he's addressed: "The neighbors are happy." Then he says, "I mean, you guys watch too much TV." That's impossible, isn't it? You can't do that. We all know that there are concerns about the problems and integration here. Then why are you going to say something completely different, which, indeed, is what I say to Segers after this is a very depressing conclusion: "There are no peaceful societies, it's due to the genes and it's not going to work"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u24	My speech began with the whole speech I made with the very hopeful observation that the Netherlands is one of the best countries to live in. I think we can agree on that. It is true that I then used unfortunate words; the words that Mr Asscher is referring to. I shouldn't have done that. This was due to the great concern I have about how we in the Netherlands deal with this immigration, that integration, the tensions that exist here and there and fortunately also the successes that we can achieve. And how do we ensure that we avoid the tensions that are also international, think about what is happening in Italy now and in a whole number of countries of the European Union, which can really disrupt European cooperation? That would be very damaging. Those are very great concerns for me, but that is, once again, no reason not to choose words carefully. However, these underlying issues and those great concerns are still issues that should be at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u25	Finally, when you say: I have not chosen my words carefully, you say that if you have just gone a little too far or if you have said it unhappy. When you say "you're watching TV permanently," a kid like that says, "No, not permanently." But you have said something completely different than you are now saying. So then it's not fancy to say those words are a little careless. That sounds a bit like: what a pity that you take offense now, how sad that you react as angry as I am just trying to stimulate. Those words weren't chosen carelessly, it was just bullshit. It was bullshit. It is a good thing for the Minister to say that it was nonsense and that he should not have said it, not because those words were chosen carelessly, but because he does not think it was. If you're so proud of the Netherlands, you don't think so. If you say "the words were careless," then those words must still be somewhat close to what you really wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u26	That is why I have said more than that those words were chosen carelessly. I have just had that conversation with Mr Segers. I said I shouldn't have used them, so I'm taking them back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u27	I think this is an important part of the debate. The Minister first made a statement on what he meant to say. In that speech you can have nuances, but in general this is the image we have of today's society: things are going well and things are going wrong. Then he says: I wanted to focus the discussion at that meeting. I get that, too, but what I still don't get is that that's gonna focus... Look, for example, the color is dark grey and you're yelling: it's very grey/black. But this is where the Minister turns black on white, so to speak. He is no longer talking to the Minister about a good or non-functioning society and how we can do it better. In the statements the Minister from Suriname, I repeat: Suriname was a failed state, that is because it is a multiethnic society, multiethnicity never works because that is genetically determined. That is a reasoning, and that is more than a slight tightening of an opinion. I do need to hear from the Minister whether this is a reasoning based on what he thinks, so to speak, ideologically, that there is a genetic cause that leads to the inability to function in a multicultural society, and that he says afterwards: I should not have said so. No hard feelings, but the other one is: I don't really think so. I think the Chamber is entitled to know that. Does the Minister think that there is indeed, in the end, some sort of insoluble genetic problem that does not work for multicultural society, or is it not? Did he say anything else? For me, that is the essence of the question before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u28	That statement about the genes is also a statement I shouldn't have made. There are all kinds of scientists doing research into why people organise themselves in groups, tribal associations and nationalities. I have to leave that debate with the scientists, because a debate on genes brings with it all kinds of connotations that I as a politician must stay far from. I have to leave it to biologists; I shouldn't do it as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u29	I want to keep us from going around the questions. The Minister says again: I should not have said it; I should have left the debate to scientists. But we politicians work from an ideology. You know mine. The ideology the minister uses here, you may have, but it's not just something you say to stimulate. Because then you might say: the multicultural society works even worse than we think. That's exciting. Here keep the story that we are working to make it better because we want a well-functioning society and say that this is never going to work and that this is genetically determined. Those are two so totally different points of the debate, which simply say'mwah, I shouldn't have said it; I take it back' really raises the question of what the Minister wanted to do there. 'Cause that wouldn't have been an incentive. That was saying something completely twisted, which you yourself do not yet know exactly why you said it. I think that clarity is the least we can ask here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr Buma is now asking for ideology. My ideology, and I believe that we are wearing this broad concept, is that people who are in the Netherlands must be able to develop, participate, not be discriminated against and should be able to enjoy all the good that this country has to offer. The debate, both in this Chamber and here today, is about how can we ensure that we manage that, where it is under pressure? But the ideological goal is that people can function equally and optimally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u31	Finally, because I still don't know if we're talking past each other after all. The Minister said something there. Just as good friends, but he has given quite a fundamental view that determines your view of the world. Here he says: we want society to function properly. There he says: it can never be, because it is genetically determined that it fails. For me, then, the question is what can we achieve together. That's not such a crazy question, is it? So there are two possibilities. Or the Minister said something there that he didn't mean at all afterwards, which he doesn't think is true, and what is also nonsense, I mean: you can discuss this, but I think it's quite a bold statement, and he can say that. Or he found it, but he shouldn't have said it like that in public. Those are two tastes that are quite relevant to know what kind of foreign minister we are dealing with. Not about one thing or another, but that's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u32	I indicated that I should not have made the decision on genetic anchoring. I'll take it back, because that's a subject I have to leave to scientists. I have not established any relationship with any ideological debate. The ideological debate on where I want to go with society, I am also here with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u33	I'd like to get through this anyway. This is at the heart of the debate. In the letters it has often been said "I should not have chosen those words like this." Oh, boy. The question before us is the following. The Minister has built up the argument that cultures cannot actually live together peacefully and that this is genetically determined; you always find the same people with whom you can find it a bit to maintain your village. Does the Minister really think so or not? And he's not getting away with it right now by saying he should leave it to scientists. That's what he should've said back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u34	If I take words back, I'm not gonna find them either. So that goes for these words, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u35	Clear. So this minister says: I don't believe it's genetically determined that it's impossible for different cultures to live together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u36	I believe that we should leave statements based on 'whether genes or not' to scientists. If I'm gonna say whether I believe it or not, I'm gonna do all kinds of people doing good research, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u37	Generally speaking, the thesis is that you don't talk about things you don't know about, but once you've talked about them, a reality has been created. I think we went the right way. I just wanted to ask for confirmation. It is relevant to many parties in this Chamber. Are you saying that you do not see any relationship between genes and the answer to the question of whether people are able to live peacefully and cooperate with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u38	I don't see that relationship, because I'm not investigating it. I'm a politician, and I shouldn't have made that connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u39	You made that connection, I'd like to tell the Minister. That link has been established. No one's done that around here. This Minister himself has done so. And now you're being asked from the Chamber how you look at that. It wouldn't have occurred to us to ask that question. You yourself raised that question. And then we ask: do you really believe that there is a relationship between genes on the one hand and the possibility for cultures and people to live peacefully together and work together on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u40	I have indicated that I should not have used these words and that it is not a matter of belief, but that I should leave this to people who do good research, whether they are psychologists or sociologists or biologists, to the ways in which people organise themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u41	Finally, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u42	The question has been asked a few times now, so I'm gonna finish this. We are going to deal with a number of more specific issues during the Minister's reply. I hope he'll be a little more egalitarian and say a little more clearly what he thinks and what he doesn't. A reality has been created by this minister and he will have to distance himself from it. He's not gonna get away with this by saying, "I shouldn't interfere with that." He should've thought about that before. He already has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u43	This is indeed a circular reasoning: we come back to the same thing every time. However, I would like to ask the Minister a very specific question: does he think it is crazy that Wilders has indicated that Blok can join him on the list? And does he think it's crazy that the Democracy Forum gave him a member's pass in response to his statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u44	I respect every contribution to today's debate. And you are now referring to two contributions to the debate that I have listened to with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u45	It is true that the Minister should not be surprised at the fact that these two parties are calling on this minister to become a candidate for their parties, when we know what the ideas of those parties are. Let's get back to that multicultural society. I think I can keep a list of what the Minister apologizes for and what words he takes back. So we started that exercise. But when it comes to this multicultural society, I notice that he creates a contradiction between a neighbourhood like Benoordenhout and a district like the Schilderswijk. In Benoordenhout there is one Turkish bakery and that is fine, but if you live in the middle of the Schilderswijk, you will suffer from a number of side effects. That's a literal quote: "some side effects." I would like to ask the Minister: mention some of these side effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u46	I have mentioned two very recognizable Hague districts, which I happen to know well, both of which reflect what, for example, the Scientific Council for Government Policy writes about integration. There are certainly tensions in this area. I quote the WRR literally: "By the presence of many different migrants, the established population can experience alienation. For example, many people with a Dutch background feel that they are losing power and control to newcomers. They no longer feel at home in their Netherlands." I have made this very plastic by calling it two districts, but it is an observation that the Scientific Council for Government Policy does in its own way. Others also referred to this in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u47	Well, I recognize that feeling of alienation. The feeling of alienation does not only exist among the residents of 50 years or thirty years ago of neighbourhoods like the Schilderswijk. That feeling also exists with the people who currently live in the Schilderswijk. They also suffer from a number of cases that occur more frequently in their neighborhood than in other neighborhoods. But the Minister is specifically talking about "a number of side effects" and I think that the Minister is now really naming an important main effect. So I'd really like to ask the Minister the following. He says: "If you live in Benoordenhout, it is very nice to go to the Turkish bakery on Sunday. You don't have any side effects either. But if you live in the middle of it, it's really bothering you." So I'm really curious what the Foreign Minister means by "some side effects."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u48	As the WRR describes them: part of the population may experience alienation and get the feeling of losing power and control. The WRR also says: "In neighbourhoods where diversity by origin is high, residents judge neighbourhood relations as less cohesive, residents feel less at home and also feel more unsafe." That is a more scientific formulation of what I have described rather plastically by simply calling two districts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u49	Finally, on this point. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u50	I would like to say that the Minister has really had time all summer to think about this. But I find these kinds of answers lean. That promises something for the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr President, I do not often experience that a report by the WRR is qualified as insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u53	I would like to explain the specific aspects, some of which have already happened in the event of interruption. When it comes to preventing the peaceful multicultural society, I have just pointed out to Mr Segers that I should have chosen the words more carefully and that I was concerned with the tensions that lie behind it, as we have just discussed them in detail, but that it is then the task to deal with them. I have indicated that I feel very familiar with the direction of the coalition agreement there and which has now been further developed in several letters of government to this Chamber. It also states how, for example, along the line of integration, along the line of language requirements, but also along the line of tackling discrimination in the labour market, we should ensure that problems are addressed. Mr Segers specifically asked me if the Netherlands would be an example of a successful society. I have already referred to the way in which I went into that at the beginning of my speech on that day in July. On this subject, in addition to the quotes I have just quoted from, for example, the Scientific Council for Government Policy, we find in investigations but also in all kinds of contacts we have every day, fortunately, hard indications that much is going well. The level of education of many migrants is increasing, educational performance is rising and a large majority of Dutch people realise that a continuous commitment to integration of immigrants is needed. This is not self-evident, but the commitment that is needed for this is widely shared. When it comes to the statement that I would deal pragmatically with xenophobia: xenophobia is, unfortunately, widely represented and is always reprehensible. In the Netherlands, in Europe, we are actually all over the world, at the same time, with these constant, often subterranean, sometimes too manifest, expressions of fear of foreigners. It is therefore our task to make it clear where it is and to tackle it, along the whole range of instruments as I have just mentioned: through education, through the labour market and through immigration and integration policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u54	I would really like to know how you are going to proceed with your reply. I want to see if it's possible to still...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u55	... finalize!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u56	No, to give the Minister the opportunity to answer some of the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u57	Sure. Does that mean that Mr. Asscher...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u58	Don't look at Mr. Asscher, look at me. I actually want to know if you can just continue answering some questions. Then Mr Asscher will also have the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u59	Of course, I was in the section "the end of the various statements" because the Chamber had asked for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u60	Well, then I'd like to suggest that the Minister does that for a moment. Otherwise, there will be an interruption after each sentence. I actually think that the first-term questions should be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u61	Of course, I agree with you very much. Even if I didn't agree with you, that's what you're talking about. But I wanted to ask a question about the precision part. The Minister said: I'm going to say a few things in general; then I'm going to go right past those statements. And I had a question about that now. I'm afraid if I can't ask that question right now, we're gonna say: we've had that precision part by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u62	No, I'm keeping an eye out for you to really ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u63	I think it would be nice for Minister Blok to hear the question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u64	No, Mr. Asscher, I really want to suggest that the Minister should answer a few questions. You will really have the opportunity to ask your questions. I will see to it that those questions are answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u65	But you don't know my question, so how can you pay attention to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u66	I say that you will be able to ask your question later and I will see to it that an answer is given. I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u67	I have just gone into Mr Buma in detail on the statement on genetic anchoring. For mentioning a number of specific countries, I should have chosen my words more carefully in a number of cases, specifically Suriname. Mr. Chairman. I am now at the end of the block of specific statements and move on to the block of effects on international relations. I think it would be useful to highlight that point for your classification of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u68	Yes. This is also inviting to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u69	I hear the Minister repeating: I have chosen my words carelessly. The problem is that there's a reasoning behind it that's not right. That fits exactly with Buma's question: if you explain the state of Suriname from ethnicity, you go in the wrong direction. If that's what you think, you should say that, but then we have a completely different problem. If you say the Netherlands is not a peaceful society, you don't know the country. Then don't say, "I've chosen my words carelessly." Those words were wrong and wrong and then you really take them back. I thought that happened in the first part and that the Minister said: I take those words back. But then you shouldn't say after that: I still think it is, but my words were chosen carelessly. So my question to the Minister is: what does he really think? Can he really take those words back? Then I don't need to hear anymore that it was careless; that's the least of the problems. The problem was the content of what he said and not the wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u70	I indicated that the words of a number of statements had been chosen carelessly. There was also a part of the speech that Mr Van der Staaij even said he thought it was nuanced. But from a number of statements that I am now walking along now too, I admit that they were careless. I shouldn't have done that, so I'm taking it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u71	Please continue. Oh, no, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u72	So it is not about the wording, but you take back the verdict yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u73	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u74	Please continue. Oh, no, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u75	In the block of specific statements, the Minister also explained what he meant by "pragmatic about xenophobia." Is it not important in his view of the task as Foreign Minister that he should be very fundamental in the fight against xenophobia?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u76	Sure. That's why I just indicated that "pragmatism" was an incorrect phrase. Xenophobia is unfortunately widespread nowadays, along national borders, along religious borders, in tribal associations. Because it's so ubiquitous these days, we have to be on top of it. Those are the words I just spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u77	In that sense, these statements are therefore also careless and are also taken back. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he thinks that the statements he made at the time, at that meeting, may have caused xenophobia to continue. Does he recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u78	That's speculation. A huge social debate has begun. That is why I began my speech today by saying that it is a good thing that we are having the debate here. What exactly are the lasting effects of that debate? I can well estimate that the debate illustrates once again how much this lives in the Netherlands and, therefore, how much the task for the government and society is to deal with immigration and integration carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u79	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u80	That is not speculating at all, because it happens in society. I believe that the Minister has encouraged this further. In addition, the Minister himself stated in a later statement that his words should never be a licence for racism, xenophobia and discrimination. I think it's odd that the Minister's taking it off now as speculation. Then the Minister will be able to admit that his words have caused xenophobia to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u81	I can't answer yes or no. That's a speculative suggestion. There are sometimes investigations into xenophobia about foreigners. I don't have an investigation before and after this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u82	We keep hearing that he shouldn't have used those words. But he used them. And that is why I still have a question when it comes to what the Minister means by 'I am afraid of xenophobia'. I just don't understand what he meant in that context. I know what he's saying right now, but I just don't understand why he said that and what he means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u83	What I meant was what I'm saying now, that it's ubiquitous, unfortunately, sometimes under the skin, sometimes even violent. And because it is, and because it is incredibly harmful and reprehensible, we have to name it and address it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr President, that is what Mr Blok is saying. If we go back to what he said those days, luckily we have the whole transcript, he says: I am very pragmatic about this when it comes to xenophobia. Then there will be no list of what we all have to do to fight that, but here we are talking about: I do not know any countries that are multi-ethnic and where there is peaceful coexistence. Then you can say, that was a slip of the tongue, but he also says: I put it on my ministry, I asked the officials if they know any examples of it and I didn't get anything back. Well, then, apparently, it's been thought about. Otherwise, you don't ask your ministry and the officials who work there if they know any examples of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u85	The question put by Mr Klaver in the previous interruption was: what would you have liked to say about xenophobia? That's the answer I just gave. Now Mr Klaver asks about my statement 'I put that out among my officials'. I also indicated in the letter to the Chamber that I also had this debate with my officials without formally postponing it. You can really turn off a question and ask for a note or a study. It is a discussion I had with officials because, not only in that room in July, but also at all kinds of European meetings, of course, I am very often dealing with these issues concerning the refugee issue and the integration issue. They are both at the top of the European agenda in a very profound way, just as they are in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u86	Then I really don't understand the Minister anymore. So the Minister states, on previous questions from all of us here: no, there are indeed societies where there is peaceful coexistence, which is very difficult, but they do exist. Then he says: I have had this debate for a long time, because I see how difficult that is, so have I asked my officials, do you know those societies? And there too, the answer is: I don't know it. That's what we get from the transcript, that's what we get from the letters. And that's why I come back to the question I started with. The Minister says that he is pragmatic when it comes to xenophobia, that he looks pragmatically at it. I do not see in any argument that he has kept, except now here, that he says we have to deal with it. The conclusion is that people cannot live together peacefully. And apparently he's turned that question off before. So why can you insist that you're not doing that and that you do think that people can live together peacefully? If that's what you think, why would you turn that question off?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr President, I did not say that I am not working on it. I have just indicated that I have actually spent my entire political career, in different roles and functions, dealing with the issues of immigration and integration. That I have had this discussion many times, along all kinds of lines. It's important enough for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u88	Your last question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u89	In reply to the specific question 'have you set this out', I have not formally deported it as a minister can deport a question 'if you would like to send me a note, would you like to outsource an investigation'. I did have this discussion with my officials because I often deal with my officials, especially at European level, how we deal with immigration and integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u90	Mr President, I will conclude and I will not ask a question, because I will get the same answer again. There's a huge inconsistency in what the minister says here. He says first, at the beginning of this debate: of course there are societies in which there is peaceful coexistence. He even talks about the example of the Netherlands. He then says that he has discussed the question "there are peaceful societies" with his officials much earlier. And the conclusion of those conversations was, that we were able to read, that in the end there was no answer. The Minister contradicts himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u91	No answer has been given because no formal question has been put. They were discussion meetings where you start looking together for "what are the causes, what are the answers."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u92	It was useful that we were sent transcripts, because it was precisely on this issue that I noticed that he linked the question of someone from the UNHCR, the United Nations refugee organisation, to xenophobia. We certainly have to recognise that there may be xenophobia, but does the Minister agree that there is a very legitimate concern about the consequences of large numbers of refugees in this kind of discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u93	Sure, there's that concern. Acknowledging that concern is our task and, again, it is also done in the scientific studies that you and I have quoted. We must not deny what a lot of people live in and what their daily reality is. That should then fall down into measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u94	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u95	Understandably, much of the question has been raised as to what effect these statements have on my functioning as Foreign Minister. For that it is good to compare my experiences before these statements came out and the experiences afterwards. In the months before these statements, I was able to carry out a number of important fine projects with the people of Foreign Affairs with a full agenda, here in the Chamber and abroad. The UN Security Council is of course very important. Fortunately, we have been able to achieve a number of concrete results there, for example a sanctioning regime for smugglers of human beings in Libya, for example a resolution to ban hunger as a weapon of war, for example a visit by the Security Council to Myanmar to show the world how distressing the situation is and, for example, calling for support from the Security Council for the investigation of the MH17. In addition, I have been able to make a large number of international visits: to the United States, Russia, many Member States in the European Union and North Africa. Furthermore, I have been able to visit the Caribbean Netherlands and, as a result, fortunately, I have been able to make an agreement on an end to the blockade by Venezuela of traffic with the Caribbean Netherlands. I am extremely proud of the people who have done that job with me those months. After the statements, I myself immediately contacted countries that were hurt or might feel hurt. That's exactly what I did those first days. In addition, Mr Van der Staaij pointed out that eight weeks have passed, and I have also done a great deal of my usual work. Some of them have also come out. We have succeeded in reaching an agreement with Turkey on the restoration of diplomatic relations. I had an intrusive conversation about the Brexit with my English colleague. Last week I had an extensive informal European Foreign Affairs Council where I also spoke to the ministers of a number of countries that were at that meeting. It is my view that the situation with Suriname is more complicated, but in all honesty: that was it already. As regrettable as it may be, before this happened, we did not already have an ambassador in Suriname because it was not accepted by Suriname. Suriname has not accepted the apology and refuses my commitment to keep the conversation with Suriname open. I cannot say what I am talking about in a conversation with a colleague, but I can summarize it in broad terms as an attitude that, I think, many people have. If you make a mistake, you admit it. You apologize, and where there's damage, you fix it. The other party will then generally say: where people work, mistakes are made. A minister should weigh that more heavily, but where people work, mistakes are made. If you admit it and fix it, we'll get back to work. That's actually the experience I've had since then. Since then, I have really spoken to dozens of colleagues in all kinds of contexts. When I look at the next few weeks, my schedule is packed again and no appointments have been cancelled or cancelled. It is my own assessment that this way the way forward is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u96	Indeed, I think everyone here in the Chamber recognizes that mistakes are made where work is being done. But it is also, of course, about credibility in this case. In my contribution to Mr Blok, I asked how he looked at that himself. Six months ago, we stood here and had to resign the former Foreign Minister. He used the wording that the Foreign Minister should be relieved of any doubt. How does Mr Blok view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u97	Sure. Those are true words, but he did not say: a foreign minister or another minister can never make a mistake. If that were the demand, we would never find a minister again. That is why I indicated that at least I am so in life that it weighs more heavily when a minister makes a mistake than someone else does, but that if you make a mistake, it is your job to admit it and repair the damage where that is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u98	Now, I think you've called Suriname 37 times, if I understand correctly. Do you now have the idea that the doubt has been removed there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u99	I haven't called Suriname 37 times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u100	But do you have the idea that the doubt was removed there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u101	I indicated, but that's public, that Suriname has explicitly indicated not to accept the apology. I have also indicated to you that I have approached other colleagues. To be honest, that was always once. I believe that confusion arises from the fact that there has been a WOB request in which official e-mails are counted. But because it always takes a while in the holiday time before you have a phone appointment, there are often many emails around one appointment. Suriname has received a letter from me and has reacted negatively to it. From the other countries, I have outlined to you what the reaction was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u102	On the one hand, I hear Mr Blok say that he supports Mr Zijlstra's words, namely 'a foreign minister must be relieved of any doubt'. And at the same time, he can't make it clear here in the Chamber that he is now. So it's not solved. I have no choice but to observe, and I think that I shall be mild in saying that it is doubtful, to say the least, whether the Minister has managed to restore his credibility over the past period and to remove that doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u103	I have outlined to Mrs Marijnissen the reaction of the ministers I have been in contact with. I have outlined to Mrs Marijnissen the large number of meetings and meetings I have had over the past week. A large part of it has also been in the publicity. And I have outlined to Mrs Marijnissen that the agenda for the next week is packed again and that no appointments have been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u105	I thank the Minister for the answers so far. In the second term, I will consider the total number of questions I have asked and the answers to them. I think it is important at the moment to be able to see how the work of the Minister now works. He shows no difference in how his colleagues react to him between before his statements and after his statements, except Suriname, and that will not have got any better, I just say in my words. Colleagues, especially diplomats and foreign ministers, will be very courteous in how they behave. One of the issues that I am deeply concerned about is the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is also Minister for European Affairs, 'I do not see it happening that we are going to have a fairer distribution system across Europe for refugees'. That really puts the Netherlands at a great distance. Countries such as Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands benefit from having humane reception for genuine refugees in Europe and sharing them fairly. If you actually throw the towel in the ring, I can already see the Orbans of this world thinking: fine, nothing happens there anymore. How is the Minister going to put this part of his policy, which concerns the entire Chamber, from left to right, back into credibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u106	Mr. Chairman. I understand the question, because this European approach is an extremely important point. That is why the Eastern European ministers were at the top of my call list. As Mr Pechtold knows, there was already no agreement with the Eastern European countries on the distribution of refugees. This applies at all to tackling migration. And it is the full commitment of the cabinet and of me to reach these European agreements, because this whole process of migration can only be done at European level, i.e. from tackling the causes in the countries of origin, and trafficking in human beings, through border control and making up for a distinction between people who rightly claim refugee status and those who do not do so, until they then properly divide and integrate people. This can only be done at European level; that is the only way. That was all the more reason to go straight to these countries and say: I should not have said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u107	Yes, but unlike the incredibly essential things like genes and how populations deal with each other, this is just about a negotiating position. If you say in the semi-public that you don't think it's gonna work out, well, then you know in negotiations that the other one isn't gonna make a big deal about it anymore. This, while the Netherlands should be at the forefront of saying: we do our part, Eastern Europe, do your part, and otherwise it is not the European community we work in. We have agreements about a lot of things, but this is also one. As an example, I'm just worried about that. For the words that have arrived in the Netherlands have been apologized, we have taken them back and they are not meant. I'll give my opinion on that in a moment. But I would also like to look at the effectiveness of the Minister who is instantly back at a table with the 28 after the Brexit with the 27. Does that mean he can still be effective? This is with the support of his officials; we are going to talk about this in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u108	We agree that this discussion has not been easy. The fact that these statements were observed there was therefore also a reason for me to make that contact. It is not the case that the debate on migration and distribution has suddenly ended and that it takes place only in words. For example, it is very important that the European Commission's proposal for the new financial arrangements also links financial benefits to participation in migration agreements and reception of refugees. That is a point on which I have already indicated in a letter to the Chamber that this is the Dutch Government's full commitment. This is the type of agreement that all countries will eventually have to sign. Financial flows from the European Union weigh heavily everywhere, but certainly also in Eastern Europe. So there is this instrument, but we also need to form broader coalitions. We know, for example, that a large number of countries around us, like the Netherlands, will be receiving relatively many migrants, together with us, to engage in that conversation with those Eastern European countries. So continuing to form these coalitions remains my full commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u109	When it comes to effectiveness, I understand that the Minister says: I can still work effectively because no agreements have been cancelled and I have not really noticed much about them in the contacts I have with ministers. Those are diplomats! They express themselves carefully. They do not simply cancel diplomatic relations with the Netherlands. But it is about the effectiveness of this minister in these contacts. A question I asked did not concern the countries with which this minister fought, but the major capitals, such as Paris, Berlin and London. What has the Minister heard from his embassy network about how we are being looked at in these capitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u110	I have spoken with fellow ministers from all these cities themselves, and there has been no mention of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u111	I would still like the Minister to give an answer to the question that is being asked. I did not ask if he himself had spoken to ministers; he has already given that answer. I am concerned with the observation of our diplomats in all these countries. How is Dutch diplomacy currently being looked at in these countries? That's the question I asked. I didn't ask about the talks the minister had.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u112	It seemed relevant to me to indicate what my own contacts were, but also from my embassies I do not get the signal that relations with these countries would now be disturbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u113	Carry on, unless... Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u114	These are very few words. So it's not disturbed. I would just like to have some coloring about the way those countries are looking at us right now. That is all the more relevant, especially for European decision-making, because it is important how we can adapt to it. I understand what the cabinet wants, but there's someone sitting there at the table who's got his cards checked out and said: yes, sorry, but I don't think it's gonna happen. I cannot imagine that nothing really came back from, for example, Berlin or Paris when it came to this issue. To be perfectly honest, it's hard for me to imagine that nothing has come back to this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u115	Now I'm telling you what conversations I'm having with the ministers myself, and I'm telling you that I don't hear from my embassies that this leads to disruption of relations. I just don't have any other information for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u116	In fact, the key question is: does the Minister think he can act crediblely on his portfolio?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u117	I have indicated that I have been working in dozens of contacts with fellow ministers for weeks since the statements came out and have also reached agreement. That's come out a lot, too. That effective action has therefore been unfolding over the last few weeks. When I look at the agenda for the next few weeks, that agenda is still packed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u118	So, in fact, the conclusion of this minister, unlike his predecessor, who felt that he could not act crediblely as Foreign Minister, is that he can just continue after he has made these statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u119	I have indicated that I have not noticed in the last few weeks, other than in the conversations I made myself after making the statements, that this is being followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u120	I see the Minister is actually done answering the questions. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u121	I did have a few more questions. One is to get it really sharp, because I thought the minister just went on dangerous ice. So nothing has come back from the major European capitals that indicates that the relationship with the Netherlands is going to be more complicated and that the action of this minister is therefore being looked at with great doubt? Nothing's come back to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u122	This didn't come back to me, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u123	That has just been said. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u124	Mr President, I know that, but this is so important that I really wanted to be sure. Then I had a question of a very different order. It is also about the functioning of the Ministry. At the very beginning, the Minister said: the officials I am allowed to work with every day have indicated that there has been great noise. In what way is the Minister going to restore his relationship with the device?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u125	I indicated that I immediately entered into a discussion with the authors of the letter, who dealt with the desirability and the additional step to be taken in the foreign affairs field when it comes to a diverse organisation. I have indicated to them that I agree with this and that it is not a new subject for me either. I gave it earlier in my speech to Mr Oomen-Ruijten because, in my previous role as Minister of Security and Justice, I have had a passionate debate with your Chamber on the importance of a diverse police force. Whether it is a police force or a ministry: a ministry must, of course, reflect the composition of society as much as reasonably possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u126	The letter, of course, was about the composition of the ministry, but there was also a fundamental criticism about how this minister looks at, for example, how you deal with cultures, what diplomacy means, whether this minister has it in his fingers and lived through what it means to be in conversation with other cultures and to stay in order to achieve peaceful cooperation and to live together. In what way is he going to convince his officials?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u127	Not only have I had that conversation, I have already indicated that I have had quite a few other conversations since then. And I am very close to officials at home and abroad on a daily basis. She and I will, of course, be in constant contact with all kinds of cultures, with the aim of peaceful cooperation. I am afraid that I sometimes stand here in this Chamber as part of an Article 100 letter, but the main effort is always peaceful cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr. Klaver, last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u129	Yeah, last comment. The question is how to ensure that, even when it comes to the officials and the entire minister's ministry, there is confidence. You will notice here in the Chamber that this minister has been damaged, to say the least. You will notice that there is very little trust among the officials. You can see the effects it's had in other countries. This combination of factors is important for the weighting of whether this minister can still function effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u130	Sure. That is why I immediately started that conversation and do so every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr President, I have two more questions. The first question is about the Minister saying that it is appreciated if you make a mistake, that acknowledges, apologize and correct it quickly. But why, at least, did things go very differently in the direction of the Chamber? Because in the first reaction at Zembla it was said that it was a closed meeting, which could happen to the public unhappy. That's actually kind of the argument that Dijkhoff started with. Then 18 July: I regret that I have offended. That's the one about "what a shame you got mad." The next day, July 19: yes, but it was meant to stimulate. On August 17: that it was unfortunate and careless, I'm sorry. Here today: I take it back and I'm sorry. Can the Minister indicate that, as soon as he started calling Poland and the Czech Republic, he who apparently needed eight weeks to acknowledge his mistake here too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u132	Mr. Chairman. On the day I came out, I indicated that although it was a closed meeting, I should have chosen my words carefully in a closed meeting. I immediately answered the questions that Mrs Ploumen asked me at the time. I also replied to the press, stating that I apologized. Then there were follow-up questions, which, of course, do not receive exactly the same answer as the previous questions, because then I would make Mrs Ploumen too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u133	This means that if there are no three requests from the Chamber for an apology, you would not have made them either. That is in stark contrast to the image you just sketched: I'm making a mistake, I see and acknowledge it and I'm making it right. That's not how it happened. That is also my final question: in my first term, I did not just ask what the Minister is doing to repair the damage in another country. We have heard about this: phone calls, appointments. I want to know now what you are doing to remove the pain that has been caused in the interior. What do you say to these people? Those people don't have much use for "those words were chosen carelessly, I wanted to stimulate." What does this minister say to the Dutch whose trust he also needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr President, I have apologized to all those who have offended these statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u135	I am left with the question of what the Minister actually thinks about the genetic cause of not being able to live together. All I can say is, okay, but I think it's special, because you know what you say when you talk. I'll just park it. My question concerns the point that Mr Pechtold also mentioned, namely the European part. There, too, is the question whether the Minister said something he did find, but should not have said it, or not? I quote: Eastern Europeans will never agree, even if we turn their arms all the way on the back. In short, they never agree to it. Was there a minister there who said what was so, but shouldn't have said it, or isn't he? In short, I think that is important, because perhaps we are going to talk about the fiction that in the end it may still be possible for those countries to agree. If not, I'm more or less gonna tell those countries: just as good friends, but then we're gonna go on a different path. So for the Chamber it is relevant to know whether the Minister said "yes, it is; stupid that there was a camera there, it shouldn't have" or that he said "no, it isn't at all; we can just work on it."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u136	Unfortunately, the actual situation is now: it is so. Because that agreement has not been reached. I also said just now to Mr Pechtold that it is the full commitment of me and the government to get that cooperation. I also referred to the instruments that we can use to achieve this: the financial instrument "European money" can very well be linked to cooperation on the reception and integration of refugees and the formation of coalitions with similar countries. So that's my bet, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u137	Just for the sake of precision, it is true that the Minister says 'that', and I think that's quite understandable 'that's never going to work; we are actually going to bet on other points'. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u138	It remains the commitment to allow all European countries, including the Eastern European countries, to cooperate. For that we have a number of instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u139	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u140	Yet one more time: then the verdict is not... Because at first, the minister said "it's true; they're not in." Now he says, "The stake is to let them join." I'd like to be a part of that. That's not the point. But if there's no point, then we shouldn't fool each other. So the government's commitment is to get those countries involved. That can and then that statement is an exciting, somewhat sharper statement. Whether the verdict is as it is and then we as a Chamber and government should indicate what other path we are going to take. I think that this is a rather digital question with a possible answer that really helps us in a discussion that is indeed very sensitive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u141	There is no such cooperation from the countries of Eastern Europe in the actual situation. The government's commitment is to get it from all European countries. I just outlined the instruments that we can use in this regard. These are financial instruments and forming coalitions with other countries that, like the Netherlands, want to work on such a united European approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u142	I'm fine with that answer. But for my weighing: that means "so" and there is nothing wrong with this statement, that this statement has indeed been simply a stimulating statement, which should not be taken literally but is meant for the discussion, to turn on just as hard. That was actually my only question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u143	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u144	However, I would like to touch on the extent to which we would be genetically capable of working together and living together with people who are different. I have a bit of the same feeling as colleague Buma. Somehow it is unsatisfactory for the Minister to say: I must leave that to science. I want to connect that with the first question I asked during an interruption: how hopeful are you, are we, can we be about cooperation? There is a scientific discussion, but at the same time we have to take a stand here and now and put our shoulders under it and if there is something hanging over the market'maybe we are not capable of it at all or we do not want it at all'. The very fundamental question is: are we able to work with people who are something else, who have a different ethnic, cultural background, yes or no? That question is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u145	Whatever the outcome of that scientific discussion, the task for us is clear: we must work for the living together of all those groups that are in the Netherlands or that we allow because we have good grounds for doing so. That won't always be easy. Mr Segers and I agree on that, but we also agree that it is not impossible. Then I can go back to the point that my speech, even then, started with the observation that the Netherlands is such a fantastic country, partly because we succeed very well, with all the efforts that it requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u146	In addition to all the realism and perhaps sometimes the scepticism we have about complexity and cultural differences, I would like to express the hope that, precisely when we unite around the values of the rule of law and take human rights and fundamental freedoms as the starting point, we will be able to reach out to each other. Then we are irreconcilable to those who reject these freedoms, but we are extremely atonementable and able to work together and to really stand shoulder to shoulder for human rights, for those same values and for the rule of law that we have. And what color or background does anyone have, who cares?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u147	Sure. You can have that hope by naming, in my opinion, the coalition agreement well that you must have that hope and that full commitment and at the same time that it is not always easy, that there are really people who feel very misappreciated and then translate it into the concrete measures on which we have found each other. You don't take those measures if you don't have any hope that they will ever be effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u148	Madam President, very briefly. But then I find this more satisfying than when you park it and say: well, we should leave it to scientists and we will hear what they think. Then we are really moving forward at full speed, and I think that is very hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u149	I haven't. Mr Buma and Mr Segers put it very precisely when we were sitting on the minister's block of effectiveness. It was about that gene thing, the blueprint of every human being and everything that is walking around on this earth. When the Minister says "that's a discussion for biologists and others," it sounds a bit like people who say in the climate debate: that's not what people do. Then 90% of this and 10% will find something else. I do not think that is possible when it comes to something essential, when it comes to the question of what we are as human beings, what we can or cannot learn, what we can or cannot evolve, or whatever. I don't want the Minister to put that down as "that's a discussion for the connoisseurs." Does the Minister think that something in us, in our origins, is hindering us to live together with others from anywhere on this planet, with setbacks and steps forward and backward, learning as humanity, as an individual? Which side of the discussion is the Minister on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u150	People organise themselves in all kinds of groups for whatever reason. The underlying reason for this organization is a lot of research done from all kinds of scientific disciplines. I indicated that I should not interfere. I shouldn't have done that here either. Can the fact that all these investigations are there and we find that there is group formation lead you to believe that people can never work together? No. Fortunately, we are able to observe, and then I go back to Dutch society, which, with all the tensions, challenges and risks it brings, we succeed very well. As much as I am concerned about international cooperation, that was the main theme of that meeting, I also note that we can achieve results in a number of areas. That's what I named in that meeting. I could only have done that because, despite the tendency to choose all kinds of groups or nationalities as an organizational association, it often succeeds in striking these bridges regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u151	This is indeed that fundamental question. I hear the Minister say it better now than he has so far. It reassures me that despite thousands of years of human history in which we are indeed learning badly from history and in which we apparently need enemy images to prove our own right, history is indeed full of it, and even today we do not have to look far to see that this is still going wrong. The minister here states that he thinks that people are able and have no obstacle in genes or whatever to finally work together as a group, to allow new people in that group or to have new feelings of identity, nationality or any concepts added there in recent history. That doesn't stand in the way of man. That's an essential thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u152	Sure. And that requires a constant effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u153	To be absolutely sure the next question. For my group, this is a difficult point, also for how we behave in the second term. Is this minister saying that there is no connection between genes and our capacity for peaceful cooperation and living together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u154	I can't judge what exactly is or isn't in the genes. I can say that we should not accept the fact that there are differences between people or groups of people. I can also observe that, despite all the tensions that everyone mentions, it is fortunately possible to work well together in all kinds of contexts in the Netherlands and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u155	A number of coalition parties have asked the question. The opposition also raises this question. I'm gonna repeat it. I really want to make it so sharp. In a lot of debates, as a minister, you really have room to retain something of your political colour or to seek the political space. That space is a little bit lost here. That's why it needs to be as sharp as this. Does the Minister indicate that there is no link between human genes and our ability to work together peacefully and live together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u156	People can live together just fine. Which is or is not the connection between genes and that... Again, I shouldn't have made the connection, because I'm not an investigator investigating that. For me, it is essential that there can be no insurmountable obstacle, we should not accept it morally, but I do not know it in order to achieve that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u157	I will ask the question again, because this is relevant. The minister says every time he shouldn't have mentioned genes. Yeah, duh! We all understand that here. But the minister did it. He has created a reality that in 2018 we are debating the influence of genes on people's ability to work together. We didn't do that here. That's what the mistress did. Now we are asking for a clear answer from opposition to coalition. And every time, the minister tries to go away. I do not think there is much political space here, Minister, I say through you, Mr President. Again the question: do you see a link between the genes and the ability of people to work peacefully together and live together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u158	I don't see an automatic connection. That's why I'm saying I shouldn't have made that connection. I do not want to accept a defeatist inability to work together, because then I would not be able to do my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u159	It's been tried enough. I'm not gonna try again. But this is where all the questions have to be asked. There are also many questions from people who are watching this debate. There are questions about the Minister's sincerity. Is he actually apologizing for being careless? Does he take his words back because he really means it, because he's sincere in that? Or does he do it to save his ass? Is he doing it to save his position? That is a question that I think may be asked, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u160	I'm doing it because I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u161	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Minister. No, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u162	Yes, Mr President, because we had the case about the statements and whether or not we are serious about them, but there is also the block of effectiveness. That is why I have just asked a question about the European Union. I now have a question about our Kingdom, because we may sometimes forget that the Foreign Minister is also Minister of European Affairs, but also the Foreign Minister for three countries, three islands within our Kingdom. There's been a lot of criticism from those islands. The minister is also the minister for those people, with many relationships, also here in the Netherlands. So, on behalf of those people, I too, as a Member of Parliament, stand here. I would like to know from the Minister what contacts he has had there recently. I have read about this, but I would also like to know how he feels about its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u163	The prime ministers of the countries of the Kingdom were the first ones I approached when I heard what my statements had brought about there. They also indicated that there might be another debate in the States. I also offered them a further explanation where that would be helpful. That offer on my part stays on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u164	The last question, Mr Kuzu. There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u165	No, no, I don't have a question. I have an order proposal. When we move on to suspension, I would ask you to suspend for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you. I thank the Minister for his answers in the first term. I'm going to look at the responses to the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u167	My group, the CDA group, is larger, but even if it were to meet now, it would not need 45 minutes. I would simply like to say that we can proceed fairly quickly with the second term of the Chamber. Quickly reaching the conclusion that we are going to suspend for 45 minutes is completely unnecessary for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u168	We'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u169	What do you want? Do you support Mr Kuzu's request?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr Kuzu has made a proposal. I thought this was an order debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u171	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u172	We support Mr Kuzu's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u173	The Labour Party supports that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u174	Yeah, suspend support for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u175	Things I don't need, I can support. So I won't stand in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u176	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u177	Support, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u178	I think it's obvious. Fine, then I'll suspend the meeting for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u179	I'm reopening the meeting. Before we proceed, Mrs Buitenweg would like to make an order proposal on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u180	Thank you, Madam President. We would like a slightly longer suspension, namely until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u181	We are going to see if there is a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u182	No objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u183	Okay. No one objects to the extension of the suspension? Then I'll suspend until 4:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u184	We will continue with the debate on the statements made by the Foreign Minister at a closed meeting. The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u185	Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, a foreign minister has the task of defending Dutch interests internationally. That's important to our companies. This is important for our security and that is important for Dutch citizens abroad. It is not the job of the Foreign Minister to deal lightly with this and to engage in a closed meeting. So you don't deal with that relaxedly. If you do want to do that, you can organize a cabaret evening with Klaas Dijkhoff, but not have a session with 70 top diplomats, top representatives of Dutch organizations abroad, as all kinds of racist, undiplomatic nonsense spouting out and gradually indicating eight weeks later that it was careless, that you apologize and take back those words. Mr. Chairman. The DENK Group believes that it is unbelievable that it was only after 30 times that the Minister insisted on this parliamentary debate by both the coalition parties and the opposition parties that it was difficult to say that there is no link between genes and the way we live peacefully with each other. That strengthens us in the idea that the Minister simply means the avenged statements he made. Moreover, he has greatly damaged the international standing of the Netherlands. As far as we're concerned, he can't get away with that. We also believe that the Chamber should not look away. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Minister of Foreign Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Azarkan and Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u186	Mr. Chairman. For us this was a very important debate because we wanted to know what the Minister really thinks, because of the damage that has occurred abroad, but also because of the pain that has been caused in the Netherlands. We are now getting to the point where we need to assess whether the Minister can maintain the confidence and credibility to carry out his task. The Minister indicated that he thought words were careless and that he took them back. He has also indicated that he apologizes to anyone who has offended. What we have missed is a minister who says: this should not have been done; I regret it; I do not think this; those genes, in the debate, have nothing to do with it. It's a trade-off. It is important for all Dutch people to be able to be represented by a government, by a minister, who at all times, with regard to the problems, works optimisticly and persistently for a peaceful society, here and outside. We believe that it has not proved sufficient that the Minister can continue to have that confidence. This means that we will vote in favour of the motion that Mr Kuzu has just tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u187	I shall now go to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u188	Mr. Chairman. I began my speech here this morning with a quote from our former Foreign Minister, Mr Halbe Zijlstra, who had to resign. He said the Foreign Minister must be above all doubt. Mr Blok has not been able to remove that doubt from us today. In fact, in the end Mr Blok comes with excuses, but if you have to ask for something so many times and insist on something so many times, then the question remains what Mr Blok really thinks. This does not take away the damage he caused in the Netherlands, but certainly also abroad. He must be aware that he does not only make those statements as a person or as a VVD. As Foreign Minister, he is supposed to act diplomatically at all times and everywhere. That did not happen in this case. That is why we will support the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u189	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u190	Madam President. At the beginning of the summer, Minister Blok spoke true words about the bankruptcy of multicultural society. A large part of the Netherlands, even the majority of its own supporters, agrees with him. Yet he continues with the dust, with excuses, taking it back and saying that he didn't mean it and that the multicultural society is beautiful. It's unbelievable. And this for the simple reason that Mr Pechtold and his people want it and demand it. He gets his way. Pechtold's will is law. Mr Blok is now back in the booth and has said what he has been instructed to do. He can sit on the plush now. That's the reward he gets from the coalition. The voter will understand little or nothing of it. The voter will once again think that politics The Hague does not understand what the ordinary people think. A lot of people, too, according to research, to a large extent the VVD supporters, think that multicultural society is a disaster. Then there is finally someone in Rutte III cabinet who says what people think, and then he gets beat up politically. No one understands that. Madam President. In Box K there is now a shadow of what Mr Blok once was. I hope he'll come to his senses after all. We in the PVV Group are not going to send home a minister because of the good ideas, but he is damaged. He's not standing here with a straight back. That is very regrettable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u191	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u192	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I saw a minister who has repented, who has taken back words in good faith and repeatedly, words he did not mean either. The Minister rightly made it clear that genetics does not play any role in people's co-existence and cooperation. And that was necessary. Mr. Chairman. I have heard Minister Blok say reasonable things. The problems of integration must be recognised and identified. Think of labour discrimination, racism and much more. But Minister Blok has hurt a large part of the Dutch population with his previous statements. For example, he put away Turkish Dutch. It was in his words "nice to go to the Turkish bakery on Sunday, but if you live in the middle of it, you suffer from the side effects." Today he said he didn't mean those words. And that was very necessary. The question that remains is how he will restore confidence in the Netherlands and abroad in the near future. Because the work is not finished, not at the Ministry, not in the Chamber, not in the Cabinet, not in Dutch society and certainly not abroad. After today, I hope the Minister can put his false start behind him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u194	Madam President. Mr Blok's unfortunate statements gave rise to a very substantive debate. I thank the Minister for his answers, for the clarity he has created. He apologized. We can see that what he has said has not contributed to the effectiveness of the Netherlands in the European Union to promote a fair distribution of refugees across the European Union, but we will have to do so now. And that's what the Minister wants. There was doubt as to whether we are genetically capable of working together and whether it can become something with that multicultural society, whether there is hope for a divided country. There have been clear answers on this point. That gives room to put the shoulders underneath to get to work with it. I am motivated to do so, and the Minister has made this clear. We do not look away from failure, from mistakes, from abuses in that multicultural society, but we are hopeful because there are many people of good will. And for that society, for space for differences, but against contradictions, I stand. I want to work on that, and we'll do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u195	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u196	Mr. Chairman. We have already spent many hours debating the text of the Foreign Minister at a closed meeting in a few minutes. My group would have preferred to use that time for an interplay debate on dividend taxation. But I do not want to underestimate the importance of this debate, because controversial statements by a minister deserve priority in the political debate. This minister clearly has a problem. It is and remains an almost impossible task to undo what you have just said by saying that you did say it, but that you did not mean it, that it was unfortunate and careless afterwards. But said remains said. So in this room, you're gonna be flayed on every part of your statements. I must say that the Minister did not leave a strong impression with my group. In my first term, I paid attention to the position of the minister in the international political force field. According to the Minister, it's okay with that, because his schedule is packed. I do not think that this is a guarantee that there is no political distrust of other countries. A foreign minister often speaks in private in his daily work. I can imagine that his interlocutors will be wondering at some point. I have also pointed this out later on whether they will be dealing with a minister who later publicly states that what he said in private was afterwards unfortunate and careless and that he withdraws it all. As far as we are concerned, this Minister is still dealing with a credibility problem. This also applies in the countries of Eastern Europe, which he believes can be written off as a home port for refugees. My group believes that this is an unwise statement. In itself, it will not change much in the willingness of those countries to receive refugees, but they now have an additional argument to defend that attitude. After all, the Dutch Foreign Minister has said that they will not allow these refugees. Of course, there are other ways of putting pressure on these countries, and that must be done. We trust that the Minister will contribute to this, but it remains difficult for his international credibility. Mr President, we ask for a suspension for consideration on the motion of censure of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u197	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u198	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all my fellow Members here in the Chamber for the debate we have had today, including most of the colleagues from the opposition, sorry about the coalition, and certainly the opposition. I would like to say something about the focus of the debate. The story that this Minister of Foreign Affairs held this summer has been discussed in depth. My group indeed needed a suspension and then needed a little more time to consider exactly what happened in this debate. What has the Foreign Minister said and done here? I have heard him say a number of times that he regrets the words, sometimes that he regrets them or that he apologizes. When it came to genetics, it was dragging and pulling. And only in the very last minute of the extension did the Minister say: well, I don't automatically see a connection. So we talked about the statements and how the Minister looks back at them. We talked about his effectiveness. Is he still the person who can restore the reputation of the Netherlands in the world, that he can negotiate with other partners in Europe? To make agreements, for example on the distribution of refugees? That is the question before us and we must all answer it. When I come back to the first thing he said and regain confidence in society, my group has no confidence in it. The Minister's answers were there, he gave them, he eventually knew it was politically necessary, but I didn't think they were equestrian. I didn't think the minister was standing there with the idea: this really isn't what I think. But he knew what to say and he did it. As far as his political effectiveness is concerned, Mr Wilders has already indicated in his contribution how effective the Minister can still be. This minister is now lame. He has been dealt with in this way, not only questions have been asked, but also hard words have been uttered from the coalition, a ruler unworthy. This can't be happening. And that is why my group also comes to the conclusion on that point that the Minister, that this person, is unable to restore the broken trust as Foreign Minister. That is why we will support the motion of censure that DENK has tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u199	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u200	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I indicated on behalf of the SGP that we consider it important that ministers in private meetings with Dutch people in high positions at international organisations should also be able to go a little further, regardless of their speech in a question-and-answer game, but should at the same time remain within the limits of diplomatic language. The Minister himself stated in his letters to the Chamber earlier that the images he used were unhappy, that some of them were too sharp. He actually repeated that again orally today. That is what the SGP Group is doing, and we would like to move on to order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u201	Thank you. Mrs Thieme has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u202	Mr. Chairman. We have seen a debate that has expired as anyone could expect. Many seemingly sincere ifs and mares and conditional support from D66, the Christian Union and the CDA: if the minister performs the ritual dance according to our wishes, then he may stay. That was a bit of a tone. Mr. Chairman. As I have already said, this is the way to degrade democracy into a parody and insult the electorate to its fibers. The outcome of this debate was determined in advance by the blocking of the coalition parties. They have made every effort to make it seem different, but every well-thinking spectator sees that they had the appearances against them, have and keep them. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has lost credibility with his behaviour and his defence here in the Chamber today. The reputation of the Netherlands has been damaged by the Minister's shattering chat. The Netherlands needs a minister who is beyond any doubt and can play a strong role on the international political scene, where we need to talk about major challenges that we face: climate change, refugees and, of course, civil wars. This Minister will not be able to play that role, and that is why we support the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u203	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u204	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I think he's been clear about how he looks at things, how things went, but certainly about the content. In terms of shape, it was a mistake. He has recognized them, in all the terms and terms he has been asked for. He's taken that seriously. I note that he shares our goals for a strong Netherlands, where people can live peacefully together. I also see that he recognizes the problems that lie ahead of us, that he is realistic about how the world works and that he is motivated to improve it. I am also convinced that he can do his work here and abroad with full credibility. As far as we are concerned, he is moving forward quickly in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u205	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u206	Madam President. I opened the debate today with the sentence: 'A foreign minister who has to apologize for a summer to other countries and to all kinds of groups in the Netherlands has done something wrong'. I conclude from today's debate that the Minister himself can see that. You can focus discussions, but that has clearly gone too far here. The debate today was sometimes a bit strange. I would like to remind you that I asked a normal question in my view, namely whether it is true that the Minister thinks there is a straight line from a dysfunctional government in Suriname to a almost everywhere failed multi-ethnic society to the human genes. It is clear that I think that is a silly argument. The Minister had a great deal of difficulty in answering yes or no, although that question was not so difficult. With regard to Europe and Eastern European unwillingness with regard to the distribution of refugees, the Minister was clear after some back and forth questions. It was meant to be a stimulating theorem. There too it was a little more exciting than wise. The joint task remains, and I feel it very strongly, even as a member of this Chamber, to stand for a European approach to foreign policy, because that is ultimately the key issue. As far as I am concerned, looking up the core is also an answer to the question of how we deal with the obvious tensions in a multi-ethnic society. I would almost like to say'multifunctional' and how we make them work peacefully. The Minister's statements did not help; I also said that. That is why I come back to what I said in the first term and what I believe the Minister is fully aware of, namely that in cases like this, he should weigh his words more carefully and choose more wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u207	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u208	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the answer given by the Minister has come to a deafening display. Oh, what a piece of shit! I even speak of a demasque. We considered the Minister, after his statements, what this is about, as an ornament of steadfastness, a VVD man who says what he thinks. We have therefore come to this debate with the best intentions, with a gift and a heartfelt heart. And what do we get back? We're coming home from a cold carnival. What we're hearing now, that's quite a bit. That is hardly mentioned in this debate. The minister says he now regrets the statements, that he should have arranged them differently and that they were meant to be stimulating. That's all nice and kind, but what the door shuts is that the minister says he never meant them. That changes the situation. If you don't mean what you said, you can't just say, "I don't mean them." Then you didn't mean them at the time you pronounced those lyrics. And then you put people on the wrong track. We have also been misguided, and we cannot use it in the Forum. Those are tricks the VVD uses more often when it comes to election time. We're not falling for that! So I guess I'll just have to get that card back. I'll ask the messenger to receive that return. We wish the Minister all the help and strength of anyone in his further ministerial career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u209	Thank you. And within the speaking time!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u210	That's what I like to hear, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u211	This also brings us to the end of the second term of office. The second term was mainly used by all spokesmen to mark their position. No questions have been asked, and so I will see if the Minister needs a brief response. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u212	Certainly, Mr President, because a motion of censure has been tabled by Mr Kuzu and his colleagues in his group. It won't surprise him that I'm betraying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u213	It's addressed to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u214	I understand. Mr Pechtold asked me what steps I am going to take to restore confidence. When I indicated that my agenda was full abroad, it wasn't just passively meant to wait for me to get a call. It is, to a large extent, also my initiative. I have also indicated that, where necessary, I would like to take an additional step in the Kingdom. My work means that I am still very little in the Netherlands, but I will gladly take some steps in the Schilderswijk or any other district where all these issues play. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u215	Thank you. That concludes this debate. There is a motion of censure and it is customary to vote on it. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u216	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u217	Mr President, I assume you have listened carefully to me. I didn't ask for a suspension of a few moments. I asked for a 15-minute suspension. I repeat that on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-05-tweedekamer-6.u218	Then I'll look around and see if anyone objects to a short suspension of 15 minutes. That is not the case.
