ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the Supplementary Law on Soil Environment. Welcome to the Minister and Secretary of State. Welcome to the public gallery and to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Laan of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I was 16 years old, I never thought: when I grow up, I want to deal with the Supplement Law on Soil Environment Act. That wouldn't be so good at that age either. Well, now I'm thinking differently. This supplement law is about the soil, about our subsurface, about the foundation of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that the VVD is a strong supporter of the Environment Act. It is a good thing that responsibility for the physical environment lies with municipalities. Municipalities have the best view of local soil quality. In addition, municipalities will be responsible for enforcing the rules. This brings the care of the soil to the same competent authority as the care of spatial planning, construction and other aspects of the environment. This will increase the integration of different policy areas and the possibility of targeted local policies. This system review provides a good opportunity to shape a good approach to environmental law. The current environmental law is far too divided between laws and underlying rules. Procedures often take a long time, with the result that there is little room for initiatives by residents and entrepreneurs. That doesn't make it any clearer for the users. Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the new responsibility for municipalities. In what way do the provinces and 29 large municipalities currently responsible for soil policy share their knowledge and skills with all municipalities? In short, how are the municipalities going to ensure that they can implement this policy? Does the Ministry have a role to play in this? What can the Ministry do to support them? Mr. Chairman. Another point is the obligation to clean up. It disappears from the rules of the Empire. The Quality of Living Environment Decision lays down instruction rules which will soon require municipalities to indicate in their environmental plan what measures are needed to deal with existing soil pollution. Can the directors present indicate whether this will in principle maintain the obligation to clean up which we are now familiar with? In other words, are the measures that can be included in the environmental plan as far-reaching as the restructuring obligation currently laid down in the state rules? I am asking this question because I am curious about the possibility of local consideration. I can imagine that contaminated soil does not always need to be cleaned up. New techniques show that not clean soil can still be built. For example, the ground can be covered. How does the Minister view these developments? Mr. Chairman. The last question, but certainly not the least important. If the soil is polluted and it needs to be cleaned up or cleaned up, you can go deep into your pouch. It is important to know who needs to be in the pouch. Is it the land owner? Is it the polluter? Or is it the city? Knowing that the municipality will be responsible for soil policy, that is not entirely clear to me. Does this change anything compared to the current situation? If so, what then? I would like a specific explanation from the directors. So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the first supplement to the new Environmental Act. The introduction of the new legal system is a long-term journey. Today is the first time that I, as a fairly new MP, have talked about the Environment Act. I therefore allow myself to begin with some more general comments on the Environment Act. It will not surprise you, I think, but I start by saying that GroenLinks attaches great importance to the protection of our environment and to good spatial planning. It is certainly the case that some tasks can be better carried out at local level and that powers are laid down there. However, we are concerned that the equivalent level of protection in the new system can be guaranteed. Minister of State Herman Tjeenk Willink wrote in his recent book a very striking passage where I would like to start my story with: "While the Netherlands is still well-known abroad for its spatial planning and urban planning, in recent decades without much duty our spatial traditions in the areas of housing, landscaping and public transport have been abandoned. The authoritative National Planological Service with its provincial branches was abolished, housing corporations were placed on the market, legally split and placed under supervision, State Forest Management was privatised, Rijkswaterstaat marginalized in substance and the Rijksbouwbouwdienst transformed into Rijksbouwgoedbedrijf. Or is that all the consequence of the view that land is mainly buyable and not primarily habitat, living environment? For example, the government itself contributes to the erosion of our identity." So much for Herman Tjeenk Willink. In my opinion, his statements were a good expression of the good and long-standing tradition in the Netherlands in the field of spatial planning, of coordinated spatial policy. But unfortunately this has been eroded in recent years, as Tjeenk Willink clearly points out. Unfortunately, the new Environment Act is an example of this. Unfortunately, the emphasis in the new system is on deregulation, less rules, more tailor-made work at local level. But are municipalities able to balance all interests well against each other with the limited resources they have? GroenLinks was and is not convinced of this and therefore voted against the introduction of the Environment Act. Does this mean we're gonna sit down? No, not at all. After all, we have reached the next stage. In the run-up to the introduction of the Environmental Act, many additional laws, introduction laws and complementary decisions are still passed here. We will assess them all on their merits and see on a case-by-case basis whether we think it is an improvement or not. Improvements may be added. Mr. Chairman. With great pleasure I am now going specifically into the present Supplementary Law soil. The quality of our soil is very important and seems to be self-evident. Unfortunately, it isn't. If we don't protect the soil properly enough, it could become contaminated. This can have a major impact on surface water, groundwater and ultimately on our drinking water. I would like to begin by asking a number of general questions to both directors. The first one might be the most important one. Can they guarantee that with the present law and the further regulation that will follow, the quality of the soil and thus groundwater and surface water will not deteriorate? Do they agree with us that this law should actually improve the level of protection? For us, that is really an essential point. Do the directors think that the local authorities have sufficient knowledge to ensure that they can act quickly and adequately in the event of soil pollution? Are local authorities always able to make a good balance between the different interests? Let me give you an example. I can imagine that there could be a conflict of interest between the fertilization of an agricultural parcel and the quality of drinking water. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the quality of drinking water must always prevail. I wonder if the rulers feel the same way. Are they sure that in all cases it is clear who is competent? We must prevent governments from pointing to each other. For example, provinces indicate that there are still questions about what happens in so-called random discoveries of certain substances in groundwater. Then who's at the bar? Is that the College of B and W as competent authority in matters of chance findings or the College of Deputy States as final responsible for prevention and limit? Forgive me for this terrible English term. Then there's the source approach. In its response to the legislative proposal, the VNG pointed out that those who pollute the soil are currently responsible for this too, including the cost of the clean-up. I believe that this is very clear, and GroenLinks also fully agrees with the polluter pays principle. But the UNG also indicates that this is no longer automatically the starting point in the new system. Owners will be solely responsible for their own parcels, and cross-border contamination would be borne by the owners of adjacent parcels. Similarly, the owners of the plot where the contamination takes place are no longer responsible for tackling groundwater pollution. That's gonna be a government task. Municipalities indicate that they are not in favour of this. As GroenLinks, we fully endorse that position. For municipalities, it is unclear whether the owners of plots where pollution occurs can be required to carry out clean-up via an environmental plan. I would like an extensive response from the cabinet on this point, to these concerns of municipalities. I would also like to explain why the current system, which the municipalities consider to be working well, of the cabinet needs to be adapted in this respect. Because we are really looking forward to that. Following on from this point, a question on the expiry of the legal obligation to clean up as currently provided for in the Soil Protection Act. Where under the current law the government formed a safety net for private pollution owners, this disappears under the Environmental Act. Municipalities are concerned about this, and rightly so in our view. They want to prevent the government from running the costs of the source approach as guardian of groundwater against the part of the source approach now covered by the Soil Protection Act. Or a private individual, because it has a part of the source of his business neighbor on his property. I would also like a detailed explanation from the cabinet on how it looks at these concerns of the VNG. In doing so, we would also like to give explicit attention to possible damage compensation that can be requested for the owners of plots. With regard to transitional law, municipalities have expressed a concern. In fact, there are doubts as to who is responsible for the cost of repairing old contaminants. These have not been addressed in the soil restoration operation and are, in principle, not covered by the transitional law. Does the government still believe that these pollutants do not need to be cleaned up? And what if, at a later date, it turns out that there's a need to clean up? Then who's gonna pay the bill? Municipalities propose as a solution to address the transposition of the Water Framework Directive into the transitional law. What does the Cabinet think of this idea? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is concerned about the quality of our soil and surface water with the advent of the Environment Act. And not just us; the drinking water companies share our concerns. Vewin, the dome of the drinking water companies, has urged us to tighten up the requirements for the quality of groundwater. I would like to hear from the rulers how they look at these concerns. I also have a number of specific questions on that point. Are the directors willing to look carefully, in consultation with the drinking water companies, whether the current, rather general care obligation should not be extended to include a more specific list of criteria, such as those already apply to drinking water? And how does the generally expressed duty of care relate to the regulation of toxic substances? Finally, can the government guarantee that local authorities will ensure full compliance with obligations under, for example, the Water Framework Directive? That's it, Mr. Chairman, for the content. You will notice that we still have a lot of questions. I'll add one more, and it's about the trial. We have a number of comments on the Supplementary Decision on soil. Can the directors indicate when we can look forward to the Supplementary Decision, with reactions to the consultations that have been made? We look forward to this with great interest, because it sets out more precisely what is going to happen. That's at least as important as this law itself. I look forward to replying to the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u6	Thank you. I call Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u7	Mr. Chairman. In front of us lies the Supplementary Law soil and that is an amendment of the Environment Act. It concerns the protection of soil including groundwater and the sustainable and efficient use of soil. This soil supplement law is also important for drinking water companies, because much of our drinking water is extracted from groundwater. Do the directors agree that the active reorganisation of soil pollutants will stop because the current Soil Protection Act will expire? We do not think that is desirable. In order to ensure a safe supply of drinking water, it is necessary to maintain a legal framework to address bottlenecks in soil pollution, especially if they threaten the supply of drinking water. We therefore consider it desirable, together with the drinking water companies, to tighten up the supplement law on soil. The Supplementary Act should include an unacceptable situation when soil pollution threatens drinking water extraction. Or, as I ask the rulers, should this be done by means of the additional decision that is still coming to the Chamber? We also believe that it is necessary to make available the information on all soil pollutants remaining in the soil through the basic registration substrate. I ask the directors whether this will be the case. The Soil Supplement Act distinguishes between the management of historical contaminants in solid soil, which is seen as a responsibility of the municipality, and the management of groundwater pollutants, which is a province's responsibility. In the large cities, the municipality becomes competent authority for land and groundwater. That is why I ask the Minister, if the Secretary of State, of course, what the future is of complex industrial sites with multiple sources of pollution. Could this lead to the existence of different competent authorities per source of pollution? Aren't the county and the municipality gonna get in the way of each other? It is even conceivable that the province and the municipality apply different standards, requirements and conditions for that pollution source. That cannot be the intention in our view. The CDA wants a single authority for both ground and groundwater, with the current line with the municipality as the sole competent authority to continue. Does the Minister share that wish? Or the Secretary of State; I prepared it for the Minister, but there are two directors present. Mr. Chairman. The Soil Supplement Act also wants a policy renewal whereby the approach to pollution changes from case-oriented to area-oriented. We think that's a good approach. It does not work from one soil to another, but it looks at an entire area. Experience has been gained in the port of Rotterdam and the results are good. The Rotterdam project in the Botlek area was co-financed by the Ministry of IenW. How does the project proceed in the light of this new law? Does this area-based approach come under the transitional law of the law? Mr. Chairman. The Soil Protection Act provides for compliance with the Water Framework Directive and the Groundwater Directive. That makes sense, because soil contamination is also common in groundwater. With the transfer of the Wbb to the new system of the Environment Act, this guarantee will expire and new standards and requirements for groundwater quality can be set under the Water Framework Directive. We wonder whether that is desirable. Please give me a more detailed explanation. It has become clear from the answers to the parliamentary questions that the transitional right from the Wbb ends when risks of serious historical soil contamination have been removed or controlled, i.e. a finite transitional right. This means, in our view, that if large-scale groundwater pollutants have been removed or controlled, the transitional right will lapse. Is our vision correct? If that is the case, then how is our question going to prevent the Minister from again demanding a new reorganisation measure for such pollution under Wbb control under the Environment Act? This may lead to situations where contamination needs to be cleaned up twice. Finally, a few questions about the role of the municipalities. Does the Minister agree with the CDA Group that good soil management requires a lot of technical knowledge about chemicals and soil, for example? To what extent is this knowledge present in municipalities? Can they make the necessary independent assessments on this basis? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u8	Thank you. Mr Van Gerven of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u9	Mr. Chairman. More freedom and more open standards. That's what the Environment Act stood for and, when I read the current bill, also stands for. In fact, it is the decentralisation of spatial planning policy: open standards to be set by municipalities and provinces without an overly binding straitjacket. For the SP, the condition for the Environment Act has always been that existing levels of protection are maintained, for example in the field of drinking water quality. What impact does this law have on citizens and municipalities? The decentralisations in healthcare, for example, I refer to the Social Support Act, have caused huge differences between municipalities, causing direct neighbors with similar conditions to receive different care, reduced the level of provision and increased bureaucracy as coal. Can the cabinet give me the assurance that something similar will not happen to this law, that direct neighbours on either side of a municipal border will not have to deal with completely different clean-up requirements for the same pollution and that bureaucracy is not going to increase properly because responsibility for what is happening to them now? What about 350 municipalities? ICT must provide the solution, among other things. I've got a hard head in there. The soil does not have the ability to complain if it is wronged. Who is going to ensure, now that the obligation to clean up the soil protection act is repealed, that newly detected pollution will also be properly and completely repaired? Is there any clarity as to who should clean this up with all the consideration space for the municipalities? Under the Soil Protection Act it is clear that the owner of the soil where the source of the pollution is, also has the task of tackling pollution, among other fields, the plume. The supplemental law creates a great deal of uncertainty for me. I am not confident that serious pollution, especially if it does not pose direct health risks, will be adequately addressed. 150,000 pollutions we're gonna let go. What level of protection is there for the environment? With this law, do we not burden the future with a non-binding approach to these risks? For my group, it is still too much to ask whether we are not throwing the child away with the bath water by abolishing the obligation to clean up. An amendment in this area is being worked on. According to the 2017 Covenant Soil and Underground Monitor, there were 310 seriously polluted sites that still have to be repaired urgently. How's this going? What will happen to these locations if they are not restored by 2020 at the end of the covenant? Will the cabinet take responsibility for these reorganisations or will they fall into the vacuum of the Environment Act? Are they going to be the problem of the owner of the land or are they going to be the problem of the municipality? I see a great deal of uncertainty here and hope that the cabinet will be able to clarify this. For it cannot be the case that serious pollution that has not been dealt with for any reason in the past remains because responsibility for the change in the system shifts. Mr. Chairman. The pollution that this Covenant Soil and Underground had to tackle was only the most serious pollution within the Netherlands. In thousands of other places there is still pollution of land that must be dealt with under the current law on soil restoration if a logical moment arises, for example in new construction. But what happens to these locations in the new law? Can municipalities require the owners of the land to tackle the pollution source? And should this be done at the expense of the landowner? Or, as is the case at present, does this apply? What is foreseen for the cases where pollution spreads across the municipal boundaries and these municipalities in their Environment vision have different approaches and standards? Mr. Chairman. The Supplementary Act now makes no explicit requirements for waste water discharges and groundwater clean-up to prevent these drinking water sources from polluting. Although requirements are included in the Drinking Water Act, I am still not quite sure that this will have its effect in the Environment Act. Can the cabinet promise me that the standards laid down in the Drinking Water Act will be as valid as this supplement law is adopted, and that this will protect the quality of our drinking water? The water-winning companies, united in the Vewin, are deeply concerned about this. They want to ensure the establishment of soil standards in the Soil Supplementary Act. They also had other questions that I would like to pass on to the cabinet. Firstly, what is the government's view of mandatory land and groundwater clean-up measures if soil pollution threatens groundwater? Is that settled? Second. There are more than 150,000 cases of soil pollution. Is information on these contaminants included in the Basic Registration Underground? Thirdly, is the government prepared to include in the Supplementary Law soil that the discharge of waste water from clean-up to surface water should not have adverse effects on drinking water supply? Mr. Chairman. Then there's another point. This law also abolishes the prohibition on fees under the Soil Protection Act. Once this was introduced to reduce the burden of reorganisations for companies, assuming that these fees would slow it down. Does the abolition of this ban mean that this assumption has changed? Municipalities and provinces must now make their own choice to charge fees. Are there limits to this, for example, that they may be maximum cost-covering? A note to the bill states that the fee revenue may not exceed the cost of performing services provided, but still: will this remain in force with this change of law? And how is it prevented from becoming a milk cow, which unnecessarily raises the threshold to tackle pollution? Finally, Mr President. Last month, the Secretary of State answered questions from my colleague Laçin and myself about plastic waste from Belgium that was found at the incident in the framework of the project Over de Maas. The Secretary of State states in her replies that 20% of foreign material may be used. It's really weird. But she also wrote that what happened there cannot and that the plastic should first be removed. Obviously that didn't happen there. The Secretary of State says to come up with a modification of the Soil Quality Scheme. The question that arises with us is how these cases will be dealt with in the future in the Environment Act. Can the Secretary of State indicate how surface water pollution will be dealt with within the system of the Environment Act as in the case of Over de Maas? And is the protection in such cases in good hands? Does the polluter really remain liable? And do municipalities and provinces still have the same opportunities to maintain? That's it in the first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u10	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u11	Mr. Chairman. When I spoke with people in South Limburg about the Environmental Law and the Supplementary Law soil that is now before us, people asked whether the unique South Limburg caves fit into this system. Luckily, I've recently understood that this is okay. But the question is whether this also applies to other points, hence the following questions. With the Environment Act, all municipalities are responsible for tackling soil pollution. In its replies to the written questions, the Secretary of State states that there will be a good transfer of knowledge and expertise between the province and the municipality, while at the same time indicating that savings will be made. Environmental services can help, but will they have the capacity to do so? D66 is concerned about tackling soil pollution. An example of how things could have gone wrong, we know from Barneveld. We see that province and municipality struggle with the approach. Should municipalities need additional support or not come up with an approach to soil pollution, is help provided by the Ministry? Is it not wise to set aside resources for this? Mr. Chairman. Indirect pollution, e.g. contamination that threatens a supply of drinking water via groundwater, can also have a negative impact on health. It seems that the new law does not provide sufficient protection. With the instrument of chance, the competent authority could intervene in a direct way. We have tabled an amendment to this effect and we would like to hear how the Secretary of State looks at the amendment. D66 attaches great importance to the polluter pays principle. Only this supplement law appears to undermine this principle. It seems that owners are now solely responsible for their own plot and not for adjacent plots that are contaminated by soil pollution caused by the polluter. Is that image correct and, if so, does the Secretary of State agree with us that this is undesirable? How's she gonna fix this? How does the causer remain the one who cleans up the mess or at least has to pay for it? One last, perhaps, technical question. The current Soil Management Act sets out data on which the various categories of soil pollution must be cleaned up. Will these deadlines remain in force under the new legislation? Mr President, it will be clear that D66 wants to be sure that the importation of this law will protect people's health as much as possible from contaminated soil or its indirect consequences in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u12	Thank you. I'm looking at both regiments. Do you need a short suspension? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u13	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving us some time to look at things, because a lot of questions have been asked. The distribution is as follows. As Secretary of State, I am, of course, responsible for the Environment Act and the system. That's what I'm focusing on. If it's really about the contents of the soil, the Secretary of State will answer your questions. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps a few words in advance about the Environment Act itself, just as Mr Smeulders did. I think it is really going to help with broad, integrated issues that we are working on. That is precisely what we are going to see on these subjects. We often talk about housing, energy transition and climate adaptation. Every time there will be another ruler before you. What this law is going to do is to help us tackle these issues in the Netherlands, and that in a new way. It is therefore a question of putting administrative innovation into practice, with participation in advance, with a more equal information position for everyone, citizens and public authorities, with better cooperation between governments and between them and with much more transparency in the rules and in the decision-making process. So I do not really see any erosion of spatial planning or development. Mr Smeulders feared that. In fact, I see the opposite: I see more possibilities for full consideration, just where the problems need to be addressed. Mr Smeulders quoted Herman Tjeenk Willink. I always like to quote them. I'll just say that I haven't read the book yet, in fact, I haven't even been able to buy it yet. But Mr Smeulders and I know that Herman Tjeenk Willink has been calling for a very long time on the point that the rules should never be about the rules, but that they should always be about rules in which the practice has been clearly taken into account. It should not be about bulking or about scaling, but about customization. He also always calls for a lot of attention to be paid to expertise. We may be able to debate this in more detail some other time, but I see a movement that is heading in the direction of Herman Tjeenk Willink, among others. The system review as a whole is of course a very special process, with the Environment Act, the introduction law, the supplemental laws and the AMvBs that go with it. The previous cabinet has already done a lot and taken a lot of steps. We are building on this step-by-step approach to this new system. At every step there is involvement of the Chamber and the Chamber can give an opinion. At every step, there will also be more clarity about the role of the other parties in this, as is evident today. I mentioned the local authorities, but they are also companies, for example. That is important, because they must also be able to prepare themselves for entry into force. The Supplementary Law on Soil is such a step. We all know that the soil in the Netherlands is being used intensively and in fact more intensively and that this potentially creates a tension between its quality and its use. This requires an integrated approach in which soil is considered in conjunction with other parts of the physical habitat. That's what the bill does: it integrates soil into the Environment Act and it seeks the balance between protecting and exploiting it. It actually goes from a sectoral approach to a coherent approach to the instruments contained in the Environment Act. We believe that this is a good thing from the cabinet. For my part, I would like to answer a number of specific questions concerning these system issues and the role of municipalities, for example. Mr Smeulders also asked: are the municipalities well able to weigh the interests, because I understand very well that this is important? I think the municipalities are capable of doing this. Of course, there are very large differences between the municipalities in the Netherlands. They are different in size, but also regionally there are large differences. It is therefore important for municipalities to be able to adapt the rules to the local situation. It's called "administrative discretion" in our jargon. The Environment Act must set out very clearly the framework for this. It must ensure that there are guarantees where municipalities must stay. On the one hand, therefore, the municipalities are given the discretion to find local solutions to local problems, but that is within very clear frameworks. They have to stay in there. So those frameworks also limit that space in a way. It's giving space and setting frameworks. During the preparation of the new system, the municipalities are also well supported. I am confident that this is how we prepare the municipalities to work with the Environment Act. I can tell you that many municipalities are really eager to do so. Of course, we also have an interest in the early sharing of knowledge. Mrs Laan and I think Mr Smeulders asked about this. Not only the municipalities, you didn't say that either, but all the competent authorities are also supported in the implementation of the Environment Act. It could be the municipality, it could be the province, it could be a waterboard. But here we choose a gradual approach with support: Get started. We do this by transferring knowledge at meetings, by creating manuals and by sharing best practices. This is part of the so-called inter-administrative implementation programme. The environmental services, of course, carry out these tasks. That's what they're gonna do. This ensures a solid implementation, including in the smaller municipalities. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u15	My question was not specifically about the introduction of the Environment Act, because I know that you are busy through all kinds of consultative bodies to include all the municipalities in it. It was specifically about what we are talking about: the Soil Act and the knowledge about it. There are signs that there is a lack of knowledge in smaller municipalities; that is also logical. You say something very briefly about it. You are convinced that it is good because it goes through the DCMR and other related articles. The question is whether they really have the knowledge for that, because it goes fast if it goes well. How do we ensure that everyone knows exactly what it is about, because today it turns out that it is very technical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u16	It's two things. One is the change in the system as such and what it means for municipalities. The other is substantive knowledge when it comes to soil. But part of that is done in the implementation now by the environmental services, who naturally have and keep that knowledge. They will also continue with the implementation. All municipalities are well taken into account in the system change and what it means. If Mrs Laan has signals that sometimes small municipalities still have problems with this, then we must do something about it. I think it is very important that the small municipalities too should be involved and informed and can also participate in the whole implementation programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u17	I should like to add my voice to Mrs Laan's concern about the small towns. Environment services are at the bar for the VTH tasks. The rest are optional tasks. Municipalities can choose whether to place more tasks in an environmental service. Is it an idea, in the sense of a kind of covenant with the VNG, to make arrangements to steer the municipalities in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u18	I am getting this signal from Mrs Laan and Mr Ronnes, but in my opinion we have made good agreements, including with the VNG, about how we work together and how we reach the municipalities. But on the basis of this signal, I will certainly check with the VNG and other stakeholders to see if that is good enough. Mr Ronnes is suggesting that this be recorded in a covenant. I don't want to rule anything out in advance, but I don't even think this is necessary. I think this is mainly about the practice: working road. However, I would like to say to Mr Ronnes and Mrs Laan that I am going to look at it again in the light of the signal. Next time, I will come back to that. Then there is the question of financial resources. Mr Smeulders asked whether municipalities now have enough money to make this happen. The whole system review has financial effects; I recognize that. I think it would be good to look at them in conjunction. On balance, structural savings are expected from the entire system review. It was agreed in the financial agreement that these savings should not be skimmed. They are therefore allowed to keep the municipalities, the provinces and the water boards. If, because it makes it easier, they have resources on balance, then they can simply use them to do certain parts of the work better. That's up to them. In other words, in this way they can finance the implementation of the Environment Act themselves and do not require any additional funds in advance. We will, of course, have to keep an eye on that, but I think the basic agreement to avoid spoiling the money that is left so that there is room to invest in quality is very good. There were also some questions about an uneven playing field. Mr Gerven feared this and asked whether decentralisation would lead to an uneven playing field. I told you, the frames are the same. It is important for parties and companies to have equal rules in equal cases, because you want to create a level playing field. This is an important argument for setting uniform national rules for activities, such as the technical rules for soil protection. A concrete example is a liquid-tight floor at a gas station. In addition, all municipalities of the Empire must include a ban on building on contaminated land in their environmental plan, of course for health reasons. They don't have room in that; that's got to be in that environmental plan. In order to give the answer I just gave, it is also important that municipalities should be able to make their own assessment that does justice to the local situation, but within the framework range of the Empire. That's the thought behind this. Mr Gerven also asked about the fee. It is true that fees can be charged under the Environmental Act. This applies to the environment and therefore to soil. They must be cost-covering and they must be no more than cost-covering. Those fees are income. If something was first licence-free and a permit is now being requested, fees can be charged, but because they can only be cost-effective, that is not a kind of new earning model but a very reasonable way, I think, to deal with the cost of treatment. The spokesmen of VVD, GroenLinks and SP, and perhaps others, have asked questions about the disadvantage compensation. Mrs Van Veldhoven will discuss the obligation to clean up historical pollution. In the case of an obligation to clean up, suppose that it is included in the environmental plan, then the owner of the land must pay the cost of disposing of a pollution source or other measures, in the vast majority of cases, at least if the owner has caused the pollution source. There's no question about that. But even if an owner could have known at the time of purchase that disposal of that source or other measures were necessary, the owner is simply at the bar. You can imagine, but those will be the exceptions, that the owner didn't know that the land was contaminated and couldn't have known that either. In this case, the owner could be eligible for loss compensation. In doing so, we can imagine that these costs could be disproportionate and could not be taken into account at all. I do not expect this to have to be awarded often, but it is possible. Mr Gerven also asked why soil pollution was not included in the Basic Registration Underground. As it is now, there will be 26 prioritized registration objects in the Basic Registration Ground, for example groundwater wells and oil and gas permits until 2022. They're all in there. Once the first phase has been completed, where all this is in place, there is also room for further development. That is also the whole idea behind this change in the system. You don't do everything perfectly at once, because you know you can't, but you start, you build it carefully, and when the first phase is complete, you're going to develop. You can do that in this registration. We can also start thinking about that now. At the moment, therefore, there are 26 things in it and for others we can prepare that we could include them in the development process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u19	To specify it a little more, I understand that in the Netherlands there have been 150,000 contaminations, an incredible number. Given this decentralisation to the municipalities, it would of course be very good if the municipalities had their share of the 150 000 in some sort of basic registration, so that at least they have that film locally. How does the Minister view this? How are we going to realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u20	The most important thing, of course, is that that knowledge is there. What we are talking about here is actually the transition from one system to another. I agree with Mr Van Gerven that it must not happen in any event that some of this kind of knowledge is lost in the changeover. I have just said that it has been chosen to limit it to 26 registration objects in the first phase. So the soil pollution and the numbers mentioned by Mr Van Gerven, this category, are not included. Maybe Secretary of State Van Veldhoven knows more about that. But that knowledge must not be lost. If it is necessary and useful to include it in the next phase, then it should be done in the next phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u21	May I conclude from this that it is intended that the knowledge that is now available about the pollutants will eventually be refueled one-on-one to the municipalities, who will be given responsibility for this? I know that this is a lot to ask for, of course, but the municipality must be able to access it in one way or another very easily when it comes to its area or its region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u22	What I have just said is that at least nothing must be lost in the transition from one system to another, not even in the knowledge of this kind of thing. Moreover, when it comes to soil pollution, we simply have to rely on an equivalent level of protection. Mrs Van Veldhoven will explain this further. If the development shows that it is necessary to make this part of the basic registration, then we will consider it. I cannot yet say exactly how that would happen. I would therefore like to anticipate this matter. What Mr Van Gerven is asking me to do, I cannot say at the moment, but I can say that I am concerned about the fact that it is precisely this point that does not end up between ship and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u23	This brings you to the end of your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u24	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u25	I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it might be a good idea for me to start by saying what the relationship of this bill is with the main track and how the transition has been arranged. The Soil Protection Act will be repealed upon the entry into force of the Supplementary Act. This now responds to many of the concerns reported by Members of Parliament. For this purpose, soil rules are replaced by the Environmental Law, rules on soil protection or the prevention of unacceptable risks to health due to the use of soil. In the main track that is the Decision activities environment.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This provides a complete and clear framework for companies. The soil supplement gives shape to policy renewal in the field of soil. It complements the rules for a number of specific activities: digging, soil cleaning and application of soil, dredging and building materials or fertilisers, storage of soil and dredging and management of existing contaminants. The supplement track soil also adds a number of instructions to the Quality of Living Environment Decision, including on building on contaminated soil. A smooth transition from the Soil Protection Act to the Environment Act is regulated by the transitional law in the Supplementary Act, by agreements in the Convenant soil and subsurface, a number of rules in what is then called "the dowry" and by tasks in the field of soil in the basic package of environmental services. A lot of you have asked questions about historical pollution in particular. The transitional law is therefore an important part of this legislative proposal and of great importance. The reorganisations available or notified under the Decision are completed in accordance with the old law. I think that is an important point for all of you. In the case of emergency clean-up, the designation by the government is sufficient. In addition, agreements have been made in the Covenant soil and subsoil about a good transfer of knowledge and information from files that is actually the point that Mr Van Gerven just made that transfer from the province to the municipalities. That's a so-called "warm transfer." Those talks between provinces and municipalities are already taking place. Then there's what we call "the dowry." That's a set of rules on topics that pass from the Empire to local authorities in the Environment Act. They will then be added to the municipality's environmental plan or to the waterboard regulation. For soil, for example, this is a rule on the prohibition of building on contaminated land. That was one of the points that GroenLinks raised. Those rules will then be developed in the soil supplement decision. The basic tasks of environmental services include monitoring and enforcement. This is regulated by the implementation decision. The support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has just been discussed. But there was also the question left. If a small municipality ultimately remains with a question, we always have the Bottom+ window, from which expertise can be provided. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of more concrete questions. I shall begin with the level of protection, then I will come to prevention and care, then the accident finding, particularly in relation to drinking water, then the important point of 'polluter pays' and finally a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u27	Mr Ronnes has another question on your initial remarks, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u28	Yeah, about the 150,000 cases that are left behind and that only resurface in new spatial developments. Is it not a good thing to insist that these soil pollutants are recorded with priority in the basic registration substrate? Isn't it good to just record it very clearly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u29	Yes, but I think there has just been an exchange of views with the Minister on the registration in the basic registration substrate, so I am not going to let it happen that I am trying to explain something she has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u30	But the Secretary of State has just indicated that they are guaranteed to be recorded, but she doesn't say anything about how. So let me make a suggestion for that in the second term, perhaps by means of a motion. Let me do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u31	Let's see if we can be more precise in what you mean and what I can say about that. Perhaps a motion is the right way to do that. Mr. Chairman. Let's start with the equivalent level of protection. The Minister also pointed it out: that is the starting point of the Environment Act. That's important to me, too. The level of protection of health, safety and environmental quality remains equivalent to the current level. Therefore, the core of soil regulation remains at the heart of the transition. Then it's about protecting the soil from new contaminants. That is, of course, ultimately what the law is about. We have agreed to clean up historical pollution, but the law is, of course, about protection against new pollution. The level of protection is created under this law, as before, by a combination of different levels of government. So these are choices at national level, but also at regional and local level. This will be further developed at the level of implementing acts. In doing so, the framework conditions are laid down at a national level. Provinces and municipalities then make local considerations within these framework conditions, which are appropriate to the specific local situation. Of course, that's how the whole system of the law works. So one of the questions was, what's the advantage of this? Well, the advantage is there's more local customization possible. Then there's the clean-up obligation. An important question was: is the reorganisation obligation maintained? Yes, the obligation to clean up remains part of the legislation, but is now included in the environmental plan at the level of the municipality. This may impose obligations on the owner. And at decision level, the Empire also provides framework conditions for this by means of instructions. Mr Ronnes had also asked a question on this subject, concerning in particular the old pollutants. I have already indicated how they are covered by the transitional law. That's what we've agreed on. They will all be completed in accordance with the old legislation. Then there is the issue of prevention and duty of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u32	Mr Van Gerven has a question on that previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u33	Yes, because we, and not just the SP, but several parties were very much in favour of including that obligation to clean up in the Supplementary Act. It's not in the law, but it's being pushed down. That's actually not quite clear right now. Let me ask you this. There is now an obligation to clean up. This applies to the 150 000 pollutants, some of which are really being dealt with. A number are managed and, if necessary, arrested later if there are any developments. If the law we are talking about comes into force, is it the same? Let me ask you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u34	Yes, I think it is to a large extent the same, because even now there is no obligation to clean up every pollution. For example, in the case of pollution which does not have a serious risk, a balance is made between the ecological damage that you would cause and the imposition of an obligation to clean up. If there are serious risks, there are reasons to do so. That consideration is now being made and will be made in due course. It is important that this is recorded in the municipality's environmental plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u35	I understand that, but here's the thing. You have 350 municipalities. The law is getting more open, there's a little more discretion. Now 350 municipalities are going to make that decision. They can come to a different balance than, for example, a part of society or a higher government. You're gonna have a lot more captains on the ship than you do now. So now it's a little easier to tune it up and it's gonna be harder. Let me ask you this. Does a higher government, i.e. county or empire, still have opportunities to intervene if she thinks something is really wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u36	It's a layered system. The Empire thus gives real framework conditions by means of instructions which the municipality must comply with. There are conditions that are considered essential, so a municipality cannot just leave. In the environmental regulation, the province can also frame it. In addition, there is the environmental plan, in which the municipality says: this is the way we should do it. Where conditions are necessary, they are set through frameworks and where space is possible, they are left to the municipality. The sum of the instruction rules and the provincial regulation determines for the municipality the area that it still has in the environmental plan on this point. So you have to look at it in that sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u37	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u38	The SP has also asked who is going to ensure that future pollution is properly disposed of. I think that is indeed important; the Minister explained this very clearly. We have a number of historical pollutions, for which we have agreed on the reorganisations; they are completed under the old law. We're gonna work with a new law. It focuses on the prevention of new contaminants. We are doing this specifically with preventive provisions and care obligations. The double floor was just mentioned, but you can also think of double-walled tanks or liquid-proof floors. These are all conditions that can be imposed to prevent contamination. These kinds of preventive provisions are included in the Act activities environment, the Ball. It contains a lot of requirements that must be met in order to prevent new contaminants. The Environment Act also contains, of course, a general duty of care. It ensures that governments as well as businesses and citizens are responsible for a safe and healthy physical environment. That's the general safety net. Suppose there is a situation in which it is very obvious that as a company, as owner, you make certain provisions that have not been specifically appointed in the Ball. In that case, they may be covered by the general duty of care. Everyone just needs to ensure that there is no pollution. If such contamination does occur, the causer is obliged to take all the measures that can reasonably be required of him to reduce and eliminate pollution and its direct consequences as far as possible. This command is enforceable both in administrative and criminal law and is intended for what is not regulated by general rules or obligations of care. We have had the historical contaminations and the prevention of new contaminations, but it may be that I have been preparing about this. What about drinking water? Drinking water is a first need for life. The protection of drinking water is rightly always very high in the Chamber. There is a whole palette of instruments and rules available in the Environment Act and in the AMvBs. Your room has already decided on this. The Environment Act contains a continuation of instruments and legal requirements to safeguard drinking water interests, such as groundwater protection areas, regional water plans, water quality requirements and the implementation of the Water Framework Directive and the Groundwater Directive. The Drinking Water Directive is not included in the Environment Act, so it remains independent. The Soil Supplement Act and the Soil Supplementary Decision add to that palette that I have just mentioned, rules on soil sanitation and prevention rules, which should help to prevent contamination. The tasks and powers therefore remain decentralised in provinces and waterboards. They have the expertise and local knowledge to see what is needed in a drinking water area. This is, of course, done in good consultation with the drinking water companies. So the province is now but also soon firmly on the goat to protect the drinking water interest. In addition, the Drinking Water Act instructs all the relevant administrative bodies to make the drinking water interest heavy. The drinking water interest has also been defined in the Court as a compelling reason of great public interest. So all the powers that may be relevant to drinking water must be taken seriously. Because of the importance of drinking water, I think it is appropriate to address the potential for dealing with this urgent situation: that leaking vessel in the dunes that might not only lead to soil contamination but that through possible effects on water could also have an indirect effect on human health even more explicitly. I can imagine. This is why an amendment has been tabled to extend the random finding to situations where severe contamination of drinking water could occur. I'm getting a little ahead of myself. Mr Smeulders asked how the protection of drinking water production is guaranteed sufficiently solidly. I have already made a number of points on the general framework, but agreement has also been reached in the ground agreements on groundwater anerations. That is the great agreement on soil, which also concerns historical pollution. The performance is going well. Drinking water companies are involved. A selection of legally secured or mandatory tasks: strategic groundwater management by the province, monitoring, of course, the well-known instrument of groundwater protection areas, environmental values, a regional water plan, steering on withdrawals and, of course, the importance that quality does not deteriorate. So the supplement law soil is actually the piece of the puzzle that we're talking about. Many of the other safeguards have already been secured in other places. If there's a coincidence, who's at the bar? That was also a question from Mr Smeulders. In principle, the owner is always responsible for safety. If the owner does not act, the municipality may require him to take measures. But these measures are measures that the owner himself can take, for example, to stop a leakage. It is obvious that a municipality that takes on when it becomes too radical for an owner, for example when a dam wall has to be placed. So here too, of course, there is a reasonableness and is it always the question: is it the owner himself who, for example, does something go wrong in an installation, which creates such a situation or is it something else? The barrel in the dunes could also be a barrel in the backyard, of which you actually had no knowledge, of which you could not have known, but for which measures should be taken. Then that customization is important, because then a municipality should also be able to see what can be asked in reasonableness of the owner of such a plot in order to be able to clean up that random find as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u39	I also asked if provinces might be responsible. In my view, this is sometimes the case in the current system. They themselves have indicated to the Chamber that this is not entirely clear to them in the new system. The Secretary of State now indicates that it's the municipalities. Isn't that what the provinces are about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u40	I'll get to that in a minute. Who or what; I need to be pretty precise about that. I will come back to the question of the distribution of responsibility at that point. The CDA also asks: if both the municipality and the province have a responsibility, can there not be a very complex situation in an area? It is important to keep a close eye on the layering of this system. The province sets out in its environmental regulation frameworks where the local authorities' environmental plans must fit in. In such an area, cooperation is always of great importance, because there are appropriate powers in each other. The province is about groundwater and the municipality is about soil activity in the municipality. This is perhaps also partly the answer to Mr Smeulder's question. But in an area-oriented approach, these things naturally come together. Then it is important that the provincial regulation is framework for municipal environmental plans. So it can be secured in such a way that it looks after each other well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u41	Then who's the competent authority? You can regulate it in the regulations, but when you then have to impose measures for pollution, who is at stake?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u42	The municipality may require the owner to take measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u43	As a result, I have the following question. What if the city doesn't? Can the county do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u44	In its provincial regulation, the province obliges municipalities to include certain measures in the environmental plan. So I think the province will rather steer the question of whether the municipalities in their environmental plans take proper account of what the province has sent in the environmental regulation rather than intervene in an individual case. But of course there is always such a thing as inter-administrative supervision, where in ultimum it is always possible for a higher level of administration to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u45	Perhaps it is good to go a little further on this in the second term, because I myself as an alderman also experienced such a case once, in which the province had a role to play. I think that role is about to disappear. I wonder if that's wise. So maybe we should get on with it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u46	It might be good to share the specific case. The division of powers is as follows: the province is about groundwater and the municipality is about soil activities. At the cutting edge of it, an unclear situation may arise. That is why it is perhaps appropriate to keep the specific case under review on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u47	Now it's getting a little confusing. You just said that the municipality has an incentive to register the causer, also for the part that has to do with the groundwater.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u48	No. A contamination of groundwater comes from soil contamination. The municipality is responsible for having the owner take steps, also to stop the leakage in the soil, as it can leak into the groundwater. The city's up to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u49	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u50	For the sake of clarification, there is, of course, cooperation with the province if those risks to groundwater arise. Of course, that makes sense, because for groundwater, the province is the competent authority. But we're actually talking about the fallout. In addition, the municipality is always the competent authority. Then there is the establishment of soil standards. The standards are set out in the Environmental Act at decision level. The soil supplement decision will include groundwater standards. The province is given room for customization within a bandwidth, so that it can take into account, for example, drinking water extraction. The province must take action if via the environmental plan... But I think I just went into that. Has the importance of drinking water extraction been secured in the case of discharges to surface water? That was a question from Mr Van Gerven. Yes, that is guaranteed, because the rules on discharge ensure that all appropriate preventive measures against pollution of surface water or soil are taken and that the best available techniques are applied. Usually that's enough to protect water quality. In the case of discharges near an intake point, additional measures may be needed for the abstraction of drinking water. This is part of the emission test for licensed discharges. That test therefore takes into account the impact of discharge on a drinking water intake point. As you get closer to such an intake point, more stringent rules apply. In the case of discharges covered by general rules, water quality can be secured on site by means of customised rules. The Ball regulates that the emission test also applies when setting those custom-made requirements. What are the frameworks that ensure that the provinces protect drinking water extractions? The Bkl contains environmental values for some substances in groundwater. When it is exceeded, a programmed approach is simply mandatory. The generic instruction in the Bkl is that there should be no deterioration in groundwater quality intended for drinking water production. This is linked to mandatory monitoring. That's how it gets extra protection. In the area dossiers drinking water extractions, all problems per mining area are identified with all stakeholders and measures are agreed. Let me say a little more about 'polluter pays'. The VVD asked: is the polluter pays principle still valid? Yes, that remains absolutely the starting point in the Environment Act. I have just said something about the major pollution, the emergency pollution that occurred in 1987. That's what we've agreed on. In the case of other contaminations prior to 1987, the owner of the plot is in principle addressed in the approach. That is the approach at a natural moment, for example in construction. That is the case now, and that will be the case later. This will be dealt with in the municipal environmental plan. That's what binds the owner. Any financial arrangements may also be made. It also matters here whether it is the owner himself who caused the pollution or not. For the public authorities, only the cases in which the causer is not known whether the recovery of the cost of the property cannot be considered to be really reasonable remain. I was just saying, if you accidentally find a keg in your garden where you really couldn't assume that there was ever a big company that might have buried something in the garden, then you had no reason to investigate it. Then it may not be reasonable to tell the owner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u51	Mr Smeulders has a question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u52	It is now the second time that the Secretary of State mentions the example of a keg in the garden. For example, drug waste, chemical ecstasylabs that are being dumped. Right now, the owners are just responsible for that. That often leads to huge problems, because it just gets thrown down on your land. Does the new law then offer opportunities for governments to say: we take responsibility for that, because it is really evident that you cannot do anything about it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u53	This is a somewhat important issue, but I am also definitely talking about it with the provinces and the local authorities. My ministry has made money available to deal with that drug waste. There is still money available and now we are looking at how we can achieve a structural arrangement. I think that, in the example of the individual who is actually being dumped into his garden, it is actually quite unreasonable to ask the person concerned to bear the costs. That's disproportionate. For a municipality or something, that is of course another story. But we are talking about this with the local authorities, and I do share Mr Smeulder's concern that it is actually difficult to say that it is fair to hold someone who simply gets dumped in his garden as a private individual liable for it. But we'll get back to your room on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u54	I welcome the answer from the Secretary of State. What I would like to know specifically is: does this law help and offers more opportunities for governments to make their own assessment? You are also talking about individuals, but you are also talking about money, for example, for land-based organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u55	I have to come back to all that in the letter we're going to write about this. Let us not anticipate this too much now. I believe that this is a national issue that we need to discuss with the Ministry of Justice and Security and the provinces and municipalities in order to find a good solution. It is, of course, a result of crime and not of legal activities. So it is important to look at how we are doing this properly, but I understand Mr Smeulder's concerns about the cost to the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u56	I also have another portfolio, namely security and terrorism. I hear a number of things which, in the same way as my colleague, I am also very happy about. Does the Secretary of State have any idea of when we could get more information about that? What's the timeline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u57	What I just told you, I was able to dig up from my memory, but with an exact timeline, I can't. I should check that out. In my view, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said something about this during the budget debate and perhaps she also linked a timeline to that investigation and so... You yourself state that it does not directly relate to this debate and that is why we may be able to say it informally. Mr. Chairman. Do municipalities have to pay for groundwater renovations that have not been addressed in the past? Agreements have been reached on the management of historical groundwater pollutants. In doing so, the starting point is that all emergency sites with unacceptable risks were repaired by 2020 or that at least the risks at these locations are manageable or temporary security measures are in place. It has also been agreed that by 2020 local authorities have defined the main lines of territorial groundwater pollution management, where necessary and where territorial management is legally, technically and financially feasible. This is, for example, an area of pollution which, together, could pose a threat, and each of them does not require rapid recovery. For this purpose, this task has been assigned to the provinces. The UNG does not have to worry about that. That was the point I was going to come back to. Then there was Mr Smeulders' question as to whether municipalities could require owners to pay through environmental plans. Yeah, you can. Municipalities can in their environmental plan require owners or companies to clean up and with that to pay. Then there was another question about parcel cross-border cases. There is now often a partialisation for only the part where the activity takes place, because it would sometimes be unreasonable because of the excessive cost of retrieving it from an owner who is not the polluter. However, if a pollution is cross-border, the owner of a neighbouring plot may, on the basis of private law, appeal to the neighbour where the source of the pollution is. In the case of old pollutants, this is again difficult, but if the polluter is simply known, this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u58	Let's get to this last point. If I understand correctly, then the situation is so now. If a pollution is found, which must be cleaned up, on the property of the owner and that pollution spreads to the neighbor, then the owner of the plot must also tackle the neighbour's plot, that whole plume. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u59	If the owner of the moment is the polluter, then it is simply the general principle in the Environmental Act that the polluter pays. So he can be called upon to do so. If it is a pollution that was created without the owner knowing about it, that is another situation. It is also, of course, always considered to what extent rehabilitation is necessary because of the risks to health. But in principle 'polluter pays' applies to environmental law, and that is to say, if I pollute something at the moment and it ends up in your garden, then you can appeal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u60	The current Soil Protection Act regulates this, but is it also regulated by the new Supplementary Act? Because from all the stories I've read, I understood that it would end at the border and that the neighbour with whom the pollution occurred could also be held liable. Is that right? Because then we have a new situation, and if it were, I wouldn't think it was fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u61	There may be a de-jure and a de-facto situation, because in practice it is not always the case that the competent authority asks for everything to be disposed of. Sometimes it is also the question of whether the pollution is such that it has consequences that you would really like to reverse. The competent authority no longer asks that because it would be unreasonable because of excessive costs, especially when it comes to an owner who is not the polluter. We have different situations. The situation in which you are an active polluter, in which the causer, the polluter, is known. It can simply be held liable for this, even outside its own plot. Then you have the situation in which there is actually a more or less historical pollution, where the owner can be held liable to stop it. Then it is examined with the municipality to what extent that owner can carry it himself or that support should be provided for that purpose. In that case, a neighbour can still hold the owner liable under private law, but under the current rules it is also the case that the entire pollution is not always disposed of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u62	Just a moment, because it's very complicated. Let me ask you this. The polluter pays principle is now applicable in the current law. Is this principle equally applicable in the new law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u63	Yes, Mr. Chairman. "The polluter pays" is simply the general principle. So if I'm an active polluter, I'm also responsible for the pollution I cause outside my own plot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u64	So I understand that doesn't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u65	That doesn't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u66	I have one supplementary question on that. 'The polluter pays', is it the case that it can only be held liable under private law for pollution in the neighbor or neighbor, or also by the competent authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u67	No, look, here's the difference. If the polluter is known... That's exactly what this is about. If I have a company and I don't have a liquid-tight floor and that liquid leaks not only into my soil, but also into the neighbors', then I'm just the polluter and I'm responsible for that too, because I cause that pollution. If, after I have left that garage, someone builds a nice apartment in there and there appear to be all kinds of leaking oil barrels, which that person could not have known in any way, then a slightly different situation arises, in which the buyer of that apartment cannot be held liable one-on-one in the same way. It then looks at what can reasonably be asked of this owner, what is reasonably necessary to clean up the rest of the pollution and who can bear what costs. That is the situation in which municipalities can ultimately get an account, I say very simply, but that is the case now. Where there's really no one to tell, there's always an account with the government, at any level. So that doesn't change. By the way, it is almost never about private individuals, but very often about industrial sites. Then there are the other questions. The question of knowledge and skill is, I think, already answered. The Minister also said that, of course, that is something we need to keep a close eye on. Emergency repairs continue in the transitional legislation. I have a wonderful overview here and I am happy to share it with Mr Van Gerven, about what the prognosis is when all emergency locations will be completed. The CDA had another question about "from case-oriented to area-oriented." Where area-oriented is better than case-oriented, the government has the opportunity to make agreements on this. It's basically the same as it is now. Then there was the question of the CDA: the transitional right is finite and how do we prevent the new law from imposing a new obligation to clean up? You only have to clean up once. The transitional right ends when the Wbb reorganisation is completed. Then the pollution has just been dealt with. There is therefore no new obligation to clean up under the Environmental Act. We've had the emergency locations. There was another question from Mr Van Gerven. He rightly referred to the letter I recently sent to the Chamber about the Soil Quality Scheme. I have tightened the rules on the amount of foreign soil which may be in sludge, for example, which may be used to drown in lakes. Only sporadic plastics will be allowed to be present in the future. These rules are simply continued under the Environmental Act and they end up in the Ball via the Supplementary Decree. So the rules we have just agreed on will continue and they will be placed in the new system. So they also work with this for future projects. That was another question. There was another question from GroenLinks about the balance between agriculture and drinking water, whether there could be a tension there. So there goes the Drinking Water Act that doesn't go into the Environment Act. The Drinking Water Act makes demands on which water you can use to make drinking water and these do not change with this Environment Act. You can't turn every water into drinking water. That is what the Drinking Water Act makes specific demands on. They do not change, so there is no direct tension of drinking water, or I choose agriculture. We have also been asked when the Supplementary Decision soil will come. The veil will come to your room in the first or second quarter of next year. I think that's how I answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u68	I'll take a look at the members before we move on to the second term. Have there been any unanswered questions? That doesn't seem to be the case. Then I would like to continue with the second term of office, with Mrs Laan as the first speaker. It indicates that there is no need for a second-term contribution. I call Mr Smeulders. I propose a speaking time of two or three minutes. You have all kept to your speaking time in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u69	Mr. Chairman. I think we can do that. There was one more question that was open to us, about the coincidences and about what the municipality is doing and what the province is doing. I experienced myself when I was alderman in Helmond that leaking barrels were found and that the province was the competent authority. The Secretary of State is now firmly saying that the municipality really is the competent authority. Is this going to lead to a shift of powers? I'm just really curious about that. I think it is important that it is clear who the competent authority is. At such a time, it cannot be the intention that there should be maintenance and that the various public organisations should look at each other. I have three motions I'd like to table. I'm gonna read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are minimum protection standards for soil quality in the current legal system;]] [[Whereas the new system lays down lower standards of soil quality;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the level of protection of soil quality remains at least equal in lower regulation and is preferably improved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34864-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u70	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Soil Protection Act provides that the person who pollutes the soil must also pay the cost of the clean-up;]] [[whereas the UNG is concerned as to whether this is still the case in the new system;]] [[states that this "polluter pays" principle remains the starting point in the new Environmental Law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34864-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u71	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that drinking water companies are concerned about ensuring the quality of surface and ground water;]] [[Whereas the new system lays down, to a large extent, the standards for soil quality and hence the protection of surface and ground water;]] [[points out that the quality of drinking water must always be at the forefront;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the drinking water companies and other interested parties on how to ensure the protection of the quality of surface and ground water during the preparation of the Supplementary Decision, and to inform the Court of Justice on the outcome of such consultations in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34864-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate in the first period shows how technical and how complicated the issue is, but I think we have had a good debate on it. There's one more thing sticking with me. This is about recording the 150,000 cases of soil pollution that will remain behind and which will only be picked up at the time of spatial development. I've prepared a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas soil pollution is still a major bottleneck for drinking water supply;]] [[noting that more than 150 000 cases of soil contamination will remain in the soil which will only be picked up if spatial developments occur;]] [[noting that information on soil pollution through provinces and municipalities is not sufficiently accessible to third parties;]] [[calls on the Government to include information on soil pollution with priority in the Basic Registration Underground,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34864-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u73	Mr. Chairman. The debate has indeed been an occasional technical brain-cracker, but we are happy to go further. I'm sure there'll be light again at the end of the tunnel. First of all, something from the conclusion of the Secretary of State: that surface water pollution at Over de Maas. Is in the new situation such a case then the province the authority to maintain? So that is another specific question. A second specific question, about water. If groundwater is threatened, is there a need for mandatory clean-up? Let me ask you again. Then two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Soil Supplement Act removes the obligation to clean up from the Soil Protection Act;]] [[calls on the Government to include in its instructions for local authorities an overall obligation to clean up contaminated areas;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34864-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u74	Mr. Chairman. I am aware that we have already deliberated extensively on what is in this motion, but I want to get it as sharp as possible, so that is why. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities are given responsibility for soil pollution in the scheme of the Environmental Law and that they are faced with new costs;]] [[considers that tackling soil pollution is too important to leave behind due to costs;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipalities are adequately funded to build up knowledge for their new tasks and to carry out these tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34864-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u75	Mr. Chairman. The latter is, of course, to increase the dowry to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u76	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u77	Mr President, not a motion on my part, but a number of comments and a few questions. It is indeed complex matter. A "technical braincracker," it was just called and that's how it feels. We are concerned about the knowledge of pollution and how to deal with it, about how it is transferred, about the capacity of municipalities in general in relation to the Environment Act and the support we will receive. The Minister says she's going to see if anything is needed, but we really hope that this will happen. We find it complicated and I think that municipalities themselves find it complicated. The polluter pays. It is good to hear that this principle remains valid. At least that's reassuring. There is still a question open from the first term. The reorganisations would now be completed at a certain date. The Minister or the Secretary of State, I don't remember exactly who said this again, but it indicates that according to a covenant, they will be completed for a certain period of time. Is that what all these cleanups are about? That is not entirely clear to me. I think that the question put by the CDA, in the form of a motion, is very good: does the knowledge about the reorganisations still stand? If we have not cleaned it up before a certain date, it is important that we at least know what is in the soil so that we can take action in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u78	Thank you. I'm looking at both regiments. I imagine they'd like to suspend briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u79	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. May I begin by apologizing to Mr Ván Gerven? For I have consistently called him "Mr Gerven," and that is not his name. So I'm sorry, and I won't do that again, Mr. Van Gerven. Mr. Chairman. I will respond to two motions. The Secretary of State will answer a number of questions and deal with the other motions. Then you'd better know. The first motion on which I would like to say a few words, and then I would like to go a little further on the content of this motion is the motion in part No. 15, by Mr Ronnes. That motion concerns the issue we also discussed in the first term, which is 150,000 pollution. I said in the first term: you can't do everything at once, so it was chosen to start with 26 objects, including important topics that have social value. Those 150,000 cases should actually be seen as a kind of risk list of situations where pollution could occur. It is of course important to have that knowledge and that knowledge is there. I also said that it must never be the case that the change in the system leads to the disappearance of that knowledge. That's what's being taken care of. In the BRO steering group are the IPO, the VNG and other so-called source holders, for example the drinking water companies. There the prioritisation is also discussed and weighed. That all fits in with that step-by-step approach, where I just said: these are the first 26; they can always be chosen to add something. I think that's how it could be. I think we should look within the current program at how we get the soil restoration data in that BRO. I give this explanation and then look at the motion and say: as it stands here, to the letter, it's just something different than the step-by-step approach I'm just describing. But if Mr Ronnes says that he can get out of the way with that explanation, then perhaps he could see reason to hold or amend the motion, or we could otherwise find each other on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u81	I would like to see if I can adjust the motion in such a way that at least I put that step-by-step approach in it, but the final result must be that there really is a complete and good overview of where potential pollution is in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u82	I'm very happy to hear that, because then I think we can find each other. This is also very important for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u83	So the motion is being modified?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u84	I'm gonna see if I can adjust the motion in that form, with some additions or adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u85	Then what is the Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u86	Then I assume that Mr Ronnes will have modified the motion in such a way that I would like to leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u87	I also have a question. Can the Minister indicate the time limit for this step-by-step approach? By what time could it have been achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u88	That is a good and also a fair question from Mr Van Gerven, but I find it difficult to state that precisely. I can promise you there will be attention to that. It was already on the agenda, and it is now even more strongly on the agenda for this debate. It should not lie down or anything like that either, but I should then find out exactly what the planning is in order to indicate that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u89	Could the Chamber perhaps be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u90	It could be. Maybe I can do it very quickly and I can report it as well. That was all in the wake of the motion in part No. 15, by Mr Ronnes. Then I come to the motion on part No. 17, by Mr Van Gerven. That motion is based on the financial resources. I'm going to try to see if we're closer to each other than we seem at first glance. I have just said that agreements have been made on the financial consequences of the change in the system and its introduction. The deal about the transition is that each board layer bears its own costs. We have also said that if savings are made as a result of the change in the system, because, for example, things become simpler, which are not being skimmed. They remain with the municipality or the administrative layer that has achieved the savings. They can then use them according to cases. I also said that we are providing support and implementation guidance. The same goes for soil here. In other words, I think it is very important that there is sufficient support and that the municipalities do not suffer from this change of system or, more importantly, that they can keep any additional income themselves. But when I read in the motion 'you have to put money in it', Mr Van Gerven and I have lost each other again. I'm asking him if he means his motion like I'm saying or if he's saying that money has to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u91	Of course, I don't know if there's any money to go to. It is assumed that the change in the system will lead to cost savings. The proceeds can be used by the municipality for quality. Then let me ask you this. It's all being monitored, I suppose, and clearly kept in mind what that operation costs, what it costs the municipalities and so on compared to now. What if the municipalities get worse? What's the minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u92	Now I understand Mr Van Gerven well, but with that I fear that we have not gotten any closer, because with this motion he says that in such a case he already wants to agree that money will be added. I'm assuming this isn't necessary. I assume that, in some sense, municipalities will also be able to invest in this. I would advise against the motion, because the explanation given by Mr Van Gerven is now clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u93	Finally, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u94	I ask this because the cabinet assumes that this new law will lead to savings, but it could also lead to less savings. We have discussed whether it could not also lead to more bureaucracy and legalisation, which in turn leads to costs. Hence my motion. I understand that we are not entirely in agreement, but at least that is recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u95	That's right. Madam President. Finally, I can say to Mr Van Gerven in reply to his question just now that there is a process, as I just outlined. But that process doesn't provide for a timetable. The topics are inventoried and discussed and business cases are made. Then the pace will be determined. I cannot say exactly when this is going to happen in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u96	Amendments have also been tabled, I understand. They're being treated by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u97	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u98	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the motion by Mr Smeulders and Mrs Kröger on item No. 12, which calls for the minimum level of protection of soil quality in the lower regulation to be maintained. If Mr Smeulders replaces the word 'equal' with 'equivalent', then I can give this motion a Chamber. That's because the system of the Environment Act controls that equivalence. Ultimately, its impact is important for the environment. If, therefore, Mr Smeulders wishes to make it 'equivalent', then this motion can be left to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u100	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u101	Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 13. It is not really up to me to judge it, because the Chamber is making a statement here. She speaks out something that is the essence of what we record with each other in the Environment Act. I could also say that the motion is superfluous, but since the Chamber itself pronounces it, I leave it to her, of course. Then the motion to part No. 14, which calls on the Government to consult with the drinking water companies to see how concerns can be removed and secured and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 15 has been dealt with by the Minister. There was another question about the accidental finding of a leaking vessel: who is the move? The city's up to it. But if it has to do with groundwater quality, it does so in cooperation with the province. Very often you will see that this cooperation is important, but it is the municipality that is the move. Then I come to Mr Van Gerven. He first had the question of who the competent authority is in a situation like that with the Meuse. The water manager will then be competent authority. At Over de Maas that is Rijkswaterstaat but at other locations that can also be a waterboard. That's the thing about the peeing. The bodies of water have their own authority. Mr Van Gerven asked: if groundwater is threatened, is it compulsory to clean up? To avoid confusion of speech, I don't think every pollution is a threat right away. Sometimes the discussions run counter to each other. If there is a real threat, it is logical that the province responsible for this should say that there is indeed a need to clean up, but not every pollution is also a threat. It's really customized to see if that's necessary. That means that I have the Van Gerven motion in part No. 16, which calls for an overall obligation to clean up contaminated areas, should be discouraged. The emergency locations, where there really is a threat, have been arranged. There is still an obligation to clean up, but an overall obligation to clean up is not there for every pollution; it is not now and will not be. Within the standards and frameworks we set for this, the decision is up to the municipality. That is the construction of that system. A number of emergency areas have been identified where this rehabilitation is urgent. That is also what has been agreed. That's all being dealt with, too. That is even under the old rules. There is still an obligation to clean up, but there is no general obligation to say that any pollution must be repaired immediately, so the motion is not recommended in its present form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u102	Short, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u103	I'm holding the motion, given the discussion. We may then come back to this later, assuming that the obligation to clean up will also apply to the new rules, but only to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u104	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (34864 No. 16) by the Court of Justice. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u105	Mrs Van Eijs asked if any arrangements had been made for the rehabilitation of all emergency sites. A whole set of agreements has indeed been made for the real emergency sites with serious contaminants. They remain under the old regulations and that is what we call the emergency locations. They are not all 150 000, but in response to the motion the Minister gave a clear answer, I think. Those emergency sites are actually a sub-category for which those specific reorganisation arrangements have been made. Then there are two other amendments to which I would like to respond. The Van Eijs amendment to point No. 10 refers to the fact that there is a chance that there may be a significant threat to the quality of drinking water supplies when the contamination found can reach groundwater. I have already said that I can imagine that we are extending it to this indirect exposure, so I leave this amendment to the Court's opinion. The Van Gerven amendment to item No. 11 actually says that we should apply the old law to all the pollutants that were known, not the serious contaminants or threats we have agreed on. Then you keep that for a long time two legislative systems apply side by side. That does not seem to us to be a good idea, so this amendment to item No. 11 is why I have to advise against it. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u106	On Mrs Van Eijs's amendment, I would like to ask how the Secretary of State defines the term 'indirect'. What does that mean? Can we give an example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u107	That might be the leaky keg. If the leaking keg is near a drinking water area, it may not be a direct risk to public health, because it is not in the middle of a residential area, but if it could pose a risk to public health through groundwater, because it is close to a drinking water intake point, I can imagine that it would apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u108	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-13-tweedekamer-16.u109	We will vote on the motions and amendments tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State.
