ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, including the young people in the public gallery. Today we are discussing the continuation of the treatment of the Supervisory Trust Office Act 2018 (34910). We have arrived at the second term of office. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	We are talking today in this second part of the debate on the tax avoidance industry, because we are talking about trust offices. They are a nice hiding place for oligarchs from Russia and Ukraine; for people who want to keep assets out of sight of their tax authorities, for example, not to pay taxes, or to make those behind money anonymous, what the purpose of the money is or where it comes from. This leads to the financing of crime, terrorism and trafficking in human beings. And let us not forget: we are also robbing developing countries empty, because companies through the Netherlands are avoiding or avoiding taxes. Today, in Het Financieele Dagblad, we read that the developing countries in Africa see 30% of their profits evaporate because there are countries, such as the Netherlands, which have a tax-friendly environment, but simply encourage tax avoidance. The Netherlands is in the top five. You can be proud of that. By the way, the Netherlands tax haven is not necessarily for people, but certainly for multinationals. Today we are talking about a sector of more than 200 offices and 40,000 target companies under management. Should we have one of those sectors? The SP doesn't think so, but as long as it is there and it sucks through 4,245 billion a year, we must, of course, be tough on that sector. The law we are discussing today is an attempt to do so. For the financial sector: if something is not prohibited, it is allowed. Something that in ordinary human contact without legal prohibitions leads to the moral awareness that you do not do something is absent in the financial sector. Look at the gambling with ordinary people's money that plunged us into a financial crisis ten years ago. Look at how speculation is made with countries and their currencies, making coins, as well as the euro, permanently uncertain. And the blows that fall are not felt in the financial sector itself; the uncertainty that this creates is always in the real economy. That's why nursing homes close down. As a result, there are waiting lists in youth care and mental health care. This means, for example, that we have to break down the social workshop. And when it comes to Africa or developing countries, we see that economies cannot grow and cannot build the facilities needed for the future of the country. The tax evasion industry, the tax advisory practice, but also the financial world, so anything that sustains it, should not complain when the stolen prosperity and prospects of prosperity in countries, such as Africa, are ultimately hálded by people. Do you want to ward off economic refugees by building walls or by leaving the money where it belongs? That is also a real question today, and at this time altogether. Trust offices and their supervision are part of the financial world, which therefore only perceive legal boundaries as borders. Because if it's not in the law, it's in the law. I have tried to improve the law on four points by making it clearer. Thanks to the Ministry for the consultation. I think that the amended amendment to item No. 16, with that addition to Article 23, which now makes it clear that if you cannot reasonably determine who it is, then you do not provide services. It also meets exactly what I actually meant. I hope that the Minister will also see this as an improvement. If we adopt proposal 15 as a Chamber, we can arrange that trust offices no longer provide tax advice. It's choosing or sharing: either you create structures, you're the architect, or you're the builder; but you don't do both. I think that's a good line for a sector without a moral compass. I hope the Minister will give me a positive opinion. With proposal 14 I would like to say that we can declare certain structures, certain building drawings, to be no-go. That was an opinion from De Nederlandsche Bank at the parliamentary interrogation committee on tax constructions. In the spirit of the bill, I have put it so that it provides a framework and you can fill it out when it has to. We'll make that possible. If we see in the future that a particular design or tax route is being abused, we can fill it out. Should that not be necessary at all... that would be a surprise to me.. then you do not use the provision in the end. My last proposal to improve the law is in proposal 10. This ensures that a trust office like a pop stage, a political party, the Second Chamber, a football organization, a hospital, so on and on, gets an audit of the annual accounts. Then I have two more motions. The supervisor, De Nederlandsche Bank, asks for better internal supervision, an internal employee who supervises compliance with laws and regulations within the trust office. It's governed by the law. I also understand that the Minister is already coming up with a clear overview in the field, so that you do not have to get it everywhere to find out exactly what the intention is. I think we had enough discussion last week. So I didn't prepare a motion for that. I did that on DNB's request for a supervisory board of a trust office. Of this, the Minister says that they are small trust offices and that it may be detrimental if we do so. I get that, too. I also see that the governance model, as it is, does not guarantee good external supervision at all, but I do think it sends out a signal that the supervisor is calling for better internal and external supervision. Perhaps, if we are not going to work with a supervisory board or a supervisory board system, we should set up the Dutch Bank in order to better monitor the sector itself. As far as I'm concerned, we let De Nederlandsche Bank be on the floor more often and look into the files. That is why I have the next motion, together with my colleague Nijboer from the Labour Party. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to increase significantly the number of FTEs monitoring the trust sector and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34910-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	The Minister did not want to go into a doubling last week. He said, "Maybe they don't need it at all and suddenly they're stuck with all these people." I think it is best to use them, but at least a'significant increase' shows the political commitment that we want to get a better grip on the sector. That's what the bill is about. Then I have something theoretical or legal which should be an improvement in the legislative proposal, namely the assumption of social benevolence as a standard. We'll explain that legally. The judge's checking. There's a point, though, in introducing that standard. Actually, I'd like to support that. I think we can take it a little further. That may not be possible with this bill, but with the further elaboration, for example because the Council of State and the Netherlands Bank gave opinions on it. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that De Nederlandsche Bank recommends a broader application of the standard of social bespokeness and that it should also apply to creators (feeders) of structures such as lawyers, notaries, accountants and fiscalists;]] [[noting that the Council of State argues that social equality is too broad a wording;]] [[calls on the government to formulate what it means by social benevolence and how it intends to apply it to the whole of the fiscal sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34910-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. As long as the Netherlands is a black fiscal hole, these are not my words, but the words of Mr Moscovici, European Commissioner for Finance, for many companies and people through the Netherlands can put a lot of capital away from the tax authorities in our country and in other countries, as long as we are all okay with that, we can build laws that we want, but that is a bit of a roof pan right while the whole roof needs to be replaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. Mr Nijboer has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already considered in the first period what the role of the trust sector in society is and that we have great reservations about it. We have reservations at all about the existence of this sector. I don't want to do that again here. I would just like to stress that I support a number of Mr Leijten's proposals. I also think that the motion and the amendments are good additions to the law. I'd like to make one more motion myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a heavy obligation on trust firms to conduct extensive customer investigations;]] [[Whereas the trust sector has very high integrity risks;]] [[whereas supervisor DNB advises to make a supervisory board mandatory;]] [[calls on the Government to examine a form of mandatory supervisory board at trust offices and to submit a proposal to the House of Representatives for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34910-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	This motion is actually in line with the gatekeeper function that is attributed to trust offices. However, it is questionable whether your trust offices, which depend on paying clients, can give such a heavy responsibility for the financial integrity of the financial system. That remains at the heart of this bill. It's better than the law as it is now, so the PvdA will support that bill. However, the PvdA continues to doubt the core idea that you are giving such private offices, which are completely dependent and play the director on paper, a function and such a role in keeping black money away, combating money laundering and combating terrorist financing. The PvdA continues to fundamentally doubt whether this is actually a wise form of organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to the CDA, regulating the trust sector is actually also about how we achieve a fairer economy. So this is about regulating the trust sector. The law as it stands is an important step forward. We are not talking about all kinds of tax constructions here today. We'll get it. We are therefore very pleased with the proposals that the cabinet intends to make on withholding tax on interest and royalties. We do consider it important that this regulation should take place as soon as possible. There will still be a lot of work to be done and to be improved in the course of time, but we do want to speed things up. That is why we very much want this to become law as soon as possible. An important point in the discussion we had was compliance. Do you have to do that internally or externally? The opinion of the CDA Group is that, if you want to go to a professional and well-regulated trust sector, you need professional organisations. We believe that internal compliance is appropriate. We have also had a discussion about what social bespokeness is. In the CDA's view, social bespokeness is based above all on what the ordinary Dutchman thinks. We want to prevent this from becoming a kind of theoretical discussion for only financial professionals. We want to show a more solid voice in how we see social behavior, giving society a voice in it. That's why I've been with... Now I see I've got the wrong motion in front of me. I apologize. I have tabled a motion with Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	You are supported by Mr Van der Linde. He's bringing the right motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	That is not so much support for the motion, but in the sense that I get the right text, for which I am grateful. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that DNB is instructed in the Supervisory Trust Office Act 2018 to establish policy rules that monitor how trust offices and their employees fulfil the requirement of socially decent;]] [[whereas the concept of social bespokeness can be interpreted in different ways, as we have also seen in the discussion on a controlled remuneration policy in the financial sector;]] [[whereas a strict interpretation is preferable to a loose interpretation in the light of social interests;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with DNB the implementation of the concept of social welfare (one year after entry into force) and to indicate the Court's desire for strict interpretation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34910-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	I was done, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	Okay. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	We both talked about that social benevolence last week. What difference does your motion make from mine? We're actually asking the same thing. Could we look at merging?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	I had not seen it at the time when you had spoken the text. I have heard it and I have heard a lot of things about recognizability in it. At the end of the day, you put a great deal of emphasis on the point of taxation, but at the time when we can find a comparison, it does not stand in my way. I first looked at what I thought was important, which I then said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	I think that my motion would add an element, and that is that social benevolence, as far as I am concerned as strictly as possible, your motion goes a little further than my motion is going to apply to those who make the drawings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	I just want to take a close look and actually hear what the cabinet has to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you. I call Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Madam President. A week between the first and the second term gives, of course, a good opportunity to look at this subject again with a fresh look and at the Minister's response. So thank you for that planning. It also gives time to bring new information. This weekend it was announced that many banks refused to transfer money to Mossack Fonseca trust office, notorious for the Panama Papers. These include Barclays, Deutsche Bank, Bank of America, UBS and Credit Suisse. They all refused to transfer money over the last two years because of reputational risks, internal policies or compliance reasons. That makes a lot of sense to us if you know the Panama Papers or at least their excerpts. It is striking that some Dutch banks did not see compliance risks. ING, Rabobank, ATB and Yapi Kredi Bank Nederland continued to transfer money to Starsight intermediate office. I asked the Minister last week about ING Belgium. They've been summoned by their finance minister. The minister would find out if there has been contact with ING. Then contact in a state-of-the-art sense, he indicated. Even when I look at the news from last weekend, I found that answer somewhat malnourished. Last weekend's news confirms the image of a problem here. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister to contact ING and Rabobank about why they did not see a compliance risk despite the Panama Papers, despite Mossack Fonseca's reputation and despite warnings from DNB. If we want to get rid of the reputation of the Netherlands, then there is an important role here with the banks. Mr. Chairman. We expect a cultural change within the sector. It's not gonna come on its own. We are asking for a new set-up of trust offices where compliance function and audit function are firmly established, but I also hope that the Minister will make an effort to conduct normo-treating talks and to indicate where the border lies. Mr Slootweg's motion, which I would like to join, also helps with that. I am also looking forward to answering our questions on how small offices can properly fulfil their compliance function according to the Minister. Last week, the Minister undertook to consult with DNB on this matter. A strong monitor with teeth is important because that means enough men and women to effectively monitor and suspend opportunities for longer periods when DNB feels that this is necessary, for example when someone has already made a culpable mistake several times, three strikes out. The Minister didn't think that was a crazy idea either, and I'm happy about that. Thank you for that. If every week it turns out that the stain is getting bigger and bigger, it's clear that we need to get a grip on this. The Minister has a basket of cases he will discuss with DNB in connection with this legal process. I ask him if he can send a letter to the Chamber about the results of these talks, including as regards the establishment of the compliance function at small offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr Paternotte is right to talk about the news that is still unheard of that banks simply continue to transfer money to Mossack Fonseca trust office/lawyer office in this case, when you know that the place was not very good. The Panama Papers came from that. If you call on the Minister to enter into the conversation with these banks, would it not be good for those banks to even look at how they deal with the principle of 'know who the customer is'? Something we're going to get tighter and tighter for the trust offices, but wouldn't it be good if we did the same for the banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	I think that is one of the things that I think should be discussed with the banks. I think the banks will say: in this case, it was not that we deliberately wanted to cooperate with an office that was known for a lot of crooked practices, but that they simply did not have that customer in mind in this respect. So that seems like a very legitimate subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	Sure. But you're asking the Minister to at least contact those banks. What those banks are going to answer is up to them. I do not think that we need to formulate this for them; at least I would not. But it strikes me that when there was something so big as the Panama Papers it was really front-page news everywhere, as discussed last week, heads of government have fallen on it that then with big banks, who have so much responsibility and image, does not also ring a bell, from 'hey, we're going to go through everything'. What does Mr Paternotte say about the internal supervision of large banks in 'what do we do and do we know our customers'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	That is why I am raising this point. If you can see that Deutsche Bank, UBS, Credit Suisse, Barclays are a few of the largest European banks taking clear steps here and saying "we don't do business with this party anymore" and ING and Rabobank do, it doesn't fit the profile that ING and Rabobank see for themselves, and that really is a good reason for a very strong conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his first-term answers. I am glad that we were able to hold the second term of this debate before the summer recess. All the sympathy for colleagues who would have liked to have included other debates in this legislative proposal, but then we will be another year. Maybe this isn't an optimal bill, but at least we're taking a few big steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mrs Leijten, Mr Van der Linde has spoken for 21 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yes, chairman, and he's talking about his colleagues in the Chamber who would delay a bill for a year, which is pure bullshit. My request last week was to vote on this bill immediately after the summer, because we are therefore having the debate on the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Fiscal Constructions. That could be a week's delay, I say. Because do you really think, I would like to ask Mr Van der Linde, that if we adopt this Thursday, the First Chamber will cut it short before the summer recess? Of course not. So it would have been a delay of a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u30	I believe that this debate has been held, about postponement and so on. But you have a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u31	But I'm not gonna let you delay me for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u32	No, you've made that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u33	Let me give Mrs Leijten a proper answer. The problem is, of course, if you really want to take care of something else, then there must be another bill, or this bill must be amended so that it has to go back to the Council of State. That's just a delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u34	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u36	Yes, but this procedural discussion has already taken place. Why do we have to do it again in second term? Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u37	Amending the law never has to be done through the Council of State, so Mr Van der Linde is really doing a bit of ridiculing his colleagues. He shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u38	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u39	Yes, Chairman, I didn't hear a question. Mr President, I had asked the Minister a number of specific questions. The first was about circumventing the Supervisory Trust Office Act. Earlier, the Minister said that we are taking a big step, but we are not there yet. I agree with him. I suspect that in the long term we will come to a tightening-up. However, I welcome the Minister's commitment to continue monitoring it and to review the law within three to five years. At one point I really didn't get enough answers for my taste. That's about the internal compliance officer. The Minister explains precisely why he has reached this decision. At the same time, I still don't see how this is going to fly in an office with three or four people. Personally, I think it would be much more beneficial in those cases to get someone from outside. Anyway, given the POFC and given the sound of DNB I do not suspect that I have any majority on this point. So I would ask the Minister to include this explicitly in the evaluation we have in three to five years' time. I just wanted to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you. I'm going to see the Minister now. I think you've got all the motions by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u41	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u42	Then you can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u43	Can I have 30 seconds to sort it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u44	Yeah, that's okay. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Members for the questions and comments and for the second-term motions. In my view, a small number of questions remained from the first term. A few members just returned to that in the second term of the Chamber. Let me say a few words about that. I start with the question by Mr Nijboer and Mr Paternotte last week: how many offices are there with two employees? I answered the question about one employee. With the question about two employees, it is complicated that the number of employees of trust offices is nowhere formally registered. However, we can conclude from the annual reports DNB receives from the trust offices that 28% of the trust offices now have one director and that the rest have at least two. That is the answer I can give to Mr Nijboer and Mr Paternotte. Mr Slootweg asked: is there a need for a transitional period for an internal compliance function in relation to current contracts? In principle, trust offices have already been able to prepare for the adjustment. Of course, they also have six months to adjust the organisation of work, because the intended entry into force is 1 January 2019 if everything goes as planned in the First Chamber. Most contracts do indeed have a standard notice period. So there's no reason to believe it wouldn't go well. But signals about problems can of course always be reported to DNB. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte asked whether I would like to contact him on the basis of what was in the newspaper this week. Yes, I do, but just for the record, the responsibility is obvious for banks themselves when it comes to customer acceptance. It is then up to DNB to assess whether a bank also complies with the legal frameworks. That's how we do it formally. I could agree with the words Mr Paternotte used. He was talking about "normatory conversations." My impression is that every conversation I've had with bankers over the last nine months had at least a few elements of "normal transfer" in it, if not that the whole conversation consisted of. So, both in a general sense and specifically in relation to this example, I would like to say this, but I would like to give a clear outline of who is actually the primary concern here. Because that's DNB, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u46	I do think that standards are very important. To be honest, I had come forward here to ask a very clear question about the previous point. So let me do that first. It was about how many offices there are with a very limited number of employees in relation to the compliance function. I understand the minister says 28% of trust offices have one director. We also saw that information coming through the interrogation committee. In one case, it was one driver without employees. Last time I asked how many offices there are that really only consist of one person. The Minister said: that is not one of them. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u47	That is my impression, because we checked that last time. We also had a somewhat longer discussion about it last time. I can very well imagine that the consequence of this law is that smaller offices or will decide to merge or decide to stop. I think Mr Nijboer was on a slightly different line. By definition, he wants to make small offices impossible. In this context, Mr Paternotte has stepped up the Van de Kerkhof brothers who would be both directors, with one doing the compliance part and the other the audit function. You can't and you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u49	One final comment before I come to the amendments and the motions. Mr Van der Linden is concerned about the internal compliance officer. I understand his question. We will certainly take this into account in the evaluation, but I would suggest that I also mention this once more in the discussions with DNB, because they will certainly want to pay attention to this. For the record: I say this about all the suggestions made in the area of tightening up: the objective of all of us, including DNB, is to improve the system. That's what we're after. The same applies to the compliance function. That brings me to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u51	Last week I used the words 'not a crazy thought' in the amendment to item No. 8 by Mr Nijboer and Mr Paternotte. That was obviously an understatement. I should like to leave the opinion on that amendment to the House. I would like to thank Mrs Leijten for the constructive dialogue, but her amendment No. I'll do 16 at the end. First of all, I come to the amendment to item No. 10 on the mandatory audit. I'm gonna have to advise against that. In my opinion, I have argued in the debate why this is not about the accountant not checking the trust office itself, but the customer. As far as I am concerned, that does not make any sense. Mr Nijboer proposes in his Amendment No. 12, as I understand it, that there would be at least three instead of two policy makers, but I must advise against that amendment because we believe that this is in line with what I have just said that this is not proportionate to what is required of other financial companies. In the amendment to item No. 14 is about a ban on the provision of services to certain structures. I should also advise against this, but I understand that the amendment is partly based on the suggestion of DNB. We have really taken a serious look at it and consulted with DNB, but I have nevertheless concluded that defining and delimiting the undesirable structures is simply not possible. Instead, some tightenings have been made in the client investigation. Mrs Leijten will recognize that, but I have gone into this in detail in the note on the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u52	Shortly, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u53	What we are adding here is that there is a possibility of regulating a ban on certain structures. You can fill that out, you can't fill it out, but it fits the system of the law as framework law. Why does the Minister even reject that? He may not think it desirable at the moment, but if we find out in a year's time or in the evaluation that it is a missed opportunity, it will be another two-year legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u54	If that were the case, we'd have to act on a case-by-case basis. We really tried to weigh this carefully. We've definitely involved DNB. This is the conclusion of that discussion. I have also tried to say this very carefully in the written procedure. I come to the amendment to item No. 15 from Mrs Leijten on trust offices and their group and should never give tax advice. However, this would greatly restrict the activities of a trust office and its group in the field of services. I should also advise against that amendment. That brings me to the amendment to item No. 16 by Mrs Leijten on reasonable doubt and no service. I thank her for puzzling with the Ministry. We believe that this is an improvement, so I leave the assessment of this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u55	Okay. The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u56	Which brings me to the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 17 by Mrs Leijten. It calls for a substantial extension. We are crossing a border that I do not think I should want to cross, because DNB is the independent supervisor. I would like to say this to Mrs Leijten. I think tomorrow is my next meeting with Mr Knot, but it could also be next week. In that conversation I will discuss again with him whether he himself thinks he needs more capacity and, if so, whether there are barriers there. That is what I would like to say to Mrs Leijten. But I do not think that I should want to decide on significant enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mrs. Leijten, what are you going to do with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u58	I'm just gonna have her put to the vote. Let the Chamber decide whether we want to have not only a strict law, but also a supervisory authority with more than 12 full-time employees overseeing this sector. But I would like to ask the Minister to let us know what came out of the discussion, especially in the light of the debate after the summer on the parliamentary interrogation committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u60	Of course. Frankly, I would suggest that I do so anyway, with a number of other points which have been raised by Mr Paternotte, among others. I will therefore bring to Mr Knot's attention some of the issues before the recess. I imagine I'll send a letter after the summer. I'd like to weigh up whether I do that right after the summer, or after the bill in the Upper House. But at least I will discuss this with Mr Knot. Before the end of this calendar year, I will also return to each of these subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u61	The minister says he's having that conversation tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u62	Yeah, tomorrow or next week. I don't know my schedule by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u63	Well, this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u64	We're not going to discuss the agenda, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u65	No. Anyway, we have eight weeks of recess. After the recess, we are going to have that debate about the parliamentary interrogation committee. I would like to know, before that debate, how DNB reacted to the suggestion that the supervision of trust offices should be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u66	I'm fine with that. What I was concerned about was that I think it would be wise to come back to the Chamber on the whole palette of subjects, so Mr Paternotte's basket I should come back to. Then let's do it like this. I will discuss this with Mr Knot and I will come back to that after the summer. That brings me to the motion on social benevolence. Last week I also tried to say that social benevolence is a factual observation. We refer to Article 626 of the Civil Code. It is not for me to fill in that social bespokeness, because that is an open standard. DNB's gonna have to check on that. So I can't describe that either. So I need the motion in part no. 18 dissuaded. I say to Mrs Leijten that, of course, I can also discuss this with DNB. That brings me to the motion in part No. 19, by Mr Nijboer. I really understand his question in that regard, and we have also examined that possibility. I must advise against the motion, because we really have a strong impression that we have built in sufficient safeguards. Nor does it suit a sector with so many relatively small offices. However, I would like to assure Mr Nijboer that we are also firmly part of the dialogue with DNB and the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u67	And what's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u68	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. The verdict is that I must discourage the motion; I thought that was clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u69	I am curious how the Minister sees this dialogue, because DNB has just said that this must be done. So if, bearing in mind this motion, you enter into dialogue, you agree quickly and I do know the conclusion: then the motion will be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u70	No, I think the point is that the moment the law is introduced, you want to see if it's working properly. Of course, I will also discuss this with DNB. That applies to this subject, but I think there are a few more. But I have to advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u71	Please continue. The motion in part No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. I have just said what I can and what I cannot do about social behavior. So I can't color the social bespokeness myself. I can say in the conversation with DNB how much the Chamber hangs on this, and I can also talk about it. So the motion in part No. 20, I can leave judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u73	The Paternotte had another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u74	Yes, one more question about the motion in part No. 19 by Mr Nijboer. I wondered whether the verdict would still be dissuaded if the motion did not precede making a proposal but asked whether it would be desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u75	For the record, we have examined and weighed it, and also in the consultation with DNB, we have come to the conclusion that this is an unnecessarily heavy tool for a sector with many small parties. So we've come to that conclusion. I have said this on another subject: we are going to do a lot of new things here to make legislation stricter, and let us also be honest that we do not yet know exactly what the very best formula will be in practice. So that's what we're going to find out experimentally. So I would like to monitor that very closely, but going back on the path that has been taken does not seem to me to be a good idea. (NL) Mr President, I think that I have all provided an opinion on the amendments and the motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-3.u77	This brings us to the end of the treatment of the Supervisory Trust Office Act 2018. The amendments and motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow.
