ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with Mrs Marijnissen's question on behalf of the SP to the Prime Minister on new information on dividend taxation. I call Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. He has the credibility of his party for it. The Prime Minister also has the credibility of his cabinet for it. And he even gave it the credibility of our democracy. The dividend debacle, because a debacle, I think we can call it. At first, there were no pieces. Well, there were pieces back then. At first, there were no memories. There were memories back then. At first, there were no tests. Well, there were tests back then. First it would cost 1.4 billion, then 1.6, now possibly 2 billion. And what turned out to be last Friday? Last Friday it appeared that our Prime Minister has been working on his personal project since 2010: abolishing the dividend tax. And, Mr President, it has not been so long since we stood in this Chamber and talked for ten hours, questioned the Prime Minister for ten hours, the Prime Minister had to dig into his memory for ten hours, dig into his thoughts, to come to those memories. And he came to a memory. He came to the memory of one piece. One piece would be about abolishing the dividend tax. But that was a party piece, so that didn't really count. It was a piece of his own VVD. So, what's next? Since last Friday, after once again good work by researchers in our country, it appears that there is not one piece at all about abolishing the dividend tax. There is a filing cabinet full of pieces about abolishing the dividend tax. As since 2010, this is our Prime Minister's personal project. My question to the Prime Minister today is therefore: who else does he think he can fool? When before he reached the border, he says, "I'm not giving that 2 billion to foreign shareholders. No, I invest it where it belongs, namely in our society."?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u3	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Last year, in various debates, we discussed the government's proposal to abolish the dividend tax. The question was also raised as to whether there were any documents within the framework of the formation. There was no memory of that at the time. In April we had a debate on the documents which appeared to have been on the table in the formation. What is at issue here is not a piece of formation, but documents which are simply part of the normal work of every minister and every prime minister. For example, that one piece from December 2010, which gives the impression that I was abolishing the dividend tax. That's not true. It is well known that a number of large companies in the Netherlands have been pleading for the abolition of the dividend tax for a long time. It makes sense that when a company like that visits me, I'm prepared for that. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Chairman. What the Prime Minister is doing here is referring back to the formation papers. That was also what happened in the debate. For example, we asked Alexander Pechtold: have there been pieces on the table? No, there wouldn't have been any pieces on the table. With which you think, there are no pieces. No, what was the joke? The piece wouldn't have been on the table. Rutte had come to Alexander Pechtold with the piece in his hand. Mr President, that is not the way to proceed, is it? The Prime Minister has been questioned for ten hours about the fact that until recently we thought that the abolition of the dividend tax had suddenly ended up in the coalition agreement. That's what I thought until recently. I had never read about it before in an election program, not even from the VVD. And that now turns out to be simply wrong. It seems to have been discussed for years. It turns out there's some notes written about it. There are officials who exchange views with each other. I'll just get an e-mail. One official then e-mails to another: we are looking for justification for the argument why abolishing dividend tax helps to prevent it. Then the other official e-mails back: empirical research on dividend tax distortions is not available. That turned out to be the case this summer. That's what makes the discussion so difficult. Mr President, how can the Prime Minister say once again today that these memories were not there? That there was only one piece, knowing that there was therefore a filing cabinet of pieces available and you have been working for years with the lobby of business to abolish the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mrs Marijnissen is confusing two things. We had a discussion in the context of the formation about which pieces were or were not on the table. That is what the debate was about last year and also the debate this year in April. This is about the normal documents that every minister and secretary of state gets in preparation for talks. I think it is well known that there are companies that have long been in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. It is therefore logical that when such a company visits, I am prepared for the fact that they will make a plea for it. Neither the government agreement of the first cabinet that I was allowed to lead nor the government agreement of the second cabinet that I was allowed to lead is anything about abolishing that dividend tax. That's what we decided in the formation of this cabinet. Then I come to the arguments. It is quite natural that officials should consult each other in areas and in order to ensure that dossiers are prepared, for example in preparation for debates in the Chamber. That's the usual official work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr. Chairman. The officials have been e-mailing themselves. We can tell by all those hundreds of pieces that have come up. But they didn't find an argument. Another official's answer was: I can't find it. Just like there is no decent economist to be found in the Netherlands who still supports this. Just like there is virtually no one left in the Netherlands to support this. Just like the fact that there are fewer and fewer people in the coalition who still support this. I wonder how long the Prime Minister will last. I conclude that the Prime Minister has been engaged all this time in discussing the abolition of the dividend tax, but that it has never been discussed here in the Chamber, where it should be discussed. Pats-boom it was in the coalition agreement! That's where our questions came from. So the Prime Minister promised the Dutch €1,000 all the time, promised higher wages, but in fact this Prime Minister's personal project was always: abolishing the dividend tax. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to be a prime minister for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr. Chairman. That conclusion doesn't add up. It is well known that a number of companies have long argued in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. What was new last year, even in the formation period? The fact that this type of company is now also at risk of being taken over. There's a lot of cheap money in the world. It has finally been the decision of this new coalition to make a coherent package of proposals for the investment climate, including in order to preserve the jobs of these very large companies. It remains unique that a smaller economy like the Netherlands has established this type of very large companies in the Netherlands. Those were the new developments in 2017. I would point out, for example, the situation with the Akzo company, which was in danger of being taken over. Unilever has been involved; that is all public knowledge. In the end, this cabinet decided, on the basis of a balance between all the pros and cons, to include this measure in a coherent package of measures for our investment climate, in order to protect this type of important employment for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u10	I'm glad the Prime Minister came straight away this time. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you have to be tough, said Mark Rutte of the week. Usually this is against people in welfare, against artists, labour restrictions, children. But why don't you give it a hard time when it's necessary against Shell and Unilever, when they come to ask an unreasonable question? Why should we not know, despite the heated debate and the many debates, what is being given to appreciation for the location climate on page 35 of the Friday's WOB opinions? Why is it still secret, almost a year after that, what our own people think of the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is one of the countries with the highest benefits and the most solid social security in the world. We're proud of each other. But that doesn't just pay itself; that money doesn't grow on a tree. The fact that we are able to have the best health care in Europe and one of the most generous social security systems in the world, and we can afford a fair and restrictive migration policy not only socially but also financially, is because we have companies in the Netherlands that pay the taxes. These companies create jobs. This is the reason, given the specific situation that arose in 2017, that this newly emerging coalition has decided to include this measure in a coherent package of measures, in order to prevent this type of very large company, which becomes sensitive to takeovers and where there is a risk of their leaving, from leaving. If you do not do this, you take an unacceptable risk with that possibility and that would be bad for the Netherlands. We can only lose this type of company once, I've said it before. ABN AMRO is still a beautiful institution, but it is only a shadow of the old bank operating worldwide. You can only lose an institution like this once, and if that threatens, you have to make sure you take all the measures to keep those companies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u12	Second question. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u13	That hardness against the people remains, the hardness against the multinationals is far from being sought. But in the meantime, something has happened since this plan was launched last year. The American Chamber of Commerce is against it. Rabobank points out in a recent study that this is bad for the location climate. So the whole reasoning we just heard isn't supported by the people who learned to do it. British investors are not waiting for it, Dutch investors are going to pay the bill for it. My question is as follows. We have seen that sometimes this cabinet makes a bend right in front of the wall. Why is there not a moment's thought about the incredibly harmful effect of this measure? The reasoning does not, does not, does not, is not supported and the account lies with the people. Why isn't there a moment of doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u14	Because of the large-scale effect of not taking this measure, namely the huge risk that some of the largest European companies would leave the Netherlands with their jobs, with their contribution to the uniqueness of our economy. I've said it before, the Netherlands is a small country playing in the Eredivisie, but if we don't do this, we're a medium-sized economy playing in the Jupiler League. Well, his name is different these days... The Kitchen Champion Division, I hear. The fact that I don't know about this does show that you don't want to end up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u15	Can the Prime Minister answer my question as to whether the cabinet is coming up with a stand-alone proposal on the sole abolition of the existing 15% dividend tax and that it is not linked to anything else? Mr Wiegel said about the First and Second Chambers: swallowing or suffocating. Are you linking it? I'd like a clasp-and-ready answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u16	That would give access to the documents for Princess' Day and that would cause the greatest possible quarrels with the Socialist Party group, in particular one of its Members of Parliament who is always talking to me about this, and I do not want that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u17	Then there's my second question. Can the Prime Minister promise that the cabinet will implement the Hoekstra motion unanimously adopted by the First Chamber on the non-coupling of independent legislative proposals? It is of great significance in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u18	That question refers to the context of the previous question, and it also applies to that question: answering it in that context would bring me to a head-on collision with one of the leading members of the Socialist Party in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u19	Then I know what time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u20	No, no, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u21	It's 2:15 right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u22	RTL News has fortunately received information on the abolition of the dividend tax through a WOB procedure. Why does the Prime Minister despise citizens, the Chamber and journalists time and time again by not opening up the background to the abolition of the dividend tax? Why does he fake amnesia over and over again, forcing us to get the information back on the table through WOB procedures? Why isn't the Prime Minister ashamed of this state of affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mrs Thieme is confusing two things. The discussion in 2017 and early this year was about pieces in the framework of the formation. They were then also provided. Other official documents from that period of the formation were also provided. This is generally about official notes to directors over a much longer period. That's the usual administrative, political work in a department.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u24	The Prime Minister is completely detached from reality. People are furious that the dividend tax is being abolished. There's no argument. People want to know why it happens. We have had debates on this in the Chamber over and over again. We demand from the cabinet, from this Prime Minister in particular, that all information be put on the table so that we can form an opinion on this. Why does the Prime Minister think it is completely normal that we only get that through WOB procedures and through investigative journalism, instead of sending the information to the Chamber himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u25	No cabinet sends all correspondence between officials and directors to the Chamber. This was a WOB request. It then examines whether these documents should and can be provided within the framework of the WOB. The debate earlier this year was not about that. This was about documents in connection with the formation and the misunderstanding which arose, which was corrected by making all the documents in the formation public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u26	I'll see who I can talk to. I think Mr Azarkan was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u27	No, Mr. Clover was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u28	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u29	The last time a driver talked about the Jupiler League, it was about the rewards at ING. A little week later, they were off the table. I think the same thing is going to happen with the dividend tax. It is not abolished in the Netherlands. I think the Prime Minister knows that very well. He's on his own, all alone. Employers' organizations abandoned him. The same applies to banks, all experts, the House of Representatives and, more importantly, the Dutch population. What does the Prime Minister need to ensure that the dividend tax is not abolished? What does he need to make sure this isn't in the plans on Prince's Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u30	It would be different if we did not have to worry about the great risk that some of the largest companies in the Netherlands, given the current situation on the capital markets and financial markets, would go away if we retained the dividend tax and if the chances of companies coming to the Netherlands as a result of Brexit would be as great as we would. But the cabinet makes the assessment that we are taking an unacceptable risk with the structure of our economy. It is unique that in a country of our size the largest European company and the third company of the British Stock Exchange are located. If we estimate that if we don't do this, the chances are that these companies will leave the Netherlands, then you have to make this decision, even if it isn't popular. I say one more thing to Mr Klaver. I saw him at a nice meeting. I've also seen the run-up there with all the cafeteria tours he's had. He then talked to people who work hard in the Netherlands, who have very normal jobs, for which he and I have both entered the battlefield here in politics. If you really want to take care of those people, you will also have to provide employment. Then you have to make sure that these big companies are here, because if those companies aren't here, then we can't take care of those people. This means that jobs will disappear and the structure of our economy will be impoverished. That is why we are taking this measure. And one more thing. He wants to spend 2 billion in the public sector. This cabinet invests 6 billion in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u31	If you want to do something for all those people who work in our public sector, for our police officers and the people in the care, then you need to make sure they can do their job. There have been very hard cuts in recent years, and now that there is money left, it goes to these big companies. People don't understand that. And rightly so, because wrong choices are being made. This Prime Minister stands for Brexit, on the capital markets. He's acting like it happened all of a sudden last year. That's not true. A year before the election, a year before we had to write our election programs, the Brexit was a fact and the money was cheaper than cheap. The situation hasn't changed. The main point is that Mr Rutte has not written anything about dividend taxation in his election programme. Nothing. I do know one thing: I write down things that I think are important in my election programme, so that the voter can choose to do so and charge me if he or she does not approve of the plans. Mr Rutte did not do that. He's messing with something right now. That's about 2 billion euros. In doing so, he undermines confidence in democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u32	Once again, this cabinet does not invest 2 billion, as Mr Klaver wants, but 6 billion in the public sector, and rightly so. That's one. Secondly, last year we saw that large companies such as Akzo and Unilever threatened to be taken over. That would mean that these big companies would leave the Netherlands. There was an outcry here in the House of Representatives and everywhere to prevent that. It is the assessment of this coalition that we are thinking of a mix of measures, such as corporate tax, the fight against letterboxes, but also the abolition of dividend tax and a whole package for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is necessary to strengthen the structure of our economy, but also to protect it. If we were not to do that, if we were to say 'let's drop that measure', we would, I think, be taking too great a risk with an important part of our economy. This directly affects employment, for which Mr Klaver is quite right to say that we are fighting on the same side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u33	Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u34	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u35	This was known for the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u36	The acquisition of Unilever was in March 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u37	I am going to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u38	I hear the Prime Minister saying that he is assessing this as an unacceptable risk. The practice is that he actually has very little support for that. It's in his fibers. His party leader here in the Chamber, Mr Dijkhoff, just called it "a big gamble." He was a little more honest. What remains is that he was lobbied by Shell in 2010. This has assumed such consequences that he is willing to transfer 2 billion euros of Community money to these companies every year. I would like to know in writing from the Prime Minister when he has spoken with Shell, Unilever, VNO-NCW and other parties about this issue and what he gets in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u39	We're not gonna do that. Those are confidential conversations. I have just said that the issue of abolishing dividend taxation must be seen in the context of events over the last 18 months. I have just explained this, also towards Mr Klaver. Unilever's takeover took place early last year. That's one. Secondly, Mr Azarkan himself is taking a great risk, and that is what we disagree with the structure of our economy by saying that he is taking the risk of these large companies leaving. I'm not taking that chance. My assessment is that that risk is too high. That would impoverish our country. Once again, we don't play in the highest leagues anymore. Then the structure of our economy is impoverished. This has a direct effect on jobs, not only for the top people who work there, but also for very normal jobs for people with very normal salaries, for whom we are both fighting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u40	The Prime Minister also knows that there is only one country around us that has a lower dividend tax than we do, namely the UK with 0%. Germany is higher, just like France, Belgium, Switzerland. Somehow the Prime Minister wants us to believe it's a little bit on his Trumps..... that if this doesn't happen, we're gonna fall back like some kind of Third World country and it's all gonna be a tragedy here. There's no evidence to support that. In the meantime, there is no party that supports that this is a tragedy for the Dutch location climate. Nonsense. The Minister can't back this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u41	It is true that England does not have a dividend tax at the moment. On the contrary, it is also a number of very large companies based in the Netherlands which are partly British. There are also companies in Britain that can now consider coming to the Netherlands because of the Brexit. Then this plays an important role. It is not so much about the investment opportunities of companies that could come to us as it is about a protection measure for some of the largest Dutch companies. I believe that this debate should be held. That's what we do here. We will undoubtedly do so next week in the General Political Reviews. I look forward to that debate on the structure of our economy. I understand very well that abolishing a tax that is largely foreign is not positive and popular. I understand that very well. But I would also like to draw attention to the great risk that the opponents of the measure will take, namely the high risk that some of the largest Dutch companies will leave. I don't want to take that chance. That is why the cabinet is taking this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u42	The Prime Minister can take Mr Klaver's measure of who is best for employment here, but look at the schwung and the feeling with which he says that these companies know everyone that it is just about Unilever and Shell, but well, that by the way, should be preserved for the Netherlands and that this is good for employment. In the meantime, he goes against all the advice of every decent economist and a lot of others in the Netherlands. I would like to know from Mr Rutte where this schwung was for employment and jobs when, for example, Mr Rutte's policy made 77.000 people in care in the street, when the nursing homes had to close when home care was halved. So now we know that Mr. Rutte was already talking to Shell and Unilever about abolishing the dividend tax. Where was he then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u43	I was not speaking from a point of view that the dividend tax should be abolished. We were faced with the fact that a number of companies have long wished to abolish the dividend tax. Then it makes sense for me to be prepared when those companies come to visit. Then there is our employment situation. The Netherlands has experienced spectacular employment growth in recent years. We've never had so many jobs and there's never been so many people at work. That's because when things went badly, we were willing to take difficult measures together, with the support of the opposition parties and a coalition of the Labour Party and the VVD, who could count on a minimum majority in this Chamber and didn't have a majority in the Upper Chamber. Mrs Marijnissen would be at the gates of these companies if they left and would then scream murder and fire. And rightly so, because it would be very bad for our economy and our jobs if that were to happen. But I would also ask her to support a cabinet that is taking protective measures to maintain this kind of company for the Netherlands. You can't do one thing, screaming at the gate "you have to stay" if you're not willing to mitigate the risk by taking such measures, even if they're not popular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u44	This is not about a popular or unpopular measure. This is about the credibility of the cabinet. This is about the belief that people can have in democracy. I think it's very serious what's happening here. Mr Rutte says: in bad times we have all had to make sacrifices and have had to make sacrifices. Yes, those 77,000 people who worked in care had to make a sacrifice; they were fired. But what else has become known in the dividend debacle? Shell didn't. For the past ten years, Shell has been able to avoid tax for almost EUR 8 billion. So if only, I'd like to tell the Prime Minister that we all had to turn in in bad times. Then Shell probably wouldn't have gotten away with the sneaky tax deals they did get under Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u45	This is downright populist language and not based on the facts. This has been a whole debate. It has also shown that Mrs Marijnissen is wrong here. Now back to the big issue of employment. If the previous cabinet had not been prepared to intervene in a deep crisis in the Dutch economy, we would not be one of the best performing economies in the world. In absolute euros, we are currently the third largest exporter in the world, after Germany and Japan and before China. We have an unemployment rate which is now heading back towards the level of 2001. So it's very low. We have a record of investment at the moment. We have a record number of people at work and a record number of jobs. On all states, if you add up and share everything, the Netherlands is the second best performing country in the world, behind Switzerland, and we even catch up with Switzerland. So let's not give the impression here that we're on our way to the edge of the abyss. We live in a beautiful and strong country. However, we must also be prepared to take unpopular measures to protect the structure of our economy, including some of the largest European companies, with all the spin-off of those companies in the field of research, jobs and small and medium-sized enterprises associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
