ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the commemoration of the death of former Prime Minister R.F.M. Lubbers. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, like all the people in the public gallery. I'd like to ask you all to stand up, if possible. Today we commemorate a great statesman, Ruud Lubbers. For 21 years he was here in the room child at home. Ruud Lubbers had deep-seated ideals, but never stared blindly at his own. He was looking for harmony, for what's good for society as a whole. In addition, justice was the key word. As a religious and at the same time searching Catholic, he felt a great responsibility to do justice. When he was young, he became Minister of Economic Affairs. Almost a year after his arrival he spoke during a Sunday mass in the parish church in Berg en Dal. It was March 1974, in the middle of the oil crisis. The churchgoers heard that same contemplative way of speaking that would later get to know the whole of the Netherlands. He said: "We soon think of power when we bear responsibility. To the ability to take care of important matters, to enforce something. But having the core of responsibility is: to serve and to give life. To focus on the other: to stand up for the other." He took the preparation of such a sermon very seriously. Afterwards he was tired and sighed at a journalist of De Gelderlander: "You better have the Chamber opposite you." Ruud Lubbers enjoyed the political and social debate. The images from the Houtrusthallen, where angry protesters against the placement of cruise missiles made it almost impossible for him to speak, remain on our retina. And I myself have warm memories of his presence at the first major demonstration against racism in 1992. Together with Frits Bolkestein and Ien Dales we walked along with that demonstration. When asked a few years later what drove him at these moments, he needed few words, which, of course, was exceptional to him: "Unit in my country and unity in my party." He had to work hard on the unit in his party in the Chamber. As party leader in a new merger party, he had to work with all the blood groups of the young CDA, so that the first van Agt cabinet could continue to rule. With that, he gained great respect. He often explained compromises in a language that sometimes led colleagues and journalists to despair. Lubbers was sometimes a human fog bank in their eyes. Max van Weezel said last week in De Vommen van Vullings and Van Weezel that some journalists solved that by writing down only the sentences that Lubbers had uttered behind the comma. Then there was a readable interview with him in the paper. He also quoted an anecdote from the time he interviewed Ruud Lubbers. After the interview, he was called by his advisor, with the message that the Prime Minister had 80 changes that he would like to make in the text of the interview. "That goes too far," said Max van Weezel. On which the lecturer said: "That's what the Prime Minister thought. That's why he also has a folder with 30 changes." Ruud Lubbers thus became "the man who bridges contradictions with a bridge that doesn't exist, but where everyone walks over it," said an anonymous CDA member in 1980. As Prime Minister, he used this talent to the full to get the Netherlands moving again. Hard measures were needed in his view to remain social. But he also kept looking for the reasonable center to keep the unity. Ruud Lubbers refused to believe that people couldn't get out together. In doing so, he showed great respect for the role of the House of Representatives. According to him, MPs had a better antenna for sounds in society than the Prime Minister. And although he had to have serious debates, he refused to criticize the Chamber as an institution. "Then a lock goes on my mouth," he said. "There's no comment here." After his farewell to active politics, Lubbers returned to this house as an informant twice more. In the summer of 2010, he was there for the last time, in box-K. He was 71 years old. He enjoyed the debate. Sometimes he spoke sharply, then woolly again. "He was a bit crooked, his hands shivered, but it was still the same Lubbers," said Wouke van Scherrenburg in the Algemeen Dagblad in 2010. In those years, the Netherlands also got to know the idealist in Ruud Lubbers better. He saw intolerance and selfishness as the greatest dangers of our time. He continued passionately pleading for a caring society, for a sustainable future and a warm welcome for refugees. And for the role of young people. It was now up to them to find each other in a great project of hope. And he liked to quote Saint Augustine: "The times, that's us." With the death of Ruud Lubbers, his era is over. A time when an entire generation grew up under his political leadership. A time when he inspired young and old with his moral authority. A time when he always fought for the unity of his country. The unity of our country. We commemorate him with great respect and great gratitude for the way he served our democracy. And our thoughts are with his wife, children and grandchildren. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-10.u2	Madam President. "You have to try to make the best of it together." In all its simplicity this was the deeply rooted conviction with which Ruud Lubbers gave his political life direction. It is the basis of a long and rich political career and also of a meaningful life. Rudolphus Franciscus Marie Lubbers was one of the few given to leave a mark on a country and on a decade as an individual. He made his entrance into Dutch politics as a very young Minister of Economic Affairs with a great sense of proof. Despite his age, he did not avoid confrontations and talked directly into every field. So he's a born Secretary of General Affairs. As the youngest Prime Minister ever, he walked into the Tower in 1982 to get out as the longest Prime Minister in 1994. In all these years, the office, and the power and the status that goes with it, never came along with him. He wasn't there for himself, he was there to solve the problems and help society. He didn't go for the popularity prize. He did not hesitate to make far-reaching cuts during the economic crisis of the 1980s. It provoked Margaret Thatcher to say that her image of Iron Lady was compromised. Nevertheless, he always kept an eye on the consequences of his policies and on the people behind the measures. Not only did he consider it important to take decisions, but he also considered it his responsibility as Prime Minister to explain those decisions as well as possible. It explains why he faced the opposition with open sight. He saw talking to other people as the core task of the office. Whether they were MPs or thousands of angry protesters, Madam President, you already mentioned it in the Houtrusthallen. In it he was brave but also lonely. About that iconic moment in the Houtrusthallen he later said: "When I spoke there, I was quite interiorized. No matter how many people there were and what they all said and did, there was only the feeling in me: I am now engaged in a mission; how do I keep Dutch society together, no matter how torn up?" Ruud Lubbers wanted to get the people involved in his story. Whether he always succeeded is the question. A journalist told me how he was inspired and lusted during interviews with Lubbers and indeed you mentioned a few fine examples of a passionate writing. Then, when he wanted to work out the story, he couldn't turn the written words into proper and understandable sentences. Language was a means for Lubbers to shape his thoughts but also to create space. Ruud Lubbers was a modest man, war of pooha and obsession. I'd rather have a cheese sandwich than a three-course menu. Strongly driven on content, efficient, tireless. Working was never a burden for him. You couldn't make him happier than with a pile of complicated files, which he went over behind his desk to thoroughly analyze them and provide many directions for resolution. His creativity and eagerness were inspiring for his environment. This desire for work has yielded a lot, and that is another understatement. He helped the Netherlands out of the crisis in the 1980s. He stood with the initiators of the Wassenaar Accord at the cradle of the polder model. He was one of the founding fathers of the European Union. "No-nonsense" is a concept that will remain attached to him, but in interviews he sometimes hinted that that mentality was an armor. Among them was a sensitive philosopher with profound thoughts about man and society, about life and death, about faith and about responsibility. The core of Christian democracy was for him: people who are on their way together to a better, less broken world. That vision also clearly came back to life after his premiership, when he worked for refugees and for a sustainable world. In 2005, he was able to conquer the hearts of the young generation, of those who had not consciously experienced him as Prime Minister, when he made an almost spiritual argument about sustainability at the Lowlands festival. He was and remained a Rotterdammer all his life. Impressive were the hundreds of emotional people who came to pay tribute to him this week in his city in the Laurentius and Elisabeth Cathedral. Madam President. Ruud Lubbers once said: "We have responsibility for the generations to come and we must be grateful for what has been given to us." We're grateful to Ruud Lubbers. Grateful for what he's given us. His legacy is permanent. Today we commemorate him with the deepest respect. His wife, children, grandchildren, his family and friends I wish strength in dealing with this great loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you. I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
