ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr A.R. Vermeer. I do not need to ask Members to stand, because that has already happened. Thank you. On 26 July last, Anne Vermeer, former senator of the Labour Party, died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 20 September 1966 to 23 June 1987. Anne Rinse Vermeer was born on 12 December 1916 in Tiel. After primary school he first went to the mulo and in 1932 he switched to the hbs in his birthplace. After his final exam in 1935, Mr Vermeer started the study Economics, a political-economic direction, at the Dutch Economic Hogeschool in Rotterdam. He graduated in 1940. Back in Gelderland he became a teacher of state sciences at the Thorbeckelyceum and at the Secondary Technical School in Arnhem. He was also a lecturer in state sciences at the Rijkskulkschool in Amsterdam. After the war he immediately became politically active in the SDAP in Arnhem. He later said: "We did that, because we had to go on: uniting ourselves in a social democratic party, because we wanted peace, never war again." In his hometown, Mr Vermeer was the last section president of the SDAP, but also the first of the PvdA, the Labour Party, to replace it. His career as a People's Representative began on 6 July 1954 when he became a member of the Provinceal States of Gelderland for the Labour Party. He would remain a member of the State until 1976. A part of that period, i.e. from 1956 to 1963, Anne Vermeer was also a member of the Lower House for his party, together with his brother Evert. Evert was known as a fierce spokesperson, considering Anne as more. In 1962, Anne Vermeer became a deputy in Gelderland. He was in charge of general administration and economic affairs, including energy policy. On 20 September 1966, Mr Vermeer was sworn in as a member of the Upper House. In 1976 he replaced the province of Gelderland for the municipality of Amersfoort. On 1 January of that year he was appointed mayor of Amersfoort for a period of six years. Finally, he remained a member of the First Chamber until 23 June 1987, of which the last twelve years as chairman of the Labour Party. At his departure he was, with seven years in the Second and almost 21 years in the First Chamber, the longest parliamentarians in the Netherlands. In this Chamber, Mr Vermeer was concerned, among other things, with economic issues and culture. For example, he was Deputy Chairman of the Permanent Committee for Culture and Recreation for several years. During a debate in 1984 on the transport conditions for public transport, Minister Smit-Kroes van Verkeer en Waterstaat, referring to her red clothing, drew the fine for the fact that the introduction of a new practice had preceded the adoption of the bill. Vermeer interrupted her with the words: "I thought freedom was coloured in red, not the fine!" He also referred to his political colour in debates in other ways. During the 1978 General Political Reviews he called himself "simple economist, even simpler than the simple economist from Buitenveldert," referring to the then PvdA leader Joop den Uyl. As chairman of the political group, he was a spokesperson in the discussion of the revision of the Constitution in 1983. In both the first reading proposals in 1980 and second reading, two years later, Mr Vermeer regretted that there had been no greater reform of the political system, including as regards the position of the First Chamber. When he retired in 1987, then President of the Chamber, Steenkamp recalled Mr Vermeer's "unwaverable integrity." He called him "sober, yes, distant, but also involved." Steenkamp quoted Abraham Lincoln to describe Vermeer's way of politics: "Every man must accept that there is a gap between what he would like and what is possible." According to Steenkamp, Vermeer gave up that mentality without ever giving up his starting point. In addition to his political and administrative career, Mr Vermeer was active as a teacher at the Arbeidersvraadschool, chairman of the curatorium of the scientific bureau of the Dutch Confederation of Trade Unions, chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs of the Association of Dutch Municipalities and chairman of the Gelderse Monumentenraad. After his retirement he remained politically active. In Arnhem, for example, he invented "Politics during the day" intended for members of the Labour Party who were no longer able to attend the party's evening meetings. And until his 90th year, Mr Vermeer was still giving lectures on social democracy in the nursing home where he lived. He always taught the lectures himself. In 1971 Mr Vermeer was appointed Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion and in 1982 Commander of the Order of Orange-Nassau. From the municipality of Arnhem he received the Stadspenning and from the province of Gelderland the Eredaille. In his long social and political life, Mr Vermeer set himself the goal of "trying to improve society from a sense of justice with great difficulty and patience." May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you.
