ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the medicine Orkambi for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. I welcome the Minister of Medical Care, the members of the Chamber and any viewers at home. Five speakers have signed up. Everyone has three minutes' speaking time. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying that we welcome the conditional approval of the spectacular medicine Orkambi. But patients with cystic fibrosis have been waiting for this for two years and their health has deteriorated unnecessarily for two years. They were the victims of chop-chop. Who can they contact for the stories of the damage they caused? At the former minister's office? At the manufacturer's? At the Healthcare Institute? I find that irresponsible. The Hague must solve the problem caused by the system with the so-called 'lock'. If a life-saving drug is found against a common form of cancer, can the minister make it necessary to keep the patients waiting for two years, with all the consequences? I don't think so. We therefore propose that medicines should not only be placed in the lock once they have been authorised, but that they should also be reimbursed immediately. The period after, until the final influx into the basic package, can be used to negotiate finances properly. Additional advantage is that we can really judge whether a drug works. This can prevent discussions rather than making all sorts of strange assumptions from behind offices and also from rising tensions in political debates. The Minister wrote in the letter he sent to the Chamber last Monday that he was aiming for maximum transparency. We therefore propose that the Minister should take action and make the negotiations on Orkambi public. We also question the calculation of cost-effectiveness by the Healthcare Institute. Were all the benefits really taken into account, such as partial return to work, fewer hospitalisations and the fact that expensive medicines are once again patented within a number of years? We propose to publish the calculation of cost-effectiveness by the Healthcare Institute. Finally. As part of the popular topic "fake news," I was deliberately damaged by newspaper the NRC in the article "The hard lobby for an extremely expensive medicine." In a large article, paragraphs are traded for a long time about MPs who are bombarded with e-mails by a lobbyist, who are addressed after a debate and are provided with incorrect information. Paragraphs 13, 14 and 15 also refer to two Members of Parliament, namely my colleague Mr Gerbrands and I. Now everyone can always approach us with any information, but I have not spoken to Mr Zuidhof before the start of the television programme PAUW. He didn't lobby me, and he didn't provide me with any wrong information. I have informed the author of the article in the NRC of this aloud before publishing the article, but it should not benefit. I had expected a question about the manufacturer in the television programme PAUW, so I went into it during the preparation of the programme. In short, I had a reliable source of press agency Bloomberg. And they had posted a nice table about the manufacturer on the internet. And you know what? What I said on the air, that's right. The manufacturer made one year's profit in the 25 years prior to Orkambi's admission as a result of one successful quarter. That they've been making a profit since Orkambi's admission, yes, it's to be expected. This fact can neither the NRC nor the MPs who allowed themselves to perform anonymously and formed the source for the article change. Those MPs, who deliberately damage me, are of a questionable nature. After 11 years of parliamentary membership, I can still say that I have never done anything like this and will never do it. And if I kill you verbally, I will do so with words, here, in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will also speak on behalf of the PvdA Group. Mr. Chairman. We are debating the medicine Orkambi. The good news is that this medicine is now available and accessible to patients with cystic fibrosis. We would very much like to give that good news to patients with another disease, who are also eager to receive a medicine that they cannot yet receive. Mr. Chairman. Also making Orkambi available was an unpleasant game over the backs of patients. I do not like the way in which Vertex is working, starting with the misleading lobby, letters to Members of Parliament, to increase the pressure to make excessive profits. Unfortunately, this is also the way things are going with many other powerful Big Pharma. They keep patients and governments in an iron grip, which we have not yet come out of; at least not if we do not shy away from unorthodox drugs in the future. Mr. Chairman. That is why, together with colleagues from the Labour Party and the SP, I have prepared an initiative paper with serious proposals to break the power of Big Pharma and achieve affordable new medicines. I hope the Minister will be prepared to deal with this note in the near future. When does he expect an initial response from his side to this? As far as my group is concerned, we are in a hurry. Making medicines accessible has a direct impact on people's lives. The obstacles that are now being created must be removed. A few months ago it was Orkambi, then, now, Spinraza and who knows what the next difficult negotiation will be. Unfortunately, we don't have to wait too long for that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, in a response from the Minister, we heard that he is aiming for maximum transparency in the pharmaceutical industry. I wholeheartedly endorse that. But then he indicated that the industry had to pick up the glove itself. I think that's a slightly naive thought. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees this concretely. Can he elaborate on that? Can he also explain whether deadlines and sanctions will enter into force if this transparency is not met? What about, for example, the investigation into the use of compulsory licences? Will he also discuss this option with the European Industry Organisation and in a forthcoming round table of ministers and the CEOs of pharmaceutical companies? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It is time that we really went through with measures against the pharmaceutical industry. I hope that the Chamber and the Minister will agree with GroenLinks and that we will see results in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u6	Mr. Chairman. Tough mucous disease is a terrible disease, which greatly reduces the quality of life. It is therefore very good news that the reimbursement of Orkambi finally worked out well, so that at least there is a prospect of some relief from the symptoms of the patients. These have been in uncertainty for a long time in recent years as a result of the lengthy price negotiations. Unfortunately, that was necessary in this case, because the manufacturer asked for a socially totally irresponsible price. If the initial asking price were paid, it would mean that every Dutch person would have to pay €7 to €9 more premium for this medicine alone for several hundred patients. If you then consider that in the coming years many dozens of these expensive medicines are still on the market, it is clear that the Minister cannot just accept any price. The publication of the Dutch Healthcare Authority showed that the increase in the costs of the medicines had increased by 16%, while the general costs of specialist care were 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u7	I'm terrified by this cold, cold sum of the CDA. I can't understand it either, because to this day, we don't know what Orkambi costs. We don't know what the development costs are. The Minister didn't know either. So I ask the CDA: what if for such a amount per patient, for example, breast cancer can be solved? Does the CDA make such a cold sum here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u8	The CDA has repeated several times: we want care to be affordable, available and accessible, for everyone and for as many people as possible. If we want to maintain this affordability and therefore a piece of solidarity, in which everyone will be willing to continue to pay, then we will have to have the courage to have this conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u9	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u10	I'm totally shocked. Look, these kinds of conversations belong in the treatment room, between specialist and patient. So the CDA thinks there's a price tag on our lives and I'm totally shocked by that. Whether it's cystic fibrosis patients, people with breast cancer or any serious, deadly disease, the CDA comes up with a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u11	Again, if you ask me if I want to pay €9 more to help these patients, I say, like everyone else in this country: yes, I do. But we will have to have the courage to enter into discussions with each other in order to keep the whole care as such affordable. We may sometimes have to make difficult choices in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u12	A second interruption for you, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is the CDA aware of the fact that billions of windfalls have been reported to the VWS ministry since 2013? In curative care, this amounts to EUR 7.2 billion. And then there wouldn't be 49 million euros to give these patients a medicine and to give other patients with deadly diseases a medicine? These cold, cold amounts of "€9 more for the care premium" are total nonsense. There's plenty of money. The money's bouncing at the VWS Department against the plinths.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u14	And your specific question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u15	How can the CDA insist that this kind of sum is made over the back of deadly people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u16	In other debates, we have already found that there is indeed under-utilisation on several dossiers, even of the budgets. On the other hand, we know together that healthcare costs are rising more than our economic growth. We will have to have the courage to discuss these difficult issues with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u17	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u18	Blowing. Facts. The last fiscal treatment confirmed by the Minister of the United States of America that care costs have increased by 0.8% of GDP over the last five years, while economic growth was 1.7% of GDP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u19	In the budget debate, you indicated the same thing. If you look back, the numbers are different than they are now. We must do it now with the figures we have now received for the years to come. Let me say first of all what we want as a CDA, namely that people can work in care for all those who need it. We would like to make other choices to keep it all in the air, but we may also have to talk to each other about what is being paid for medicines in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u20	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u21	I would like to comment on what Mrs Agema just said about development costs. We believe that the manufacturer should be given a reasonable remuneration, but that should be much better substantiated. We are not at all charmed by what has happened with regard to communication by the lobbyists; quite scandalous! We were wondering whether the Minister was also looking at the financial side of the companies in the price negotiations. Does the Minister do the kind of research the NRC does when he's engaged in the price negotiations? In a previous debate, we indicated that it would be good to start with the question of what public funds have been invested in development for the sake of transparency. What is the status of monitoring and availability of figures? Then there are a few questions about the deal with Vertex itself. The minister's predecessor indicated that her bid for Vertex would mean that the company would have guaranteed income for several years. Has Vertex's appointment with Orkambi been committed for several years? Has the Minister also indicated that there might be new medicines in the coming years that could be more effective than Orkambi? What's that gonna mean for the Orkambi contract? Can that be disbanded? We also wonder how the medicine will be monitored in the coming years, i.e. its effectiveness, its price development and its effects on the patient's health. At what times, and on what conditions, can the Minister take other decisions on this, all the more so because there could be new means that would be more effective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u22	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I too am pleased that the efforts of the previous minister have agreed on the availability of Orkambi at an acceptable price. I would almost like to say 'obviously acceptable price', because it remains unclear what that acceptable price actually is. How much was the Ministry willing to pay and what production costs are the opposite? How much has Vertex himself invested in the development of the medicine and how much public money is in it? The advice of the Healthcare Institute was: the medicine is too expensive for the effect it has. Mr. Chairman. Especially when we are talking about a great public interest as affordable medicines partly financed by society and medicines developed at our universities, it must be clear how much we pay for them, how much society pays, how much the industry pays and how the taxpayer's subsidy leads to a lower price for the medicine. Last Monday we received a letter on how the Minister intends to promote transparency. He writes that he will talk to industry organisations and CEOs of pharmaceutical companies at national and European level. But my question is: does the Minister expect companies to voluntarily give access to their price model? The debacle with Vertex doesn't really offer confidence for this. I also understand that even companies do not always provide the information that the Healthcare Institute needs to make a thorough assessment of the cost-effectiveness of the product. I do see a solution in forcing this information to be made public together with our European partners. If Europe acts as a single market, then we can achieve more than the Netherlands alone. Mr. Chairman. A first step towards transparency can be taken by making the transfer of patents from universities to companies conditional on availability, transparency, development costs and, of course, on reasonable profit margins. The Minister has promised D66 to develop a pilot for this purpose. I am curious to see how the discussions are going and when we can expect a plan of this pilot. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u24	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD. She's the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone who is sick or who has a loved one who is sick naturally wants to take advantage of everything so that the sick person has a chance to get better. That is perfectly right and understandable. In the discussion about Orkambi, a medicine for some people with cystic fibrosis or cystic fibrosis, emotions were logically high. Everyone wanted and wants a solution for these patients. Last year a bizarre process took place around the reimbursement of this medicine. The call to reimburse the medicine regardless of the price received a great deal of support, not least because there was no hesitation in using young patients to increase the pressure. The VVD doesn't think that's acceptable. After first communicating that the negotiations had collapsed at the beginning of October, the Vertex manufacturer panicked. Vertex said that he would agree with that price and accused Minister Schippers of wrongly informing the Chamber and making a political point about patients' backs. Vertex later stated that he did not agree to the Minister's offer because there were additional requirements that were not met. Luckily, at the end of October, agreement was finally reached. Of course, that was fantastic news for the patients, but of course such a process should not happen like this. Medicines have been developed for many years by companies and not by governments. This has also led to successes. There are diseases that can be cured now, one can live longer and the quality of life is often better. Developing medicines is also a costly and risky activity. But that does not mean, as far as we are concerned, that we simply pay for everything that a manufacturer asks for. We do not allow ourselves, like some parties, to be held hostage by a cold pharmaceutical that leaves patients in the cold. Although we understand that a pharmaceutical company can make a decent return, the way in which this manufacturer wanted to enrich himself over the back of the patients is downright rude. Everything points out that Vertex was not the interests of patients but the interests of shareholders and the CEO. Last week we also saw that sometimes it is easy to shout in the media when it comes to solutions, for example when it comes to the majestic preparation of this product. In practice, it turns out to be much more reluctant to make a safe and good medicine. It's a bad thing to give patients false hope in that way. The VVD wants cost-effective medicines, even if they are expensive and only for a small patient group, to continue to be available in the basic package. This is why the VVD wants to focus on greater transparency about development costs. As far as we are concerned, we must do so internationally. We need to work with other countries, for example when it comes to negotiation or procurement. We must also negotiate and make agreements with the sector itself, for example when it comes to compassionate use programmes. The VVD also wants shorter procedures for the availability and reimbursement of medicines, so that the funds become available more quickly. A VVD motion has been adopted on this issue in the VWS budget. We are therefore looking forward to the Minister's reply. The VVD is not in favour of new measures that can be counterproductive in speeding up the availability of medicines on the Dutch market. We don't want any measures to make the patient's position worse. How can the Netherlands maintain its good position in this respect? How can we ensure that resources are made available quickly here without paying the top prize? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u26	Thank you. I see there's been an interruption by Mrs. Agema. It's a 30-member debate. You've had two interruptions, but I'm giving you a chance to ask one question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u27	The VVD also wants to prevent a trial like last year. That's profit. The VVD also wants funds to become available earlier. In my term, I proposed that funds should be reimbursed during the closing period and that the price should be negotiated thereafter. I'd like to know what the VVD thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u28	In the past it has also become clear that the PVV apparently wants to pay any price that the pharmaceutical companies ask for. We don't want that. We want to see how we can speed up the process towards them on the market so that they become available more quickly. If steps can be taken that allow us to determine more quickly how compensation can be settled in the package, then we are always in favour of it. We have also asked the Minister to make a proposal for this and to take a number of measures in it. We hope that this will also produce good results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u29	Mrs. Agema, I've given you a chance to ask one question. It is a 30-member debate, so perhaps you can keep your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u30	I'm getting the scurvy that I'm willing to pay any price for a cure, but that's bullshit, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u31	Is this a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u32	Yes. We don't know what Orkambi costs, and neither does the VVD. We do not therefore know what price is ridiculous or acceptable. We do know that we have a better price now, but that the patients paid the price for it, because their situation deteriorated for two years. I asked if the VVD would like to improve that situation and then she said yes, but if I make a concrete proposal, she said no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u33	That's not a point of order, but I'll see if the VVD will comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u34	I have indicated a number of things which, in my view, allow us to make improvements to that process. We are not always prepared to pay the top prize. If it had been up to the PVV, a much higher price had already been paid in this process. I think that in the longer term, we would have been worse off with all the other means that come on the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u35	I must say that Mrs De Vries is now challenging Mrs Agema again. I will give Mrs Agema the opportunity to respond once and then we will stop, because many questions have been asked and I would also like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u36	I think that if Mrs De Vries decides to attack, she should come up with facts. Then she has to say: you said that in that debate, and you said that in that debate. The only thing I said earlier about that price is that there was a deal in Germany for €135.000. That's the only thing I've ever said about money and nothing but that. That was a much better price than we had. It was my proposal to compensate for that and then to negotiate the price, because if you give people their means, we can also see if it is effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u37	We're gonna stop this now. Sorry, but we don't go over and over every time... we have a five-minute suspension. So maybe you could...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u38	One has the other's double space, apparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u39	That is not the case. The Minister has requested that the meeting be suspended for up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u40	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u41	Thank you, Mr President. When preparing for the debate, I found it rather difficult to see what the questions would be for tonight. On the one hand, that was because the agreements made with the supplier of the drug Orkambi were made by my predecessor in office. On the other hand, the agreement was also made with that supplier to treat those agreements confidentially. That wrings. One wrings because I don't have the experience, the other because it's confidential information I can't share. Frankly, I agree with the fact that we are talking here about greater transparency, not just about the desire to do so, but also about the need to be more transparent. I would also like to comment on that in a moment. First of all, let us note that it is nice that a number of patients have been treated with the Orkambi medicine since November last year. On the other hand, let us also note that the value of a life for all of us is infinite not only in this room, but throughout the Netherlands, when we know that the budget is not infinite. There's tension between that and that tension we're gonna have to solve. So life is worth infinitely much to us, but the budget is not infinite. Transparency is important, because it is about a lot of money and it is also about a lot of public money. Thirdly, we are not only talking about the patients of today who we know; we know what disease there is and what medications are needed, but we also have the patient of tomorrow, and we do not yet know what medicines are necessary for his or her treatment. That also makes it complex. The background to all this is that we spend between 6 and 7 billion in medicines and medicines in the Netherlands. If we get a lot more expensive medicines, our budget will eventually be exhausted, no matter how rich we are and wherever we get the money from. So much for my introductory remarks. A number of questions have been asked and I would like to try to answer them. First of all, the point Mrs Agema made in two years' time. Two years of making such a deal with Orkambi is an awfully long time. I believe that we have already shared in general discussions on pharmaceutical policy that these two years are an exception. It's also a bit of a question where you put the beginning of those two years. Our Dutch Healthcare Institute can only get started if there is a complete set of information. And that took quite a long time in this case. There's been more research and before that set was complete, I think we've gone with it for over a year. So waiting two years can certainly not be the measure of things. In the AO I said: if the Healthcare Institute takes a month or three and we have a month or three or four before the package negotiations, that is about the limits you have to follow. I think that's reasonable, too. On the one hand, the Healthcare Institute must, of course, be able to determine the effectiveness of a medicine and, on the other hand, there must be room for negotiation, but not just to allow it to last.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u42	That calls for an interruption by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u43	The Minister explains very well here where the problem lies. So that problem is in our system. The Health Institute needs to collect information, we have requests, we need to do research, there is a cost-effectiveness calculation and negotiations are under way. All that takes a lot of time. I think those two years, which have been very long in this process, are going to be exemplary for much more resources. And that while Orkambi was admitted in November 2015. My question to the Minister is why we do not reimburse new medicines from admission and then start negotiating and looking at cost-effectiveness, all the more so because you can do well if the population gets the cure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u44	I am not in favour of that. First of all, whether the two years are exemplary. I have just argued that this is not the case. In general, the Healthcare Institute can apply with a period of one month or three. We now have a thick twenty examples. In general, negotiations can be concluded in three to four months. That's something different than two years. So I wouldn't like to mention exemplary those two years. I wouldn't think that for too long. In any case, Mrs Agema and I agree on that. It shouldn't take two years if you're a patient. I know Mrs. Agema speaks several patients. I, too, speak several patients. Of course there's a clock there. They don't want to wait two years. I recognize that point. That is why I call other shorter deadlines. Then the point "allow first, then negotiate." That's not what I'm here for. That is what I argued in last year's debate. I fear with great fear that there will no longer be any incentive for the manufacturer to make a discount. If we pay what the list price is, the price that the manufacturer himself gives up, and we start to compensate, the chance that he will then give a discount has become very small. I prefer that, at the moment when the drug is not yet in the package and it is such a sluice-gate, I contact the manufacturer on his responsibility. This could well happen a few more times in the coming period. I have no concrete example in mind, but with everything inside me, I am willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u45	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u46	Before the launch of the lock, we did not have these problems at all. The resources that were admitted automatically entered into the basic package. Now there's a lock. The minister says he finds two years too long, but he himself exposes the vulnerability of the system. We have a Healthcare Institute, which needs to gather information and make a cost analysis. That's what's going on for months. Then we'll have the price negotiations. That's what's going on for months. You've been stroking again and again. The room's getting restless. Patients are getting restless.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u47	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u48	Then I just don't understand why the Minister stays with his story and says: I want the term to be shorter, but I keep the system as it is. Because, in my view, these are two conflicting issues. So my question to the Minister is: if he does not promise me immediately that funds will be reimbursed as soon as they are admitted to the lock, will he at least examine the benefits of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u49	No. I am not here to defend a system if it is not a good system, but I am concerned about the importance of determining the clinical effectiveness of a drug. That's the advice the Healthcare Institute is giving us. That's what we really need before a drug like that can get into a package. Imagine if you didn't find that clinical effectiveness, so you didn't find that there is an effect of a drug on the existing drug and that you just let it happen. That would give false hope in some cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u50	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u51	So I'm really sticking to the M.O. with a lock like that. Medicines are getting more expensive. There is absolutely no need for further clarification. So we need to work on the system. Because what has not yet been mentioned, but is very important, is the issue of innovation. We are talking about the point that the pharmaceutical industry sometimes demands too high prices, but we also need the innovative side of the pharmaceutical industry very badly; let me add that. Mrs Agema has asked another question about the calculation and cost-effectiveness of new medicines. She asked if they couldn't be made public. The advice of the Healthcare Institute shall be public. These opinions also contain whole sections on cost-effectiveness. In the context of transparency, of course, this is still too little, but it is an element I would like to point out, because we are not completely at zero. In Mrs Agema's speech, a further passage was devoted to an article in the NRC. There were no questions for me, but I heard what Mrs Agema said. Mrs Ellemeet asked about the own-initiative paper which her party made with a number of other parties. I seem to recall that I have undertaken to respond in the first quarter of this year, trying to take together the opinion of the Health Council and the own-initiative paper. Mrs Ellemeet's other question, which was actually put by you all, concerns transparency. I did indeed write a letter at Mrs Kooiman's request, which was delivered to you on Monday, to see if more transparency would be possible, and to see whether the development costs of pharmaceuticals could be better reflected. I'm gonna work on that. That is what I am doing with Nefarma, who is given a new name, and with the international industrial table, which I would like to call for. I don't think that's gonna be general or empty words. I believe that this social responsibility can be better felt by pharmaceutical companies. I think that the Dutch government is doing so, but I am sure that this also applies in other countries. I wrote that in the letter, but of course that's not all. I just mentioned the passages of the Healthcare Institute on cost-effectiveness. That also gives some insight, but there are still a few provisions I would like to mention because they are pieces of transparency that can be achieved. One of them is what my predecessor, Mrs Schippers, did when Orkambi failed to make the final bid public. That is also a bit of transparency. In that case, my predecessor indicated a bandwidth. In addition, there is a list price for the medicine and the number of patients is also known. So we still do not know the content of the deal, because it is confidential because the manufacturer has demanded it as a condition for successful negotiations, but we do know bits. Those pieces are also mentioned here. One of them, so making the final bid public, is something that is sometimes difficult to digest for pharmaceutical products. But it is the last time, not only at Orkambi, accepted as a condition for negotiation. So I see opportunities to continue. I also told you that there are list prices. That is also a point of transparency. You know those list prices. They are in the Netherlands, but they are also in other countries. You can also see that the prices of medicines are moving towards each other in all countries by making those list prices public. And we've made good use of this since then.We make an annual overview for you which includes the sum of all the discounts that have been made in the year preceding that. That is the difference between the list price and the actual price, the price paid. So we don't know it at the drug level, but we do know macro. I believe that there is also an element of transparency in this. Finally, there are, of course, incredibly many medicines now and in the future. They're expensive, and fortunately, they're less expensive. But we're doing a horizon scan. That's also a public document. So we are indicating what we expect to be coming up with expensive medicines in the near future. These are all aspects, I think, which are part of the transparency of medicines prices. I'm going to give you that information in the near future. Mrs Van den Berg has also asked a number of questions about the long term of the negotiations and the widely experienced desire to shorten that period of negotiations. I agree with that, and I want to do the same. I cannot say anything about the content of the Vertex deal, but I can say that it is a multi-annual agreement. I am now paraphrasing Mrs van den Berg, and I hope that I am doing well. Imagine there's going to be a 2.0 drug that's better than Vertex and that's allowed. Then there's this new drug, and then the deal with Vertex expires. That's kind of important to know. So if the new medicine is allowed, then that's the medicine that's being prescribed. So that's not Vertex anymore. There is, of course, the question of whether there is also monitoring. Yes, the patients who are now using the medicine Vertex are, I understand, treated in or out of two centers. The progress, patient-level monitoring is done there. As far as I have not been clear about this, I think it would be very good to ask these centres to provide an insight into how these patients are doing. So I would be happy to ask both centres to do so. This must of course be done in a way that fits within the rules of privacy. But with a view to providing insight that is what we are asking for here, I think that is the central question that I am prepared to take up tonight and ask for it at those centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u52	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u53	I have two brief questions. Firstly, we have also asked whether the negotiations will include a financial investigation into the company itself to see what is going on with its entire profit and loss account and what effect it will have on the negotiations. Secondly, it is good to hear that monitoring is taking place. Does this also mean that there is a formal evaluation point after three or five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u54	I don't know. I want to stay away from that, too, because that could be an agreement from the deal, and I don't know that deal. But if Mrs Van den Berg would like to know how that has been monitored, I think that if I start on the side of those centres, I can get that insight. I feel very free to ask both centres when there is anything to report on results. I don't have to wait two years for that. I hope I don't make very big mistakes, but I don't see anyone running very red, so I dare ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u55	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u56	Mrs Van den Berg also asked: how about that? Is the profit and loss account also being considered in the negotiations? Yes, it looks at the creditworthiness, the financial stability of a company. Mrs Dijkstra asked about the familiar road: what was VWS willing to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u57	Fortunately, it does not call for a response from Mrs Dijkstra. But I'll warn the minister. I share my room with Mrs. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u58	Did I say anything wrong, Mrs. Dijkstra? I have answered your question earlier, namely the bandwidth that has been announced. The deal margin is confidential, but we do know the last offer, the list price, the number of patients and the discount rates. That's what we know. I think I have answered all the questions about transparency by now. The point that Mrs De Vries has made is a joint one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u59	There is an interruption by Mrs Dijkstra. You can continue, because Mrs Dijkstra is waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u60	The issue of co-operation with other countries. Can it be in a European context? But you could also use the Benelux-A, Benelux plus Austria purchasing combination to see if you can get more information. That's a very important route. I would have liked to have answered that in the direction of Mrs De Vries. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u61	The Minister says that he has answered all the questions about transparency, but quite briefly. In fact, the Minister states that there is already quite a degree of transparency at the moment. He mentioned a number of examples of this. But when it comes to making it more transparent in how the price of the product, the production price, relates to what we as a society pay and to what the academic centres have put in research with public money, the Minister does not give any clarity about it, nor about how he really wants to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u62	Mrs Dijkstra is absolutely right. There is an exciting triangle and it will always be there: patient, innovation, price medicine. In that triangle we find ourselves. If we ask the ultimate question: we want to have an annual accounts of development costs.......................................................................................................................................................... We won't, because there are always patients. We all want to start this discussion from the patient who needs a new medicine. You can try to improve it again, I feel very committed to that but there is also really an end to those possibilities. Except I'm not gonna name that, especially not in advance. I think I should pick up the glove, nationally and internationally, and then they'll find me here and there just a Don Quixote. But I think we can get a lot further, also in an international context, and you can say to pharmaceuticals: what is your license to operate? That's not just making a lot of money. That's helping people. You must be able to say to them: that is your responsibility; there must be your commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u63	Mrs Dijkstra, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u64	I agree with what the Minister says. We do not want to drive the industry away either, because we have an interest in new medicines. The minister says he's making a moral appeal to the pharmaceutical industry. Then I'll have the skepticism around the corner. We have seen in recent years that a great deal has already been tried to do so, but not very much has been achieved. What makes the Minister so optimistic about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u65	I'm not sure it's optimistic, but I do think I should seriously pick up this glove. I think it is important that we can be transparent about costs. But I think one more thing is that we help patients. That's where the tension is. If I were willing to always let the patient go first, I would have to say: then the price is also infinitely large. That is not possible, because we have helped today's patient, and I say it disrespectfully, but not tomorrow's patient. Here's the tension. I don't think you're coming all the way out of this triangle. I think that, like my predecessor, we must make a great effort to moderate prices and to get new medicines available, because that is what we also think is important. We think it is important that this happens quickly. Sometimes it's at the expense of other things. Pharmaceuticals say: if we make a public deal with you, other countries will be watching. We are not so impressed by that argument. But the reality is that a lot of the pharma is of course organized internationally and that it is not just about Dutch business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u66	That calls for an interruption by Mrs Ellemeet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u67	I would like to continue with this. It is of course very nice to start with a moral apple, but we also know that this has produced only limited results in recent years. In addition to Mrs Dijkstra's question, what else do you have in your hands? That's what I just asked in my speech. Can you outline a perspective: if that moral apple leads to little, what are you going to do? What do you have in your toolbox to ensure that prices go down and the medicines are made more available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u68	There's not that much in the toolbox. We will really talk about this, partly in response to the proposal made by your group and the report by the Health Council. So that's what we're gonna have to talk about. What might help is to license a pilot socially responsible. Mrs Dijkstra asked about this. One could say: if companies are asking for a high price for a new resource, they should also be willing to be transparent about it. You could also say: if you take advantage of the knowledge of universities that is public and that knowledge is transferred to the private side, then we are now demanding transparency. That could be something. I'm told I say it very carefully. I'm a little cautious, because I'm not sure what the chance of success is, but I'll be able to give the Chamber a social license on that pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u69	Mrs Ellemeet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u70	It's good to hear that. That pilot seems very important to me. It is also good to hear that at least my party and the SP and the PvdA will come up with a full toolbox which hopefully you can also benefit from. My final question is about the discussions you also want to have with the CEOs from industry and with European partners. At that time, you will also have to show that you are prepared to take a firm position. At that time it is also important to make a moral apple. But are you prepared to show a little more strength in those conversations than just the power that emanates from that apple?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u71	I try to move into the person I'm having that conversation with every conversation. In this case, I try to move into the role that such a pharmaceutical takes. I hope that in the coming week I will be speaking about a number of pharmaceutical products from the international context. I think they'll say, "So, you're a very firm guy; if you think this is so important, we'll go to another country first." Of course, there's always the wringing point. Then we are back here and we know that there is a patient group or a patient association that says: this is the means we have to work with. The firmness therefore knows its limits. Mr. Chairman. I must say one thing better than I said in reply to Mrs van den Berg. I may have just given the impression that if there is an Orkambi 2.0 on the market after Orkambi, the contract will expire. I didn't say that right. Then the better medicine is prescribed. Then the drug Orkambi is no longer relevant. It is not the case that the agreement will then crumble and fall apart. It is therefore a question of prescribing the new substance, which means that the older substance, in this case Orkambi, is no longer relevant, and the agreement does not, technically speaking, lapse. I'd like to make that improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u72	This correction is also important for the Acts. I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u73	Can we then conclude that everyone wants to use the means 2.0, that there is then zero reduction in Orkambi, and that there are therefore no guarantees in the agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u74	The Minister does not say anything about the content of the agreements made with Vertex, but of course it depends on what is prescribed. Now I'm pretending for all patients in all cases that new medicine is better. It won't often be like that. It will often be the case that for some patients a particular medicine has a better effect than for others. So it really depends on what is prescribed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u75	Thank you. A number of questions have been put by Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u76	Sure, I'm getting to that now. Mrs De Vries says: we are not just willing to pay everything to a pharmaceutical company. Mrs De Vries also said: we must not give false hope. I very much agree. What we do want is to have cost-effective medicines available quickly. In recent months, the VVD Group has made a point of this: can you see if we can get the admission procedures closer together? Two years should never happen again. Can't we turn it into months instead of a year or years? Then I come to the point of negotiating, purchasing and paying attention to compassionate use. It seems to me to be a very good idea to deal with this in an international context. We have advanced with the Benelux and Austria as a link that can jointly buy medicines. It would be good if other countries were to join. There's an active search to broaden that circle. Some issues can be addressed at European level. For transparency, for example, you can ask for even more attention in a much larger circle. Mrs De Vries also asked for new medicines to be made available to the patient more quickly. To this end, it is important that pharmaceuticals ensure that complete files are made available quickly and that the cooperation between market authorisation and such remuneration can take place as far as possible and as quickly as possible. This is true in the Netherlands and also in the European context. Europe's fee authorities are talking about this in order to speed up the pace through so-called early dialogues, to get industry to provide the right data and to make the data from the research that follows available as well as possible. The effect of this is that we, the Netherlands, are still in the leading group when it comes to the availability of new resources, and that is what we very much want to keep. I repeat it to Mrs De Vries: our position in the negotiations can really be strengthened internationally. This applies to purchasing, but this also applies to compassionate use programs. What we want is to put the patient at the centre, to help the patient with good new medicines and not to take counterproductive measures. Mr President, I thought I had answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u77	Thank you. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I see Mrs Agema walking forward and there is therefore a need for it. I give the floor to Mrs Agema to table a motion, I expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Medical Care in his letter dated 15 January 2018 sets out to aim for maximum transparency in the pricing of medicinal products;]] [[calls on the Government to set an example and to ensure that the documents relating to the negotiations on the Orkambi medicinal product are made public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that price negotiations on a medicinal product may last up to two years during the closing period and that patients are unable or insufficiently available for these medicinal products during this period, their health may deteriorate further and the uncertainty causes a great deal of stress;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that medicinal products are reimbursed during the closing period, in addition to the price negotiations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29477-463]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29477-464]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u79	Thank you. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister for saying that Big Pharma will ultimately decide. As far as his predecessor and his predecessors are concerned, I am not saying this directly in the direction of Minister Schippers, it seems that the pricing of Orkambi is a kind of drunken decision. It costs €80,000 and that is also what is paid, but that is exactly the amount the Healthcare Institute wants to spend on a won year of life. Eventually we have to watch out for that, because if Big Pharma doesn't like us anymore, they'll say at the next life-saving cure: you won't get it. Finally, I would like to add that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u80	Thank you. I will look at Mrs Ellemeet to see if she needs a second term. I do not see Mrs Van den Berg nodding either, Mrs Dijkstra neither, but Mrs De Vries does. Mrs De Vries, go ahead and take your time!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u81	This time you will? Well, it's gonna be very short as far as I'm concerned. In any case, I am pleased to hear that the Minister also considers it very important that we ensure that pharmaceuticals do not leave the Netherlands behind when they come up with new means, because that would be very bad for the patient. I trust he will take that into account in all the measures he intends to take. One more point on cooperation with other countries. There is indeed cooperation with the Benelux countries and Austria. We would be very much in favour of extending this group to include countries such as Ireland, Denmark or any other country that is interested in it. I think that many more countries face the same problem. So far, we have the idea that it is often about the exchange of information between these countries. We would therefore be very much in favour of jointly negotiating and buying together, because we believe that you will have a greater reach. The Netherlands is actually only a small country and it can therefore become attractive and it can make sure that you can also make better price agreements. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u82	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that he can respond immediately to Mrs Agema's motions. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u83	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'll deal with the two motions in a moment. In Mrs De Vries' speech there was another question, whether it was an appeal or an appeal, to take cooperation with other countries seriously for information exchange, for negotiation, for joint procurement. Her wish is mine. Of course there are talks with other countries. I haven't had much experience of that, but I thought there were talks with Ireland, among other things. Mrs De Vries pointed out that Denmark might have done the same. If there is any progress to be made, I will let you know. Then there are the two motions. I'm gonna go get the assessment framework. First, the motion in part No. 463, which calls on the government to set a good example and to ensure that the documents relating to the negotiations on the Orkambi medicinal product are made public. I don't recommend that motion. I have argued that we have made a confidential agreement and I must and want to keep that agreement. The motion in part No. 464 calls on the government to ensure that medicinal products are reimbursed during the closing period, in addition to conducting price negotiations. Mr President, I should also like to advise against this motion. I believe that the closure period should be used by the Healthcare Institute to provide good advice on cost-effectiveness. I'd love to have that drug available by then. Then I call on the manufacturer to make that drug available. That's why I advise against this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-14.u85	Next Tuesday, we're going to vote on the motions. I would like to thank the Minister for his contribution and also the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. I hope you'll all get home safely, because I don't think all trains are running yet.
