ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We begin with Mr Van der Molen's question to the Minister of Justice and Security, who replaces the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome the Minister. The question is about large ICT projects by the government. I call Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. This week, the Financial Dagblad headlines that major ICT projects in the government are going to cost at least €1 billion more than is currently on paper. 125 projects were examined by the newspaper. They are on average about a third more expensive and it often takes a third longer before they are finished. A striking newcomer to that sad list is the Immigration and Naturalization Service. It had a project of 1.2 million euros, but the counter is now at 29 million. And that project will be delivered four years later. How would the average Dutchman look at that? You could say: they're only doing a few things in those ministries, the ICT companies keep sending their accounts and the House of Representatives barely knows what's going on. That last conclusion also draws the CDA. The Elias Commission, which once looked at the ICT projects on behalf of the Chamber, said that the Chamber is entitled to a coherent report on all ongoing projects. Is it there now? No. So we can barely check here in the room. That is, even if you look at The Financial Daily, it is high time. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. Firstly, does the Minister know of a number of projects which have been delivered within the budget and within the agreed deadline and which are still working? I would say: if you could name three, we are a long way ahead. Isn't it time, as I ask the Minister, to give the House of Representatives an annual overview of all projects and how they run instead of an overview per ministry, which we often get, or a report when another incident occurs? Now there's a kind of dashboard that we can look at online, but you don't read why something went wrong. So that data doesn't always add up. This is my final question, President-in-Office of the Council, that the administration differs from one ministry to another and that we cannot therefore say that the figures available to the Chamber are correct. It's really time for that total review to come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Every year my colleague from BZK offers the Annual Reporting Company Rijk. This report also includes the overview of major projects with an ICT component of more than 5 million euros. That list, to which Mr Van der Molen refers, has been used by Het Financieele Dagblad. Preliminary draft: the Minister for the Interior is not responsible for these projects, but the individual ministers themselves are and remain responsible. It is true that the projects have become more expensive, as stated in the article in Het Financieele Dagblad. The total amount of about 1 billion is also correct. The increase in costs compared with previous estimates, sometimes very early, is from the initial period of a project. Professor Verhoef's research shows that the government's estimation quality is reasonably in order. These are bank transfers from 2011 and 2013. The higher costs may be based on several reasons. It doesn't say projects failed. New insights or extensions of projects can be a cause of this, or unforeseen circumstances, which in themselves can also be justified as "unforeseen." It is important to limit lead times as far as possible and to keep projects in size and budget as small as possible. That is one of the lessons of the Elias Committee, as well as of the BRP Committee. Another is that ICT projects need to be designed in such a way that they can move towards a final goal in small and manageable steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	And now the answer to Mr Van der Molen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	Yes. Mr Van der Molen asked for the dashboard, among other things. This gives not only an overview per organisation, but also of the companies involved. The idea of an annual overall overview will be given to the Minister of the Interior. It's up to the Home Office to get back to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	I know that the Minister of Justice and Security is here because the Secretary of State concerned is elsewhere. I assume that the cabinet will at least inform the Chamber of how the Secretary of State responds to the request for an overall overview. Because if the Audit Service itself says in its report that the overview may not be correct, what should we, as a Chamber, assume when assessing some of the projects that have gone wrong? And shouldn't it be a standard arrangement for such a project to stop when things go wrong? Now it is continued every time and it gets longer and more expensive. Shouldn't the standard appointment be normal: we stop, unless it looks good? Then I have one more question about the companies involved. A number of companies visit the website, such as Capgemini, Atos, IBM, KPN and Ordina. That list is only getting bigger. In 2017, these companies started working with more projects and more accounts were sent to the Empire. Now that the Minister is putting a question to the Secretary of State on my behalf, will he ask him to give an overview of the projects per company? Because I wonder if there are a number of notorious companies among them, projects of which are constantly derailing. I have one last question for the Minister. The BIT is a concept. That's the agency that has to oversee our ICT projects. As a result of the article in The Financial Daily, it was asked again: how independent is that, such an agency that sits within the Ministry of the Interior? Now there has recently been a matter whereby the BIT has been temporarily transferred to another board of directors within the Home Office. That had to do with a relationship between the CIO of the Empire and the agency manager. Shouldn't that just stay that way, so shouldn't it be a temporary facility? Shouldn't it be another management, so that independence is also better guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	To begin with, before the end of this year, a decision will be taken on the final suspension of the BIT for the period after 1 January 2019. It seems to me that we have to wait and see exactly how that is going to happen. Then the point of the companies. They are awarded contracts through public tenders. That is a transparent process. Those companies are named on the dashboard. I will certainly convey to the Secretary of State that you have indicated that you would like to read something about this in the overall overview. I will give it to him, but in principle there is transparency about the companies that receive the orders. Then the point of daring to stop. The Secretary of State for BZK, following the BRP Committee, has promised that the CIO Rijk will bring the lessons of that committee to the fore, including the point of daring to make the decision to stop at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. Then Mr Van Rooijen or Mr Alkaya. Who was first? Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	If I had my bathroom renovated and the contractor indicated at some point that the project wouldn't be completed in time, but that he would want to be paid by the hour from that point on, wouldn't it be insane if I agreed? Yet that is what happens with the government. In the government we lack the knowledge to be able to pay IT companies for results, which means that we continue to pay per hour for projects that will never come to fruition. What is the Minister going to do about this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	The lessons learned from the BRP committee have been brought to the attention of all ministries, as has been said. They are also being put into practice. We will have to check in the near future whether they are actually being taken up in a way that is 100% consistent with that. Of course, this also includes the fact that it is well steered at a balanced, market-related price. You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	And BRP stands for Basic Registration Persons. I'm just saying this for the people who don't know these abbreviations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u13	I welcome the attention of the CDA Group to this problem. Of course, I have also read the FD article with great care. Six weeks ago, the CDA voted against a motion of 50PLUS- and the cabinet also opposed it in order to examine the added value of an ICT minister. Can I assume that, in view of this misery, the cabinet will still be prepared to examine the need for a trade minister? And can the CDA support that, too? In this way it can be established what the added value of an ICT professional is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u15	Another $1 billion has been thrown over the beam. According to the Minister of Finance, it would only cost 2 fte to have a minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u16	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u17	I indicated in my first-term reply that it is certainly not the case that EUR 1 billion has been wasted. The exceedances are to a large extent related to the expansion of projects or to unforeseen circumstances in themselves which are still justified in order to continue in a project. That's one. And two. This cabinet has a balanced composition in terms of content. The ICT of the government is well invested in Home Affairs, also through this CIO Empire, which ensures that ministries do take on board what is at stake and what has been advised by these committees. That seems to me to be a sufficient answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Van Rooijen, I'm warning you. If you ask another question, Mrs Van Brenn will be unable to say anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u19	You don't have to warn me, because I wasn't going to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u20	Oh. You made such a gesture. No, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u21	It is interesting that we are now talking about state-wide numbers for ICT overbudgeting. I hadn't heard them yet. The Elias Commission has estimated that around 1 billion to 5 billion per year will be wasted on ICT projects. I would like to ask the Minister whether this is going to add an additional billion or whether it will help us to increase the estimate of what extra is being spent on ICT by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u22	I think the starting point is that the government should tighten up these estimates in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u23	One billion is really a lot of money, taxpayers' money. In order to be able to control the way in which it is spent, citizens, like us, have the right to information and protection, including expenditure. Does the Minister agree with me that we should make a nice report on all these ICT projects distributed across all departments, as promised by the Elias Commission? The Minister cited the audit service. However, the audit service does so afterwards. We would like the House to be reported in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u24	To report on things that are yet to come seems a bit complicated to me. I think there are reports, by the way. The Annual Reporting Company Rijk is extremely transparent. In the end, it was simply consulted by Het Financieele Dagblad. I will pass on Mr Van der Molen's thoughts on a possible other kind of annual review to the Secretary of State and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. They'll come back to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mrs Özütok, second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u26	I just wanted to go into the position of the BIT. There are increasing numbers of assignments, because the BIT also looks at the digitisation of other departments. Does the Minister agree with us that we should look at the position of BIT and not just at the inclusion, but also at the substantive side and the strength?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u27	I have indicated that the Secretary of State will look at the final hanging at the end of this year, beginning next year. Where exactly should BIT take place? There is no doubt that this test will also examine whether there is any reason to adapt certain other things in the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u28	Every time ICT projects go wrong, the government is coloured on them and taxpayers wonder if this is what they spend the money on, but the consequences can be even greater than that. So I would like to ask the Minister whether the Cabinet considers it acceptable that as a result of ICT projects that do not go as planned, there are risks or dangers for humans and animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u29	In the first place, it has not been said that ICT projects go wrong. What we are talking about today is that we are talking about exceeding the total cost of the project, which is state-wide. I have also explained this and explained it. When you talk about the safety of humans and animals, it goes without saying that ICT projects and procurement will also look into this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u30	Second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u31	That's smart, but that wasn't my question. My question was whether the cabinet considered it acceptable that the safety of humans and animals as a result of ICT projects that cost more time and money than budgeting would be at risk. The second question would then be, of course, whether the cabinet precludes this from happening. So I'd like a clear answer to those questions. Does the cabinet find it acceptable and can it rule this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u32	Especially when I look at my own portfolio of Justice and Security, the government is in favour of ensuring that citizens and animals in society have a safe life. That's starting point one. The starting point is that the procurement and subsequent management of the implementation of ICT projects must of course be monitored, or there should be no danger to society, individuals or individual animals, for example, when things go wrong in the implementation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u33	I think it would be wise, in particular, to look at the causes. As early as 29 November 2007, the General Court made an excellent analysis of this. And that is that the failure of ICT projects is mainly because the government is often too ambitious and too complex, with political, organisational and technical factors involved, so that it simply cannot be done. So we start each time on a technically complex project and then there is no balance between ambitions, available people, time and resources. That's how we get to the same point every time. What happened to that recommendation, which the then cabinet said it would embrace?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u34	The main common denominator of ICT projects is that ICT often has a progressive development. This means that if this project can develop new insights over several years, it will benefit the implementation of such a project. This means that you must always be willing to adjust the horizon and objectives of your project somewhat and perhaps even to a greater extent, because there may be positive developments in the technology for the project. By the way, once we have established this with each other, it does not relieve us as a government or departments of good paternity with regard to managing these projects. At the same time, we should not be too shy to say in some situations: it is good that we also include these new developments in the project, even though it may cost more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u35	Second question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u36	It's a wonderful answer but not an answer to my question. I asked a simple question. If research shows that we often want to carry out too complex projects that want to achieve all our ambitions at once, then the General Court says that this is doomed to failure. So maybe you need to adjust your level of ambition or maybe you need to make it a little less complex. My question is whether this will also be given when it comes to weighing up what projects we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u37	I will answer it very briefly. So that level of ambition can change in the course of your project, being adjusted by all kinds of new developments. I have just said: that does not alter the fact that you still have to judge from the outset as a good housekeeper or the objectives are realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you.
