ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u1	The next item is the VSO Agriculture and Fisheries Council. There were three speakers from the Chamber: Mrs Ouwehand, Mr De Groot and Mr Bishop. I would like to welcome the Minister. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Kangaroos, you wouldn't just think of them as food. And yet the European Union and the Netherlands import kangaroo meat. There's a lot wrong with that. Whistleblowers living in the area where these animals are slaughtered have made it clear and show that it is very cruel and inhumane. It is not easy to map that, because the animals live in the twilight and so their slaughter takes place in the twilight. But we have seen a documentary, the Minister has taken note of it, for which thanks show that the animals are suffering a horrendous agony. They don't get shot in one go. The dams often have young kangaroos in their pouch. They're either left to their fate or beaten to death against a car. California opted for an import ban years ago for this reason, and so did Russia, because this stuff is full of bacteria. The Minister immediately called Australia after looking at the footage, for which he thanked. According to the Australian authorities, the images of those whistleblowers are not representative. But a request from an Australian MP to investigate the kangaroo management program was blocked. The comparison with seal fur is compelling. We have also said: that is unacceptable. The Canadian authorities also said at the time: well, there's not that much going on. And yet we held our ground. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU has previously decided to remove controversial products from its market, such as seal fur and dog and cat fur, due to the cruel treatment and/or killing of the animals;]] [[noting that the EU still allows imports of kangaroo meat and products from Australia, while whistleblowers have revealed that this meat involves very cruel animal cruelty, such as the removal from the pouch and killing of youngsters, the abandonment of young children who depend on their mothers and the firing of animals, after which they face a long agony;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of banning controversial products such as kangaroo meat (and other kangaroo products) from the European market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u4	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current five-year exemption for the above-ground use of animal manure will expire this year;]] [[whereas only a small defined group uses the exemption;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the exemption for five years under the current conditions in order to use this period for follow-up research and development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Recently, the Minister and I had an exchange of views on the cultivation of elephant grass. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for a ruling from the Chamber. Elephant grass, indeed, has its limitations, but in its way contributes enormously to the enhancement of biodiversity by, among other things, covering large and small mammals and birds, especially in winter. Moreover, it captures huge amounts of CO in the soil and is an important raw material, and increasingly important raw material, for the biobased economy. Hence the next motion. If an agreement is to be reached in Brussels, it must be settled before 1 August. That's why it's in a hurry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Commission has extended the list of options for implementing the 5% ecological focus areas to include the cultivation of Miscanthus, or elephant grass;]] [[Whereas during the winter period elephant grass provides soil cover and shelter for animals and birds, captures CO and supplies building materials for the biobased economy;]] [[calls on the Government to add the cultivation of elephant grass by 2019 to the national list of options for implementing the 5% ecological focus areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u8	Thank you. In doing so, we have received three motions from the Chamber. I'll suspend a moment until the Minister has all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u9	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the members of the Chamber for tabling a number of motions. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 1114 calls for measures to be taken or to explore ways of banning controversial products such as kangaroo meat from the European market. We have already discussed this during the general consultation. In Australia, the commercial hunt for kangaroos is tied to a National Code of Practice for the Human Shooting of Kangaroos and Wallabies for Commercial Purposes. That's a mouthful, but they have a code for that. I have no specific indications that this code is not being complied with in commercial hunting. That is why I do not have sufficient grounds to advocate or consider a trade ban on kangaroo meat. As I said in the general discussion with Mrs Ouwehand, I asked the Australian authorities about the images from the film that Mrs Ouwehand refers to. According to the Australian authorities, these are probably not from commercial hunting, but from non-commercial or, well, recreational hunting. I'm not saying that to condone the footage from that movie. I've already indicated that I was really, really not okay with that, but it's important to put it in that context. So on the basis of the information I have, I see no reason at this time to advocate or investigate that trade ban on kangaroo meat from Australia. There's no ground for that, so I'm going to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u11	Thanks again to the Minister for having wanted to look at the footage and for having contacted the Australian authorities. The motion asks to investigate, because we're getting a little stuck. We are really getting signals from Australia that the authorities have no great interest in telling the truth. In this way, an investigation requested by Members of Parliament is blocked. How are we gonna get that over with? If there are signs that they do not comply with their own code, is that a basis for setting a moratorium? And what can we learn from the ban on seal fur? I'm really looking for the possibilities and the possible steps we could take. At the moment, my only request to the Minister is: what is needed? What are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u12	I just turned that in. The Australian authorities have indicated that this is not a commercial hunt. A code has been agreed that the commercial yacht must comply with. There is no reason to ask the Australian authorities to do so, so I do not see any possibilities there. Seal fur is really a different discussion. That is what the WTO and the like have been saying, so that is a much broader context. So I'm sticking to my judgment and dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u13	One more question. I do not know the reasons for this, but I do know that there are European audit teams to check whether slaughterhouses in Latin America, for example, comply with their own rules. It seems that we now have to rely blindly on what the Australian government itself says about compliance with its own codes. Is there any room in there? Does the EU also have a position to say that we might want to control it ourselves? I'm really looking for that. That is why I ask the Minister to help the Chamber and put it on the right track in the sense of: where could we possibly follow up? 'Cause I don't really know myself right now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u14	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u15	I have outlined the framework within which we must operate. I have indicated what I have exchanged with the Australian authorities. The Australian Parliament has powers of its own, but I have no reason to do so now. That's what I indicated, and that's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u16	Thank you. Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u17	Mr. Chairman. The motion-De Groot/Futselaar in part No. 1115 concerns the exemption for the current conditions for the continued use of manure from the upper soil. This is a rather wide-ranging discussion which I believe was held a number of years ago. The use of manure above ground naturally has consequences for ammonia emissions. This is also apparent from scientific research. We also have a lot of discussions in the Chamber about ammonia. That is also why we are taking measures to limit them. The above-ground use of ammonia increases emissions, according to scientific research. That is why measures were taken at the time. Well, we have the PAS. You always keep me very strong on how to keep the PAS. I shall then be looking a little bit for how this motion relates to the objectives set in the PAS. How should ammonia be reduced? I understand that there is a group that would like to continue using it above ground. The motion also states that it is a fairly defined group. I've just checked the numbers. Five years ago, the scheme was based on the assumption that there were about 150 farmers who used it. By now, it's almost 400. Last year there were 424. If I grant an exemption, that is also an exemption for a larger group. So I'm kind of looking at how this motion relates to the fact that the same proposers always keep me so close to the PAS and to ammonia emissions. How am I supposed to limit it? Precisely because we have this measure, because we need to reduce ammonia emissions, I would advise against this motion. But I would also ask the proposers to indicate how they want to rhyme with each other when they say at the same time that ammonia emissions should be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u18	I give the opportunity to do so. Mr De Groot is going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u19	To make a long story short, the following. You also sent a letter about the soil. Within the framework of the government agreement, we are thinking about farming more from a circular point of view. These are farmers who are doing what other farmers have been doing less and less. They feed the crops from the soil. These crops are not fed from above, but from the bottom. So they go in a very different way to feed the animals differently with manure. You see there elements of what one might call circular agriculture... circular agriculture itself is somewhat larger.. and are in line with the thinking that is now taking place within the framework of the government agreement and your own letter about the soil. Then your question about the PAS. The measurement of the PAS is still very controversial. Of course, we must do everything we can to reduce ammonia emissions, but I do not believe that this measure is actually undermining ammonia policy. On the contrary, I suspect that this is why we are calling for research to be carried out in order to prevent ammonia emissions if we deal with manure properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u20	It is true that I have sent a bottom letter in which I have indicated that we need to look much more closely at manure in relation to the soil. But then you can also think about the amount of minerals that a particular piece of land needs. Can you apply that very specifically there? You can do the same with, for example, manure degradation. There are many possibilities in which you can shape that, also in such a way that we also meet our ammonia targets. Because that's what your Chamber always keeps me to, that's what I always get back. Mr De Groot talks about a very specific group of farmers operating on a circular basis. If I grant an exemption, it is not entirely limited to a specific group that gives food to animals in a certain way. An exemption is an exemption. I can't maintain it, either, if I could do it that way. On the one hand, we are trying to simplify manure legislation, and indeed we are looking at what exactly we need to do to fertilise the soil very well and precisely. There are, I think, a lot of innovations in this area, but this method has been shown to produce more ammonia emissions. I find that complicated, because at the same time the Chamber is asking me to do something about ammonia emissions. So I can't completely reconcile that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u21	Short. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u22	I understand the Minister's dilemma, but you should not only look at the impact of certain measures. You have to look at the whole thing and as a whole this form of agriculture is a lot more environmentally friendly, also in relation to ammonia, than precisely what the PAS focuses on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u23	The Minister may respond to this, but he doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u24	In my view, I have already indicated that, if we exempt this, it is not an exemption for one specific circular farmer, but a more general exemption, thus increasing the number. If that has any consequences for ammonia emissions, they are also the responsibility of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u25	It is, of course, a motion from my colleagues, but I believe that there is still a discussion on ammonia measurements. We are having this discussion not so much with this minister but with the Secretary of State of IenW. At least it is important to take that with you. We are talking about ammonia emissions, but if the measurements are wrong, there are really a lot of critical questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u26	There's been a lot of discussion about ammonia measurements. I'm familiar with that. That discussion is indeed taking place with the Secretary of State. I think we should take a good look at those measurements anyway, but that is independent of the fact that we know that there is also more ammonia when you drive out above ground. It has also been scientifically proven that this is the case, regardless of the measurements. So I would like to have a whole discussion about the measurement system, I think it will also be conducted with the Secretary of State for IenW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u27	We should not have that debate here, because it belongs to the Secretary of State for IeW, as the Minister rightly points out. We have also addressed it a number of times there. But I'm also looking at the countries around us. Of course, it is hard for farmers to see that it cannot be done in one Member State and in another. In any case, I would like to make the appeal to look at this again in a broader context, perhaps with this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u28	I must also make a group opinion on this motion. To be honest, I'm not sure. I have just spoken to the spokesperson of the farmers who are using this method. There are, of course, disadvantages in terms of ammonia emissions, presumably. There are also advantages, namely that soil life seems to be much more natural and better. So there are also advantages. Let me get rid of it for a second. I would like to ask another question. Are there many complaints from neighbors about nuisances? I remember when I was a kid when it smelled like a giant smell when those vulture tanks were emptied on the fields. But now these people have just told me that is absolutely not the case. Can the Minister state whether there are any other drawbacks to this? Didn't this create a major nuisance for residents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u29	I don't know that specifically. I don't have any data on that either. It is quite right for Mr Madlener to say that we should also look for ways that are good for soil life. In the Bottom Letter I also indicated that we should go there. But the Technical Committee on Soil, for example, already points out that there are alternatives for these farmers where ammonia emissions are reduced, but where manure is run out in such a way, for example, diluted with water in slits and the like, which can be met with all these aspects. So there are possibilities. We should also look together at what ammonia emissions do, at least, your room always thinks I should.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u30	Finally. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u31	The ammonia emissions are under discussion. Soil life seems to benefit from this; I do not think that is in question. What is very important to me now is: what about the locals? The odour nuisance is also an important aspect. The Minister has already indicated that, if she allows it, this will apply to a very large, perhaps much larger group. Then I'd like a little more information on this. Anyway, I don't know how to get that either. So I honestly doubt whether we should support this motion. I will discuss it with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u32	I too am struggling with this motion: how do you deal with such a small improvement or a minimal step in a system that we need to look more radically at? My question is about ammonia. I understand what the Minister is sketching here, but isn't it true that if this motion is adopted and implemented, the space within the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is just getting smaller, that in the system itself the space for the nitrogen deposition becomes smaller and that you then have to release new assessments in that system? Is that the result of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u33	If more farmers are to make use of this, space will indeed decline. Because you get extra ammonia emissions, which has consequences in the system of the PAS. Because some farmers are going to drive out in a certain way and are going to do more, other farmers may have to pay for it. I think that's a high price.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u34	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u35	Could the Minister outline whether this fits within the existing space in the PAS or whether it has greater consequences? I can imagine that she will send a letter to the Chamber on this motion and explain exactly what its consequences might be. When it comes to reducing the scope for issuing new licences, I do not think there is a problem, because then you have not yet entered into any commitments. But if it does not fit into the current permits and we are going to exceed the ammonia deposition, then there is a real objection as far as my group is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u36	The ammonia deposition is naturally determined by a set of factors. That's not one of them. Of course, we have already indicated that there is space, but that it will be smaller soon. This doesn't add up to any of them. I'm gonna have it flipped over to make the space bigger again. In fact, if this increases, you'll run into the boundaries of the PAS before. In the end, this has consequences for activities that need to be carried out, perhaps by others, but that space is indeed limited in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u37	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u38	The minister is a bit suggesting that with an exemption you open the door for mass use. She says it was 150 and it's now 400. I still do not find that very much on the number of Dutch farms. There are also conditions to meet. I understand the concern of 'I do not want to open the doors' et cetera, but as far as we are concerned, there is a good deal to talk about what additional conditions you would have to impose in order to comply with this on top of current policy. However, we would like to keep that possibility open, which is now being used by a very sympathetic, relatively small group. To say that we are closing the door completely and abolishing the regulation at all, we are going a little too far. So if the minister could meet us in this somewhere, we'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u39	I am going to answer this a little sharply, but Mr Futselaar may have that. "A sympathetic group" is a subjective statement. I'm serious. I find a lot of farmers sympathetic, but in the end they all have to comply with the rules. I understand that Mr Futselaar thinks it is a friendly group and I also see that those farmers do things that we would like them to do, but in the end the rules apply to everyone. Mr Futselaar says that there are only 400 left, but you can also say that it has already increased from 150 to 400 in the last five years. It has consequences for ammonia emissions. There are alternatives. We all have a responsibility here. That's what I'm being held to by this Chamber every time to keep the PAS. On the basis of these arguments, I can only advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u40	Then I change "sympathy" into "this group of farmers creates a particularly interesting test ground when it comes to other forms of soil management, which we need so much in these changing times and renewed insights when it comes to manure use."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u41	That does not change my judgment on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u42	Having listened to the discussion, I would ask the Minister whether it is not an idea to list in a letter to the Chamber how we could get out of this, under what conditions it might be possible. Indeed, I hear some comments on the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen. In my view, existing uses are included. This is existing use, no matter how large or small. Is the Minister prepared to outline in a letter to the Chamber the dilemmas and possible directions for resolution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u43	I think that's a lot of questions. Then I'm about to become the problem owner of a motion filed by the Chamber. At the moment there is use. That's true. That's also included in the models. Only, we've seen an increase in this in recent years. That's my point. I don't know if that increase is stopping or not. If that arrangement is in place, it may increase more. Driving out of the ground has an effect on ammonia emissions. I know that, too. In the end, it is a trade-off that you yourself, on the basis of this motion, have to make. What dilemma do you think weighs more heavily? I would point out that I do not think it is consistent. We've got the PAS. We need to take measures to reduce ammonia emissions. And there are alternatives, also for the farmers who want to drive out above ground, because that is what we are talking about. I think it makes sense that we use the applications where the least ammonia is emitted. That's my whole story. I don't see that right now with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u44	Very briefly, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u45	If the motion is adopted, the Minister will also be the problem owner of this motion. Perhaps she can prevent that by sending a letter to the Chamber with the pluses and minuses and the considerations in that regard. I thought it was a little short by the turn and going too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u46	I don't think there's gonna be any other pluses or minuses in that letter than I've listed now. I want to be very realistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u47	That'll dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u48	Yes, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u49	Fine. Then we go to the third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u50	The motion in part No. 1116 by Mr Bishop is about elephant grass, on which we have had an interesting discussion. I talked to Mr Bishop about that. I have indicated that we have established a framework within which we consider whether a particular crop contributes enough to promote biodiversity. I have indicated that the added value of elephant grass is below the standard we have set. The WUR has also supported this with an opinion I had asked for. The Chamber received that report as well. The EFA obligation is intended to promote biodiversity. Because elephant grass didn't score well enough on our own measuring bar, I said that's why we don't do it. But now let me make a generous gesture. If the Chamber says 'it doesn't pay as much as we want, but it does make a contribution', let me leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. If the Chamber wants it to be done, we'll have time to sign it up before August and we'll do our best. It could have done more with the contribution to biodiversity, but there is a contribution. "Judge Room," so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u51	Thank you. Then this VSO has come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-41.u52	The votes on the motions will be taken next Tuesday. After the suspension, we will begin at 7 p.m. with Mr Veldman's own-initiative proposal.
