ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	I shall now give the floor to Mr Middendorp for his question on the fact that he is no longer allowed to work after the AOW age by the State official. The question is actually addressed to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, but it is being replaced today by the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I welcome. Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Officials are important to the administration of our country. There are thousands of people working with the government day in, day out. If you've worked your whole life for the public cause, what do you think when you read that state officials who have reached the AOW age will be fired in the future? Mr. Chairman. That can't be true, can it? If people at a high age state for themselves that they want to remain committed to the public cause, should we not applaud it? Does the Minister share that point of view? If so, why do they have to be fired when they can continue to work until after 70? Mr. Chairman. What else is there to do to ensure that all those people who want it and can still be useful to the government can simply continue to work in the government? Working conditions are very important to make people feel good at work. Especially in sectors where we really need everyone, it is very important that the cabinet looks closely at what it can do. Attracting more people to the government isn't just a paycheck. That's also in terms of working conditions. Today, the Dutch ICT announced that it is also very difficult in the private sector to recruit new staff in ICT. There were also all examples of what you can do. What is the government doing to create the working conditions in the near future and also to use them in the battle for talent, for example in the field of ICT?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of the Interior has made agreements with the trade unions of the Rijk sector in the Dutch collective agreement 2018-2020 on whether or not to continue working after the AOW age. These agreements will enter into force on 1 January 2020. These agreements have been made with trade unions and stem from the Strategic Staff Policy of the Empire 2025. On 13 July 2018, the Minister of the Interior sent a comprehensive letter to the Chamber explaining and explaining the situation. I will only repeat this briefly here. The Empire wants to be an attractive employer for young and old. The cabinet therefore strives to achieve a balanced ratio in the workforce. The average age of the Empire has fluctuated for years around 47.5 years and is therefore not a proportional reflection of working Netherlands. This is also evident from the Annual Report on the Management of Rijk 2017 sent to you. Further work after the AOW age remains possible in the Rijk sector on the basis of agreement between employer and employee and is therefore possible if the interest of the service so requires, also taking into account the personal circumstances of the employees of course. In this way, necessary expertise, as Mr Middendorp rightly points out, is retained and available. Moreover, this method, which has thus been agreed with the trade unions in the Empire and on which the workers' side has been able to give real input, is already in force with other government and educational employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	I think the direction we are talking about is actually the wrong one. You can say it's a small point, but I don't think it's a small point if you see a change in the way your employer looks at you when you get to the AOW age. That's one. That is why I am actually asking what the cabinet is doing to make working conditions much more timely. Does the cabinet ask civil servants, for example in critical sectors such as ICT, how can we use working conditions to attract people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	That's a very valid point. This has been taken into account in the negotiations that preceded the collective agreement Rijk 2018-2020, which resulted, among other things, in this agreement. Once again, this is part of a number of strategic commitments in personnel policy agreed between the unions and the Empire. I also concluded by saying that it is certainly the intention, precisely because of these agreements, to maintain the expertise well and at the same time to have a more balanced workforce.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would ask the Minister to give some examples of the strategic actions taken in which the direction of what the cabinet is doing actually sounds much better. So not like this: we're basically gonna fire people when they reach the AOW-right age. But so: in the negotiations we have also made this and this and this point in the working conditions over time, and we are going to make working in the Empire more attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	First of all, let there be no misunderstanding: there is no such thing as dismissal; it is automatic termination at the age of AOW. I agree that I will pass on this point to my colleague in the Interior. This is a collective agreement which it has negotiated in detail with the trade unions. Otherwise, I'd be a little too much on her property. So I think it would be best for her to return to it in a brief letter. I would like to tell you that you already find a number of things in the letter of 13 July. But I suggest that she send a supplementary letter where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you for that, Mr President, to the Minister. I very much look forward to that. I have, of course, also read the letter the Minister just told us about. I would like to see the focus on what has been done to really use working conditions as an instrument to attract people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'll give that to the colleague. That seems to me to be a very real point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Tax Administration, inspection services; we all face labour shortages, a shortage of people we desperately need. We also saw the disastrous consequences when we let people with a lot of money walk out the door at the IRS. We're short, aren't we? Why wouldn't this cabinet want to give space to officials who have the will to continue? Why should this be blocked by simply letting it go automatically?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	Here is the point: the good thing about these agreements in the collective agreement is that the employee and the employer together establish that it is in the service interest to do so, and that the personal circumstances of the employee concerned are also taken into account. This is explained in more detail in the letter. On the one hand, there is incentive policy. On the other hand, it is ensured that the work experience remains at the forefront; this is literally stated in the letter. So we can really use people where we need them, even after retirement, but at the same time take account of service interests and the personal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
