ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. We always hear sad stories from corporations that there isn't enough money. They can't build enough real corporate homes and they can't make them sustainable enough. The rents continue to rise. But what do I read in the A.D. now? There's plenty of money. In fact, corporations make billions of profits. More can be built. More can be preserved and the rents can and should be reduced. Corporates have to get to work. Exactly how much money do corporations have to convert and make sustainable? How big is the task exactly? How much should be built and preserved? I have already called on the Minister to map out where and how many can be built, with numbers and locations, per municipality. Also an affordable rent remains important for the VVD. We have already made proposals to reduce the maximum rent of corporate homes. In addition, we must continue to look at the sustainability of corporate housing. That's what the VVD's been asking for years. The first agreements were made in 2012. This is postponed every year. Time slips through our hands. Can the Minister make an effort not to postpone the 2021 deadline for another year this year? Especially now that it has been confirmed that there is more than enough money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Mr Koerhuis for his questions regarding the coverage of corporations. Fortunately, we, Mr Koerhuis and I, occasionally have the opportunity to discuss this subject with each other. In my view, we are in any case in agreement on one thing, namely that the corporations are an important partner, especially now that, because there is a shortage, we have to invest in building, building more, including in the social rental sector. Mr Koerhuis asks how big the task is, how much is to be built and how much needs to be preserved. How can we be sure that this will be properly launched in order to achieve our objectives in the long term? The ambitions of the cabinet on this point are, of course, clear. Mr Koerhuis knows them. We want a fully CO-neutral built environment by 2050. That seems far away, but to achieve that, steps need to be taken now. We are making these agreements, including with the corporations, so that we know exactly what they are going to do to help achieve that task. We have agreed with the sector, which, of course, has happened before, and until 2021 the B-label will be realised on average. Once again, our ambition is to make even more and better agreements with the sector, but that is still ongoing. Mr Koerhuis has also asked whether we will be able to see at the level of municipalities what is needed for new construction, including sustainability. I have already promised him that there will be an overview of the planning capacity in the People's Housing State. That will be an overview by region. But since I am well aware that there are major bottlenecks in certain municipalities in the Netherlands, I will try to zoom in as much as possible at the level of the municipalities where there are bottlenecks, including to meet Mr Koerhuis's question. It is, of course, important that the agreements are finally made locally. The same applies to energy saving and sustainability. Corporations, for example, should also make these label-B agreements locally. As far as the cabinet is concerned, the municipalities have an important role to play in realising our energy strategy. Mr. Chairman. I could say a lot more on the subject, but I'm already in red. I hope that I have answered Mr Koerhuis's questions, at least for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u4	I thank the Minister for her answers. It is good to continue to use the three strokes: build, keep the rents as low as possible. There's a huge shortage of houses now. So we have to build, build, build. Then everyone can find their own house. In addition, an affordable energy bill is important for everyone. That is why we need to make it more sustainable. That needs to be clarified now. Not a printout of figures that we already know from the State of Housing, but an answer to the question of where and how much exactly should be built and preserved in the coming years, with per municipality numbers and locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u5	And you're asking for a response from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yes. Where and exactly how much should be built and preserved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u7	I think that in the end Mr Koerhuis will be able to judge whether I have done well to his liking when the pieces are there. My commitment stands. I'll put it in visual. That will certainly be by region and where it can be, and especially where it pinches, zoomed in by municipality as much as possible, because I am well aware of what Mr Koerhuis has already asked me several times. In any case, we agree on the important role of corporations in building and making them sustainable. In the end, I see my role as that of a driver and as someone who can help from The Hague to get what is needed in the region and locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u8	I thank the Minister for her answers. For the VVD, building and sustaining houses remains one of the most important challenges for the coming years. I hope to be clear. Fortunately, we often come to talk to the Minister about this. In doing so, the VVD will continue to emphasise the importance of building, sustaining and keeping rents as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u9	That's it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. Thanks also to Mr Koerhuis for his sharp questions. It's thanks to his party that the rental homes have not been paid in recent years. If you look at 2012 compared to now, people pay 17% more. Last year, these housing corporations made a profit of 3.3 billion euros. In the meantime, people have also had to pay even more taxes to get through the crisis caused by the banks. My question to the Minister is: how do we explain that to the people at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u13	To begin with, housing corporations are not there for themselves, but for the tenants in the Netherlands, and certainly for the tenant with a smaller scholarship. That's what they're for. The agreement in the Netherlands is also that the housing sector does not make a profit for itself and that every euro that comes in also has to go back to the sector. There's a lot of ways to do that. This can be done by moderate rental policies, by investing in sustainability and by investing in new construction. I consider all three essential. The housing corporation sector is now doing so. Fortunately, housing corporations are financially a lot healthier than in the past. That does not mean that it is the same across the board, because there are, of course, differences between different housing corporations. But across the board they are a lot healthier, and therefore more able to do what they are for, namely provide affordable rentals in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u14	I see you want to interrupt again, Mr. Azarkan, but you've been there twice. Mrs Beckerman, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u15	Government policy does not seem to work, because the extra tax imposed on tenants by the cabinet is charging tenants. As my predecessor has just said, there has been 17% more rent since 2012. That's due, among other things, to your cabinet's landlord tax. Tenants bacon the greenhouse of both the State and the corporation. Is it not time to abolish this landlord's tax and convert it into an investment obligation, so that we can build a lot more social housing and make more sustainable, improve more and lower rents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think we are at least in agreement on that three-stroke. That is what needs to be done: firstly, moderate rent development, which is also differentiated according to group of people, at least as far as I am concerned, because that is not what Mrs Beckerman said: second, investment in building, in new buildings and in new rental houses and, thirdly, sustainable housing. That's what needs to be done. The differences of opinion between Mrs Beckerman and me may be in terms of the capacity of housing corporations and the extent to which there is a burden on tenants. As I said, fortunately, the corporation sector is now much better off than it was some time ago. That is good, because it is important that the corporations are financially sound. Fortunately, there is also enough room for the investment needed. I would like to say that the rental policy of recent years has been differentiated by income, so I am not in favour of doing the same thing across the board, as in the case of the overall reduction of rent. There are also tenants who can pay those rent increases, and fortunately we also have rent surcharge in the Netherlands, which gives the people who need it a concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u17	D66 welcomes the Minister's statement that it is not so much about profit but about money that still needs to be invested. That's important. The question then is why there is not enough investment. There are still sustainability targets that are not being met and there are still quite long, and in some places very long, waiting lists. Can the Minister provide insight into why the money is not all invested?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mrs Van Eijs rightly said that "profit" is a bit of an unhappy word, because the money always stays in the sector. The choice is exactly what you use it for: do you make a good assessment? In reply to another question, I said that although the sector has become much healthier across the board, there are large differences between regions and housing corporations. If there is sufficient investment capacity across the board, this does not mean that it is just right everywhere. We still have a great deal to catch up on in the Netherlands. I see it as my task to stimulate, in consultation with the sector, the municipalities and the provinces, so that we can speed up and accelerate investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. We're going to vote at 3:00.
