ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Beckerman, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yesilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Agnes Mulder establishing a framework for the development of policies aimed at irreversible and gradual reduction of Dutch greenhouse gas emissions in order to limit global warming and climate change, i.e. the Climate Act, Section 34534. I would like to welcome all the initiators. It is incredibly nice to see that seven parties with different political colours have found each other and come up with an initiative legislative proposal. So I'm saying congratulations. It belongs afterwards, but this case is really an exception. I think it's very special to experience it. In the defense of the bill, they are supported by Mrs Dominique Crijns, climate policy coordinator at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, Mr Tom Smolders, lawyer at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, Mr Yorian Bordes, policy officer at the GroenLinksgroup and Mr Michel Crevecoeur, policy officer at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Welcome, too. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I can hardly see him, because he's almost completely in the corner of box-K. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this legal treatment may take place before the ceremony, or else afterwards. I am very pleased that at least two Members of Parliament who are often standard members of the interrupting microphone, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher, are in trade-K today and are only listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u2	I now give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Sienot, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Nine years ago, when I quit my job at a world-famous IT company to fight climate change, I didn't dream that I would be the first speaker here today to discuss this historic climate law. Especially when I think about how I started for myself back then. As a blogger for several sustainable websites, I travelled to Copenhagen to follow the Climate Summit. Although the agreement was made to stay within the 2 ̊C warm-up, everyone went home with a hangover. The sense of urgency and action was lacking at that summit. I did write for a website with optimistic news, but the courage fell in my shoes. Can we really not tackle climate change together, such a major threat to our shared life on Earth? But that doubt didn't last long. Since then, I have followed intensively how people in society pick up the glove themselves. All kinds of people act in their own way for the climate, with big and small choices in their personal lives, by opting for green electricity or solar panels, by taking the bike more often, by separating plastic waste. Others start a solar company from their attic room. And others are opening a green savings account. In short, society has been moving faster towards a green future than politics in The Hague for some time. All those people who take responsibility find the Empire on their side today. From now on, it is legally established that we, as a country, are also taking responsibility for achieving the climate targets. That is important, because change is ultimately due to people who really do something, who act. Something must be done, it is clear. The emissions of greenhouse gases are warming up our planet. If we don't do something about it, at the end of this century, the Earth will be more than four degrees warmer. The seas are about a meter higher, there are on average ten times as many heat waves and the water shortages triple. The Netherlands will also notice this, before and behind the dikes. Moreover, climate change is already showing its face. This cork dry summer really only rained weather records. The level of water in the Rhine is still too low, as a result of which, for example, inland waterway vessels cannot supply the service stations. Mr. Chairman. The IPCC brings together all scientific knowledge on climate change, including climate skeptics, and on this basis it creates a worrying picture. Recently, the panel warned that the world was doing best to keep the temperature increase within one and a half degrees. That is why this is an historic law, because seven different parties say that the climate is changing and that people have an influence on it, and above all that we need to take action. We need to stay below that two-degree warming. Of course, there are people in the Chamber who think we can solve the climate problem by looking the other way or looking the black eye for who it's never enough, but change starts with people who act. And I'm glad we do. The coalition could have come up with a climate law itself, but there was already a nice initiative by PvdA and GroenLinks to legally agree climate goals. The signature of both the coalition and so many opposition parties shows: ambitious climate goals transcend political preferences. Because the climate does not wait for a cabinet of only green parties. By working with six other parties we connect left and right. Keeping the earth viable for our children and grandchildren concerns everyone. With this law, we commit to real ambitious climate goals until 2050, beyond this cabinet period. With great pride and admiration, therefore, I look at the colleagues who are in trade-k and have worked so hard on this law. There are only seven other countries in the world that have a climate law, and we are therefore at the forefront of this law. If we continue to work together in the same spirit, we can also take huge international opportunities in the climate transition. Imagine: Green Valley Holland, Silicon Valley, but then sustainably and fairly distributed with, for example, a green hydrogen cluster in Groningen where countries from all over the world can take an example. Not only water policy becomes our export product but also hydrogen policy. If we focus on 100% renewable energy, we can create 300,000 jobs in the sustainable sector in the coming years, prevent more than 6,000 premature deaths from air pollution per year and save 70 billion in health costs. Moreover, we become independent of the energy from rogue states. Mr. Chairman. This law also guarantees climate action and parliamentary participation. For the next ten years, we will have a climate plan that we will be able to review every year, and we will be able to adjust it every two years as a Chamber. We invest the powers with responsible ministers and planning agencies to secure the final goals. No more non-binding policies or delays, but a clear, politically enforceable task. In addition to the climate plan, the Minister provides a climate note every year, which we also discuss. We do have two questions for the proposers. How do we involve questions and concerns from society at these moments? When can we start with this new way of policy making and monitoring? Mr. Chairman. After Copenhagen came Paris. That brought hope. Leaders from all over the world sign an international climate agreement, but Paris will only succeed if we act nationally. And that can only be done by working together. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to congratulate all my fellow Members who are here in Box K. Despite all the political differences, they are team climate today. With the Climate Act we are today determining the "what" of our climate policy and we hope that we can also hold the team spirit well when determining the "how." If it's D66, we're gonna hear a lot from this team. Together we can ensure a green future with healthy air, liveable cities, more comfortable living and jobs, lots of jobs! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to endorse your congratulations to the initiators. They're very justified. I'll say a little more about that in a minute. I would also like to endorse what Mr Sienot said. It is a truly unique day on which we are discussing a historic law. Unique, because of seven parties working together, and historically, certainly from the perspective of my party that has been working for 29 years to address climate change adequately, because there is now a legislative proposal that is going to bind so many cabinets and parliaments to the so important goal of achieving at least 95% CO reduction by 2050. Climate change is the biggest challenge we as a human being face at the moment. Global warming is the direct consequence of our own actions. Since industrialization we have emitted so many greenhouse gases that, as a direct result, the average temperature on earth has already risen structurally 1 ̊C. We are already hard on our way to the 1.5 C. We are in a trend, unfortunately confirmed yesterday with the very bad news, that we have emitted 2.7% more CO, higher than ever. We're on a trend in the direction of 3 C. Even if we manage with all our efforts, not only in the Netherlands but worldwide, to stay below 2 ̊C, as the IPCC scientists predict, 95% of the coral reefs have died. The damage in the world is already increasing more and more. We see loss of biodiversity on a large scale. Tropical rainforests and fertile agricultural land are disappearing, islands and deltas are flooding more and more, desertification is on the rise, forest fires are multiplying and more and more people are being forced to evacuate or even emigrate. Even if the world community succeeds in achieving that 2 ̊C, there is already a great deal of damage and our policy will also have to assist those affected by it, including in our foreign policy and in our migration policy. Many studies have now shown that direct material damage and economic contraction as a result of doing nothing will be much greater than the cost of timely and adequate intervention. There are three reasons why the Netherlands and the rest of the world are struggling with this timely intervention. First of all, tackling climate change is suffering from the tragedy of the horizon. It is a disaster that is taking place slowly but quite inevitably, making it an enormous challenge in the short term to achieve the right level of urgency and action. In this sense, each of us is in the proverbial situation of the frog who does not feel that the temperature in the pan is steadily rising. Secondly, tackling climate change is suffering from the tragedy of opinion, better known as tragedy of the commons. It is still far too easy, especially for large polluters, to blame the external costs of emissions on the community. It pays in the short term to be a freerider and to charge the other for the costs. This applies to rich citizens, to large companies, but also to governments with fossil-intensive economies. They all tend, with the argument of imminent loss of income in the short term, to place the costs for a timely approach to climate change on the plate of others, preferably on the board of something abstract like the entire world community. Thirdly, tackling climate change suffers from the tragedy of large scale. Especially since industrialisation, carbon has been one of the most important pillars of all our economic and technological developments. This affects the reduction of CO emissions almost all facets of our lives, not only how we generate energy but also how we produce our food, manufacture and transport our products, how we transport ourselves, how we heat our homes and utilities, and how we get the power or power to run all our devices and means of production. It is complex to tackle all this at the same time in a large-scale transition, not only technically but also in terms of distribution issues. Who is held responsible for what reduction? How are the desires and burdens distributed exactly and fairly? What makes today a unique and historic day is that the initiators have taken a big step together to take a substantial step forward, in spite of these three tragedies, to actually achieve a 95% CO reduction by 2050, by laying down targets and a accountability framework that I already said many Cabinets and Houses after us commit to a timely and future-proof approach to climate change. Therefore also my heartfelt compliments to Diederik Samsom and Jesse Klaver, who took the first initiative, but of course also to Rob Jetten, Sandra Beckerman, Carla Dik-Faber, Lodewijk Asscher, Dilan Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Agnes Mulder, who made it such a wide-ranging and joint initiative. From left to right, from VVD to GroenLinks, from liberal to confessional: together they have successfully joined forces. My compliments, too, to Minister Wiebes. I hardly see him, but not only in words but also in deeds, he has reached out to the opposition, which has made this unique cooperation possible, including between coalition and opposition groups. I would also like to thank him very much. This also applies, of course, to the hard workers in the background, who have really assisted the initiators and will do so in this debate. So also many thanks to Dominique Crijns, Thomas Smolders, Yorian Bordes and Michel Crevecoeur; I don't know if I pronounce that last name right, sorry. My French isn't perfect. The strength of this bill is that it creates a clear multi-annual framework in clear language. There are many ambitions in this law of seven initiators, representing 113 seats together with their parliamentary groups. I am confident that through this debate they will be able to expand further the number of Members of Parliament who support this law. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a country that started its industrialization as one of the first. This makes us, from a historical point of view, certainly per capita, one of the countries with the greatest responsibility for climate change in the world. This responsibility is sometimes obscured when, in the climate targets, you think only about the emissions that are now taking place per country per year. But those who look back in time see that the historical emissions of the Netherlands are now at a similar level to those of Indonesia, a country with more than 264 million inhabitants. That is more than half of all the citizens of the European Union, who have ejected as much as we have with our 17 million. It is for this reason that we consider it so important that the CO reduction target is further increased by 2030. We also welcome the government's efforts to create a European lead group working towards a 55% CO reduction. As is well known, this was also the aim of the original initiative law submitted by PvdA and GroenLinks together. Now, however, there is a golden opportunity to cash in a broad parliamentary majority for a major step forward, a step that will lead from at least 49% by 2030 to a 95% CO reduction by 2020. It is a step that at this unique moment in time makes it possible to really escape the tragedy of the horizon, of the spirit and of the large scale. We cannot and must not let this opportunity slip away. We are going to take each other to the next level in terms of how we are going to achieve the objectives set out in this law. The climate agreement is now being negotiated under very great pressure. Unfortunately, the three opposition parties under this initiative law are less directly involved than the coalition parties. But if that agreement is reached, there will probably still be a lot of debates in Parliament on how and when we are going to use what instruments to achieve these goals. But if we're gonna get them, we're gonna split. It is therefore very good that this Climate Law also regulates that progress is well monitored, that this is done by an independent calculator, namely the Plan Bureau for the Environment, and that this monitoring is combined with both the national climate targets and the goals to which the Netherlands is bound in the European Union. It is also useful that the Council of State should independently monitor this and also the cabinet responses. My group also considers it to be a major step forward from the point of view of acceptance that this law on the fourth Thursday of October will be a climate day in which all the results, opinions and possible proposals for adjustment by the cabinet will be made public. This is the only integral policy theme that will have its own parliamentary day next to Princess Day and Accountability Day. And rightly so, because the scale of the climate issue deserves to involve society as a whole at least one day a year in the progress we have made together. It is useful for all stakeholders to continue to provide reliable information that informs us about the progress of CO reduction, as well as about shifts in desire and burden sharing that may require new repairs or the use of more compelling instruments. GroenLinks also believes that it is important to allow the necessary control of the total transition costs to go hand in hand with the fairest possible distribution of the burden. However, it is crucial to consider cost-effectiveness from the 2050 perspective. There will be tasks that are so large in terms of size and required capacity in implementation that you will have to start before the moment when the greatest cost reduction in technology has already been achieved. I'd like to hear if the proposers agree with me. I would also like to ask if they can confirm that the Planning Office for the Environment and the Council of State will be able to implement the law next year and to present their findings in good time on Thursday 24 October 2019. I also have a question for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. This law has tried as closely as possible to align the system agreed in the European Union with the so-called integrated national energy and climate plans. Recently we received a first test from this Dutch INEK. Previously, the Court of Justice adopted a motion on this subject which asked me to include in the INEK how tax incentives in favour of fossil energy sources are phased out. I didn't find much of that in the concept. Will he pay more attention to this in the final version? That's what I'd like to hear. I'm closing up. My party sees this law as a huge milestone with this broad support. I very much hope that more groups will join us. Then we offer certainty to current stakeholders, but also to all future generations that we will do everything we can to control climate change. The proposers can be proud of their work so far. I wish the authors very much success in replying in two weeks' time to ensure that as many MPs as possible will support this law here and on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr President, you are whispering to me: is it really 40 minutes? No, it's gonna be 32 minutes. You also whisper to me: I thought you were gone by train to the climate conference in Poland. It does take a very long time. Flying would have been much faster. Anyway, I chose to take the train. Mr. Chairman. I agree with what you said and the congratulations for submitting the Climate Act. Yesterday I had a very surreal moment during the debate on aviation. While some talked about how we can facilitate the growth of aviation and how it should continue, around 3.30 p.m. the NOS reported that the Netherlands is far from achieving its CO targets. The researchers argue that in 2020, in two years' time, the Netherlands will not go beyond a 15% CO reduction. The judge considers that this should be 25% because this is the minimum to comply with the duty of care. So that gave us a really weird moment. As if two realities could be true at the same time. Like one has nothing to do with the other. Really alienating. That makes me think about what tone I should take today, during this historic debate and this historic moment. In my family I talked about it: is the right tone now the great indignation or anger about the, in my view, stubborn, attitude of the economic growthers who do not listen and participate in the 'puha Parliament', as a journalist described it this morning in the NRC? Or is it the tone of the young climate strikers? Or is it the wrong-sounding tone of: see, you're wrong? Is it the enthusiastic tone of the techno-optimists or the concerned tone of the scientists? Or is it perhaps even the tone of mourning that is felt? If you talk about where it goes and how the reports are taking advantage of each other, then you speak to people who are really in mourning, because they say goodbye to a lifestyle or a history that they no longer seem to be able to continue. Mr. Chairman. The tone of mourning. What tone is the right one? Or should the debate be toneless? Today I'm trying to get the tone of what's needed. That's based on what scientists say, translated into politics. If it is right, that is the same tone Samsom and Klaver used and the same tone that Mr Wiebes used, as the NRC wrote in her factcheck on climate policy. Science gives the lead and the goals are politics. I will try to maintain that tone today, on this historic day, the day of the treatment of the Climate Law. The fact that we're treating them is good news. Mr. Chairman. Just before the historic Paris agreement was signed in 2015 and shortly after Urgenda first won a climate case and strong words were spoken by the judge about climate policy, the Thieme/Klaver motion called on the government to come up with an effective climate law. The urgency was already known in 2015. That motion didn't make it, but three months later GroenLinks and PvdA announced a joint initiative law. Five other parties are now participating. That's the law we're discussing today. In itself, that is very good news. But in our opinion, the law is not enough to stay on course for the 1.5 ̊C scenario. The law, as it now stands, the "what" as Mr Sienot rightly said, seems to be more of a 2 ̊C scenario. The difference between these two has very relevant consequences for our nature and society. In short, our objection is that this law sets too low targets and offers too little guarantee of achieving them. In addition, we note that there have been major differences between the original legislative proposal and the final result. In our view, the search for political support, which is quite understandable, has led to the weakening of the law in several places. Mr. Chairman. These are also well-known objections, which we mentioned earlier. But we have also said that we, the Animal Party, will come up with proposals and improvements in our eyes, which will make a 1.5 ̊C scenario possible. Again, that is based on what scientists say, translated into politics and hopefully brought with the right tone. Mr President, I heard encouraging words. That is why I am going through the law with you on an article-by-article basis, which is why I asked for 32 minutes of speaking time to indicate the point by point where we have these improvements in mind. We have 17 amendments to that effect. I thought for a moment: 17 is exactly the age of Greta, one of the climate strikers that is known, but she's only fifteen, so that doesn't exactly match. Maybe they'll take him over. I just heard about the tragedy of the horizon, the tragedy of the commons, and the tragedy of the mind. But the tragedy of the horizon is long gone. That horizon is now. That is why we want to deal with it now. I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u8	So do I, Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u9	Maybe I can give a compliment first, maybe that'll help?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u10	That's always good. It does not even go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u11	Well, Mr. Chairman, the compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u12	Yes. New policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u13	What is needed first is the recognition of good. First, the compliments that are certainly in order. What's the good? That is the symbolic value of the Climate Law. It certainly has value in itself and an important function. After all, a law is not nothing. It is one of the most important instruments of change. Moreover, there seems to be a common language, which is also very important, and fortunately there is no sign of climate denial. A common language to tackle problems is essential. And more in substance: it is also very nice that we were able to read in the reply to the written part of the debate that the absolute principle of 'cost-effectiveness model' was abandoned as the sole and sacred starting point. That is all profit and that is worth a compliment to the seven petitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u14	I would like to ask the Animal Party what it will do with this law if we vote later. We saw yesterday or the day before yesterday that the Animal Party voted out the entire cabinet policy, because it was a 3°C scenario policy. Now we're talking about a big step forward: 2°C, maybe 1.5°C. Can I count on the hands of the Animal Party going up in the vote because this is really a formidable step forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u15	I think that's a good question. Firstly, it is good to note that we have tabled an amendment to the Economic Affairs budget. That amendment, which was rejected by the way, said: it is indeed 3°C. In the reply, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate clearly admitted: "That is right, it is indeed a 3°C budget. Just, we haven't put any plans in yet, so I'm not going to recommend the amendment. These changes are due to the climate agreement, perhaps the climate law. We still have to take that into account in the budget. You can then judge whether this budget is indeed a 3°C budget or a 1.5°C budget." Anyway, of course, it's about the law before it. That is also the answer to your question. We have 17 amendments here, which we think are 1.5°C. Now there is something we think and think: this is 2°C, which is not a pleasant prospect. We're gonna wait and see. I cannot yet promise that to Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u16	Well, let me put it this way. I'm hearing doubt. I think there are a lot of different parties here that show that if you put the weight behind it together, you can really take steps forward. I would like to invite the Party for Animals to take that step forward with us. It provides a framework to move gradually towards 1.5°C. I think that's exactly what these seven parties are up to. I very much invite you to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u17	I think it's a great invitation. Moreover, I do not rule out the fact that by the time we have finished dealing with the law, Mr Sienot still thinks: perhaps we should not have joined, we are moving to the right side of history and we are forming a law with other parties that goes to 1.5°C. I'm not ruling that out either, so that invitation is mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u18	I think it is encouraging that the Animal Party should also make its judgment depend on the undoubtedly great defence of the initiators. Still, I have a question. I've tried to pay attention to it in my story, too. I also understand the dilemma: how to achieve the perfect, but when can that possibly be at the expense of good? That is a trade-off that we all have to make for ourselves. Does Mr Van Raan recognise that it is possible that, with this ambitious trajectory, we can still start a transition that will have a snowball effect, which would also enable that 1.5°C scenario to be realised?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u19	It is precisely in these historical moments and important documents that you must try to be as precise as possible. If I listen to him carefully, Mr Van der Lee says: do you recognize that it is possible? I'll summarize it briefly. Of course it is. Of course it could be possible. Of course. Only we don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u20	I regret the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u22	I would like to suggest to Mr Van Raan that we think about this in the two weeks to the moment of the reaction, also because the scenarios on which we base ourselves, including the IPCC scenarios, have a great margin of uncertainty of up to 30%. So let us not just pin each other on a very precise percentage, but let us make sure that we really bring about this change. Once that change has started, the snowball continues to roll.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u23	That's actually a call to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u24	Yeah, which I like to meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr President, I shall continue after these compliments. I would like to take you through the law to explain the 17 proposals of the Party for Animals per article. That starts with Chapter 1, Article 1. The original bill contained a reference in this article to a beautiful instrument, namely the emission budget. The emission budget is the maximum amount of CO that the Netherlands may still emit to meet the 1.5°C target. Effective, detailed and scientifically sound. This emissions budget has not been negotiated; we do not see that in the final proposal. The Party for Animals proposes to reverse this choice. Why are we proposing this? The Scientific Council for Government Policy wrote that a budget approach requires the development of a temporal distribution strategy. What is now being blocked is later no longer available. A budget approach also stresses that long-term climate change is not dependent on emissions at a specific time, but on cumulative emissions over a longer period, as Mr Van der Lee also talked about. This means that it makes sense to take measures rather than later, especially if there is a long lead time for the effectiveness of the measures. A budget approach thus combines a strong long-term ambition with administrative flexibility. The instrument of an emission budget is in line with the scientific approach to the effects of greenhouse gases and provides the most detailed insight into the total volume of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. That's not just what we say, it's something the WRR also says. The choice to drop the instrument of an emission budget seems to be inconsistent with the maximum effort. And that is what this is about, because in Paris we said that we must make the maximum effort. The argument for this choice was noted in a letter of amendment, but it cannot convince the Party for Animals. This argument is as follows: on the one hand, the system of emission budgets is so detailed that it does not provide enough opportunities for the government to design the policy to be pursued as cost-effectively as possible and with broad support in society; therefore, this letter of amendment adapts the system. We sincerely do not understand that something may be too complex and that for that reason you drop it, while it is the most effective and must be started as soon as possible. In achieving as much CO reduction as possible, it seems to us that it would be very helpful to have such an instrument, and I think that the original proposers also think so, otherwise they would probably not have done so. We therefore propose to include the emission budget in the five-year climate plan. The climate plan will then also allow for the formulation of an indicative emission budget per sector, including measures that are needed. That is sensible, all the more so in order to avoid the following: we are already seeing a bit of the beginning of this and that will only get worse. The sectors that are exempt from active participation, I say that wrong; they are participating, but perhaps not enough and not enough in Paris, and the other sectors that are participating, must start arguing about who is now allowed to draw up the CO budget. Is that agriculture, meat production or aviation? Just when you have an emission budget, you make those choices very clear. For we shall continue to fly and we shall regret it, but it will probably happen that we will continue to eat meat, so we will have to continue to make these considerations. The annual climate and energy exploration and the Climate Note will then be able to assess the existence of such an emission budget. There's a budget, and that's what we all have to do. That is why the Animal Party is tabling an amendment to re-introduce the emission budget. Mr. Chairman. I'm still in Chapter 1, Article 1. This article also mentions the use of biomass as a fuel, under the definition of CO-neutral electricity production. The Party for Animals also has objections to this. We would point out that biomass, whose production competes with food crops or is at the expense of precious ecosystems, does not deliver sustainable energy. The same applies to biomass which produces excessive CO emissions throughout the production chain. That is why we will shortly try to adapt the wording of the objectives in Article 2 with two amendments concerning the share of renewable energy. Mr. Chairman. Chapter 1, Article 2. The Paris Agreement calls on countries to increase climate ambitions to a maximum every five years. However, the present law only sets the target for 2050, without the mechanism every five years to see if the ambition can be increased. Then it seems de facto possible to do nothing until 2050. Well, that really isn't the intention that speaks out of the whole law, but it's not there. So we'd like to see that. In this article, the Animal Party, based on the statements of the Paris Agreement, likes to include a strong reference to why it all runs. We have an amendment for that. This underlines even more that the greenhouse reduction targets in the law should not be isolated targets. Mr. Chairman. Article 2 (1). The greenhouse gas reduction target for 2050, as stated in the bill, is 95%. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this is not the maximum achievable, as is also the case in Paris. At least we are asking for this target to be increased to 100% by 2050. However, it is also desirable that this CO reduction be achieved as soon as possible. After all, what you don't release now, you won't have to save. So a more ambitious, but also feasible goal is 100% CO reduction in 2040. In doing so, the Netherlands actually takes its responsibility to make the most of it, because that is the promise we have made. Let us not forget that: maximum effort. If science says it's possible, then politics should actually take responsibility for doing it. That's what we agreed. That is why the amendment for 100% reduction of greenhouse gases in 2040. Article 2 (2). On the road to full CO neutrality, it is important to formulate tough and ambitious intermediate targets. The original proposal had an ambition of 55%, and in the present legislative proposal it became 49%. That's a step back. Mr Van der Lee was just talking about that. I see he's gone for a while. So back to 2030 and that's where we'll find each other. Mr Van der Lee and I will meet there to go together to 55% in 2030. So we are going to table an amendment on that too. This is an intermediate target on the road to 100% CO reduction in 2040.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u27	Before you proceed, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u28	To take away a misunderstanding: I said that was the percentage out of the original law. I have just explained in my speech why, in order to make this historic law possible, we can now also have peace with 49% by 2030. Precisely from the point of view of the fact that, if we are able to achieve this ambitious step, I am convinced that there is a snowball effect and that 55% is also on the picture, bearing in mind that this cabinet is working in Europe and that nine other Member States are moving in that direction. We are going to Poland next week, where we are trying to involve more countries. That's just for the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u29	Clear. I will continue my speech. Should this increase in these ambitions be rejected, the Party calls for an ambitious intermediate target for 2040, which provides a basis for full CO neutrality. A linear line from 55% in 2030 to 100% in 2050 goes along the 77.5%. There is actually no reason to go under there from science, but perhaps from politics. Much needs to be done in the short term. The Government Policy Scientific Council states that in the longer term climate change is not dependent on emissions at a specific time, but on cumulative emissions over a longer period of time. In short, it is important to take many measures in the short term rather than postponing them and perhaps shifting them to future generations. In the Urgenda climate case, the Court stated that, as later on the reduction of CO emissions is reduced, the carbon budget is decreasing more rapidly and that further measures need to be taken at a later stage to achieve the desired level of CO emissions, and I would like to say this in the direction of CDA to prevent a climate response. Waiting with reduction is therefore not at all cost-effective, because at the same time climate risks increase unnecessarily: floods, increases in infectious diseases, loss of biodiversity, disruption of drinking water supply, financial instability and all higher costs. The United Nations warn that even after 2030, it is no longer possible to keep global warming below 2°C. They speak of a need for unprecedented and urgent action. The Party for Animals also considers it important to implement the principle of justice, as agreed internationally in Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, namely that the rich industrial countries will take the lead in achieving as much CO reduction as possible as soon as possible. This agreement was also made with the less developed countries in the Paris 2020 agreement. They have said they will participate if the richer countries do more by 2020. But those richer countries didn't. We just didn't do it. This will result in an additional "emergency debt" for the less developed countries in order to do more. Hence our amendment for a 65% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Then there is still paragraph 2 of Article 2. There is a lot to say about that, because there really is the crux of the law. Another step is to remove the non-binding nature of the intermediate target, 2030. Compared to the original legislative proposal, the word "achieve" is suddenly added. In the letter of amendment, we read: "The objectives set out in Article 2 of the proposal are guiding. These are point targets. This means that they are aimed at achieving a certain emission at a certain point in time. The path to it is not prescribed." And: "The way in which the goals are formulated is important because they need to clarify the character of the goals. This is clearly not about external enforceable standards." The latter does raise questions. Is it possible to do that: a law without explicit externally enforceable standards? Is the climate law really a law when it is written in the letter of amendment that it is about non-enforceable standards? What's behind that? Maybe the fear of a new Urgenda case? I can imagine, because they have won all the cases so far. What is the result of this law? Mr. Chairman. In the short term, the government is virtually bound by this law, because almost every effort can be made to ensure that it is in the direction of the ultimate goal of 2050. I think Mr Van der Lee literally just said it himself. Isn't that what it's all about? But then there seems to be room for delay. In the Urgenda climate case, the Court warned that the State is violating its duty of care by failing to try to prevent dangerous climate change. That's not nothing. According to the Court, the threat of dangerous climate change is a real threat and there is a serious risk that the present generation will face the loss of life and the disruption of family life. Again, it's a serious risk, so it doesn't have to happen, but it is a real risk. And if it's a real risk, it's not the tragedy of the horizon, it's the tragedy of today. That's not from later; that's from now on. The Animal Party is of the opinion that, given the real threat of climate change and the state's laughing attitude, a non-binding effort is therefore not enough. We will put forward an amendment to remove the non-binding nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u30	I would like to put another question to Mr Van Raan to try to avoid another misunderstanding. The Party for Animals itself indicates that the polder model does not work and that the political leadership must show. This law binds the politics, binds the governments that follow, the parliaments that follow. Does Mr Van Raan recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u31	I think that my text so far and the quotes that I get from the explanatory statement show that we still have some questions about this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u32	Where the law talks about external enforceability, it is not about politics itself. It is also mentioned in the law and in the explanatory statement that it binds the government and parliament. My question is whether you acknowledge that there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u33	That is a definite yes: I acknowledge that there is. But that does not mean, of course, that that is what is needed and that citizens would not be able to invoke a law. There's our doubt. But I would like to fully admit to Mr Van der Lee that that is what it says and that the questions have been asked about it. Mr. Chairman. I am still at Chapter 1, Article 2 (2). The present legislative proposal talks about full CO-neutral electricity production in 2050. However, the original legislative proposal included another objective, namely to achieve 100% renewable energy. The Animal Party prefers targets in terms of percentages of renewable energy. Because the term CO-neutral offers a lot of space to use fossil fuels: put them underground and you're CO-neutral. That's not the point. As far as we are concerned, the transition to renewable energy sources such as wind and sun should be made as soon as possible. In the opinion of the Animal Party, establishing clear and higher ambitions in the area of renewable energy is necessary to ensure that the Netherlands accelerates the shift towards a low carbon economy. That is where all the opportunities must lie. People do worry. When we say that we should get rid of the fossil industry, they ask themselves: yes, but what about employment? As far as we are concerned, the opportunities for employment lie exclusively in a low-carbon economy. Moreover, it provides guidance for governments, citizens and businesses as investors and co-developers of policies opt for renewable energy. That is why we have prepared two amendments to that effect. Mr. Chairman. I wish I could get out of Article 2 (2). But we're on our way. The Animal Party will also table an amendment on this point aimed at reducing energy consumption by 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. This secondary objective is thus formulated as "to limit global temperature increase to a maximum of 1,5°C." That's the bet. I think we share it with each other. You don't have to generate energy that you don't use. Energy saving is therefore an effective measure to reduce CO emissions permanently. Energy saving is the basis of the energy transition. Without drastic energy savings, the Netherlands is likely to remain dependent on dirty energy. The Netherlands is heavily dependent on these fossil fuels. We actually encounter this dependence on fossil fuels in every debate and in every file. Waiting for the transition is not only detrimental to the climate, but also a threat to the Dutch financial stability. It is not for nothing that De Nederlandsche Bank proposed a levy within the cost of climate policy. We had a round table about that. You might wonder why a bank would do that. What does a bank have to do with climate? I can tell you that the underlying task of De Nederlandsche Bank is to keep the financial system stable. If De Nederlandsche Bank is going to worry about the stability of our financial system, we must also be extremely anxious. Once you fly, you sit quietly in your chair. You should not worry if the cabin crew in the case of Ryanair the frequently harassed cabin crew is concerned about the flight. The Netherlands Bank is comparable in this respect to cabin crew who are really very concerned. That is why we are tabling an amendment that will reduce energy consumption by 40% by 2030. Mr. Chairman. Paragraph 3. We have no comments on this paragraph. I think that's good news. Hatseflats! Then chapter 2 on the climate plan. We don't have any comments about a specific member, but we do, in general. The present legislative proposal describes how a climate plan should provide an overview of the measures taken, including an assessment of their impact on the financial position of households, businesses, government and employment, including training and training of workers, the development of the economy and the establishment of a fair transition. Beautiful. That's what we have to do. The Animal Party believes that the climate plan should also account for the measures not taken, i.e. the cost of doing nothing. The Animal Party therefore proposes to add a member to this article to explain in the Climate Plan the consequences of not taking action, both here and now and later, for future generations, and elsewhere, on the basis of the broad concept of prosperity. That makes perfect sense. It is also in line with what we all strive for with the concept of 'wide prosperity'. Hence the amendment. Mr. Chairman. I have no comments on Chapter 2, Article 4 (1), (2) and (3). Then Chapter 2, Article 5 (1), (2), (3) and (4). Again, I have no comments with a specific Member. The original bill assigned an important role to the independent climate committee to be set up, namely to monitor the progress of climate policy. The current legislative proposal abandons it and is deposited with the Council of State. A direction and coordination function exercised by an external authority is necessary to achieve the objectives of the law across various cabinets. The establishment of such an independent climate committee, as noted in the explanatory memorandum to the original legislative proposal, is also in line with the opinions of the Scientific Council for Government Policy and the Council of State to include an additional assessment mechanism in the legislative proposal. I'll skip the quote from the Council of State, but that warm recommendation did burn in our brains. I would like to read out the reason why we should deviate from it and not go on setting up an independent climate committee, which surprises us. "The task envisaged for this committee was to advise the Minister on the implementation of the Climate Law and its objectives. This letter of amendment lays down the post as adapted to the Advisory Section of the Council of State. This is to be found in the existing structures." I get that. "As an authoritative advisory body, the department has excellent experience advising on major societal issues. The status of the Council of State as an institute also makes the opinions very difficult in government policy making." If the Council of State then proposes an independent climate committee, and at the same time the proposers say how much importance they attach to the opinion of the Council of State, then they could also follow it. But that's not gonna happen. Of course, you could do that; you're free to do that. But I think it's kind of weird. In principle, we are not opposed to an important role for the Council of State. However, we also note that the Council of State and the WRR themselves have directed an independent climate committee. Hence the amendment to do so again. Mr. Chairman. Then chapter three. We're moving faster now, I think. That's good. In Chapter 3, Article 6, I do not have any comments with regard to a specific paragraph. This article sets out how climate and energy exploration provides an overview of greenhouse gas emissions by sector and developments and measures that have had an impact on greenhouse gas emissions. We propose to add a Member with the specific request to give an overview of the so-called emissions gap, the gap between what you emissions and what you should have emitted. Because then you can see exactly what's going on. The United Nations Environment Agency annually compares the effects of climate policy with the objectives of the UN Climate Agreement. This is therefore in line with international reporting. We therefore propose, through an amendment, that these results be translated into Dutch efforts. That is why it can be deduced whether it should be faster or whether we are well on course. Mr President, Rule 7. I do not have any comments with a specific Member, but in general. The legislative proposal proposes the adoption of an annual Climate Note containing the overall picture of the realisation of climate policy as included in the Climate Plan. That's a good idea. I also expressed our wish in Article 3 to introduce the broad concept of prosperity into the climate plan. This instrument can be used to account for the consequences for the here and now, but also for the later and elsewhere; we all know it now. Hence our amendment to add the concept of broad prosperity to the climate note. Then chapter 4 on participation, paragraph 1. This paragraph specifies that our minister will consult with all administrative bodies and other relevant parties. Maybe the attention has fallen a little bit, which I can imagine, but here we come to a thing on which we have to zoom in for a while, just as well keep our heads on. Because what is happening here? In the context of involvement and polders, the law talks with all kinds of parties covered by the concept of "relevant parties." But in the polder process of the climate agreement, we see so far that this is not necessarily a guarantee of success, to put it mildly. Not all parties have an interest in ensuring that an ambitious climate policy is implemented as successfully as possible. That's our feeling. It's not a truth; it's our feeling. In order to address this danger, we have tabled two amendments. We propose that companies whose earning model is mainly based on the production or use of fossil fuels should no longer be included in the relevant parties. That's a pretty spicy one. It means Shell, go! These are generally the strong parties, which are opposed to the NGOs, which represent the vulnerable interest. Let me give you Shell as an example, but there are other examples. In fact, we should say to Shell: we don't do that anymore; you will hear what comes out of it and you can be confident that we, as government and as participants in the climate agreement, will also take with us your interest, Shell's interest. But Shell is no longer a relevant party. The companies that base their earning model on fossil fuel are no longer relevant parties. These companies are part of the establishment, which benefits... Well, I don't have to explain our reservations about that. The same is true of proteins, whose earning model is mainly based on animal proteins. In the eyes of the Animal Party, these companies should no longer be included among the relevant parties with which our ministers are consulting. They will hear what needs to be done and within what limits they will have to operate. Animal husbandry emits more greenhouse gases worldwide than all traffic and transport combined. This makes a major contribution to climate change. Now tropical rainforest is being harvested on a large scale for the construction of soy plantations for cheap feed for the Netherlands. Irresistible! Those are the two realities that happen at the same time. We shouldn't do that anymore. Animal products, even though they are still produced so sustainably, remain a very inefficient way of protein production. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs will also address this. Each kilo of steak requires 7 kilos of grain. These are very inefficient, cost-effective protein machines. On a planet with a limited amount of raw materials and a growing world population, that is unsustainable. The Netherlands is currently the most densely stocked country in the world. These companies benefit from maintaining the current status quo. We are cooperating in the current trade agreements and trade policy. You can't do that anymore. Those companies can't talk anymore. Those are not relevant parties. I have two amendments to regulate this. Mr. Chairman. Paragraph 2, no comments. Paragraph 3, no comments. The final provisions. No comments on Articles 9 and 10. I'm gonna lock up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u34	I was touched when I heard that we were going to rule out parties where just a lot of people work and bring a lot of prosperity. By excluding them, one way or another, we're not taking them. That's how you organize your own resistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u35	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u36	I believe that we will then be far further away from achieving the shared climate goals. How does Mr Van Raan see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u37	That's a good question. Thank you. Firstly, I believe that this exclusion is already taking place, namely from future generations and parties elsewhere. The concept of exclusion is therefore already in full swing. We see the consequences for us in migratory flows every day. We do not see the importance of the vulnerable coming out well in the polder model. I dare say that we would have had a climate agreement long and wide if we, and also the parties I think are no longer relevant, had seen it. That would have been there in the time when you and I were still in diapers. But that is not the case, unfortunately. We, as politicians, are always calling on the people to trust us, because we are in favour of their interests. I would like to believe that in a number of cases; a number of cases... So we will also have to tell parties I just mentioned, parties with a model of earning based on fossil fuel or animal protein, that they can trust us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u38	I don't see it like the Animal Party. My party sees it so that you have to involve new parties very much in the transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u39	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u40	The frontrunners can transfer knowledge. In doing so, they can tempt other parties at the table to take the same cost-effective environmentally friendly steps. Isn't that a much better route?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u41	I recognize Mr Sienot in that. That's where we can find each other. The new companies that have not based their earning model on fossil or animal are indeed the companies we need. We need to encourage that. We are constantly trying to do that in all our budgets and voting on subsidies and fines. Stick, carrot! We're trying to make the distinction we haven't made so far. This is usually based on SMEs, large companies or small enterprises. We try to make a very sharp distinction: does it help to prevent a temperature increase of 1.5°C? If so, stimulate! If it does not contribute to preventing the temperature increase of 1,5°C, even more so, it contributes to 3°C, 4°C, 5°C, 6°C or 7°C, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u42	Continue, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u43	...fat stick! Mr President, concluding. When the Climate Act came out, the Animal Party said that, to the best of their knowledge, they did not consider the law sufficient. It's not enough, but it's enough. We also promised to make improvements. That's what we said. So, with due regard for all the congratulations, compliments and hard work, we believe that today we have fulfilled our promise with amendments. With the adoption of the amendments, we would create a law that lays the foundations for the proportionate.......................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u44	I was shocked earlier when Mr Van Raan spoke about the Council of State Advice and about burning in our brains. Then I thought: well, that contributes to the warming and not to the solution. I've been listening very carefully to the contribution of the Party for the Animals. Then I come to the conclusion that the Party of Animals, Mr Van Raan, only wants to take responsibility if it happens exactly as the Party of Animals wants. Does Mr Van Raan share this conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mr. Geurts, it's the Party for Animals, not the Animals. No, I don't share that. I've tried to hit a tone based on what science says about how we can translate that politically. You will also see that all our amendments contain sources. These sources do not say: that seems a good idea because it burns in the mind of the Party for Animals. No, it's a list of sources. This is what IPCC says. This is what the WRR says, and so on. In that sense, I must disappoint you on this festive day. But I do have another point for Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u46	No, it's Mr. Geurts now asking questions. Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u47	As far as I am concerned, Mr Van Raan can make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u48	No, later, if you're behind...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u49	Then I'll answer it in my term and I can think about it for a while. Mr Van Raan does not share my conclusion, but will he still support the law if the amendments of the Party for Animals are not adopted? Or didn't I understand that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u50	That last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u53	I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u54	Mr. Chairman. The CDA would like to thank the authors of the present initiative law for their efforts. It is good to see that a large part of the Chamber unites to set the framework for climate policy. Mr. Chairman. For future generations it is important to keep the world alive. At the presentation of the CDA, together with the Party for Animals, the Dutch climate scientists of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are invited to explain this. Last week's UN report on the current state of global engagement is worrying. It says that with the current global bet in 2050, the Earth is likely to warm up with more than 2 ̊C, so more than 1 ̊C warming up in 30 years. It is likely that such warming will have a major impact on the viability of the world. Mr. Chairman. It is a profound transition for the Netherlands and the rest of the world, which we have just begun. In order for the transition to succeed, it is very important that we do this together with our residents, keep costs low and also remain a competitive economy. We must prevent the costs from being borne by residents who can't come along and who have a small wallet. We must prevent companies from moving jobs across borders. For this reason, the CDA prefers international and European cooperation and avoid major deviations from European policy. If the European objective is to be lower, we must also be able to adjust our own objectives. For this reason, the CDA asks the Minister about the efforts to promote a higher European CO target by 2030. Mr. Chairman. To achieve the goals of the Climate Act, a huge effort is needed from everyone, from residents who, for example, are going to isolate a gap wall, from entrepreneurs who come up with new techniques or who install solar panels, from municipalities and provinces who work together with the residents on a heat plan. The CDA calls on all these parties to contribute and work together on climate policy. Can the initiators reflect on the enormous commitment that is demanded from everyone? One more question for the Minister. The CDA considers it important that the Dutch government takes account of the impact on our border regions in its economic and fiscal policies. Will the Minister apply the cross-border impact assessment tool in the implementation of this initiative proposal? In conclusion, I would like to endorse the positive comments made towards the authors by Mr Sienot and the words of thanks to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u55	I have two questions for Mr Geurts. The first question: is this initiative law, which I assume will be supported by the CDA, fully in line with the CDA's ideal or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u56	There's a very broad representation from the House of Representatives. This has brought together what is now contained in the own-initiative proposal. This includes a member of my group as one of the initiators. So it is fair to assume that we have talked about it well before one of our group members joins us and thereby negotiates on the outcome. So we are going to support this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u57	Then the real question. Suppose the CDA could change one thing. What would that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u58	You should have asked that question yesterday, because I might have known better. What is very important to the CDA is that we take our society into account, that it is also portable, feasible and affordable, if you would like to hear a wish that I personally have. That's how everyone has their wishes. If you cannot agree with each other, you will not come to a legislative proposal that lays down a number of substantive frameworks. This could have been one of my wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u59	Then I'm going to see Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u60	If "portable, feasible and affordable" would have been one of the wishes, I have the following question. Would Mr Geurts then be prepared to move away from the idea that there is a Fortuyn revolution at once, because the energy transition may not be affordable? This after the CDA for decades has opened all the buttons of the economy for warming up, has maintained the declining energy tax system, making companies pay relatively up to 60 times less for energy than families, what Mr Buma is actually doing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u61	But what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u62	The question is whether Mr Geurts will at last be aware that he himself is the firefighter fighting the fire with petrol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u63	There are so many assumptions in this contribution that I can double my speaking time three more times by disabling them all. I'm not gonna do that. I disagree with Mr Van Raan's assumptions. I disagree with Mr Van Raan's conclusion. If Mr Van Raan could just take a look outside and think about what the people would think of the contribution he has just made. Perhaps Mr. Van Raan, as a representative of the people, should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u64	Finally, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u65	I notice a great rift in relation to some sounds within the CDA that are really green and progressive and that this really is completely outdated and demonstrably incorrect...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u66	You started off so nicely with compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u67	Certainly, but that does not apply to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u68	I think it is very special that Mr Van Raan is trying to create a contradiction. I think Mr Van Raan did not listen at all to the contribution I made, and had already reached a final conclusion this morning when he got out of bed and just deposited here, without having a reasonable debate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u69	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SP would like to join the congratulations given to the seven applicants and the thanks to the support. I would like to specifically appoint all the political party staff, who are not all there but who have thought, counted and talked with behind the scenes and who do not always receive the praise they deserve. The political differences are large in trade union K and that makes it all the more pleasing that, despite these contradictions with so many parties, an initiative could be taken. It is very good that we have a climate law that makes it clear where we should go: by 2050 we produce, transport and live CO-neutrally. The fact that this is now marked by this law provides certainty for the long term, which is also indispensable to achieving that goal. After all, we are talking about huge investments in time, in difficulty and in money to achieve this. The fact that we can't wait for this to happen seems to be over and over again. Recently, a report from the IPCC alerted about the huge differences between 1.5 ̊C warming or 2 ̊C warming. That has been referred to before. Or see last week's UN report, which states that the efforts not to get past that 1.5 ̊C to 2 ̊C are likely to have to be three to five times greater than was agreed worldwide. We have to hurry. It is also sad that, despite all the signals that have been there for a long time that it is going in the wrong direction, it has been the Chamber that has had to take the initiative. It is good that we are doing it, absolutely, but let us also be honest and say that we are standing here because the governments have so far failed to do so. After all, the big question is: how are we going to do that, CO-neutral in a few decades? Unfortunately, this law is not going to magically make this happen. The Climate Act provides the necessary framework and clarity to enable these steps to be taken. There will also be differences of opinion between the proposers on the final road there. The cabinet aims to shape this with the climate agreement, an agreement that the SP is deeply concerned about. Management from the cabinet seems to be lacking, and in the negotiating tables the industry seems to be the main player and the signals are not good at the moment. Our main concern is that too little is going to happen too late and that ultimately it will be households who pay the bill. But let today's Climate Act do what he promises: clear towards 2050. By 2030, we will have to be halfway. The Five-Year Climate Plan sets out the direction and measures needed. And the SP would like to stress that this should always take into account the impact on households, the impact on income and the impact on employment, so that action can be taken on a timely basis where and when necessary. Every year we keep our finger on the pulse of climate and energy exploration in the climate note, especially in that respect. Mr President, today is indeed a unique moment when the Chamber has taken the initiative to highlight clear targets with the Climate Act. Now it is up to the government to pick up the glove and come up with a solution that does justice to these goals. Of course, we in the Chamber will be happy to help the government with that. There must be a policy that takes account of where it belongs, of the polluting industry, of a social climate policy that benefits everyone and leaves no one behind in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now turn to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by complimenting the authors of the Climate Act on their initiative. The use of the Court's privilege to legislate itself is increasing again. That is special and an initiative law is a special thing anyway, especially in the case of this climate law. During the previous parliamentary term, this was initiated as an initiative by Mr Klaver and Mr Samsom and now an initiative law has been tabled on behalf of seven members of seven different political groups. It's a piece of music, you might say. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to express my appreciation towards the cabinet. It is good to see that the government's intention of converting the agreements on climate and energy into a climate law gives the Chamber plenty of room for manoeuvre in order to implement them itself. The door to the Trêveszaal, which was outlined in the Declaration of Government, which is open to the public, appears to be completely open. I wonder if the proposers feel the same way. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the law myself. The targets are clear: a target of 49% greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2030 compared to 1990, a target of 95% by 2050 and full CO-neutral electricity production by 2050. These targets are, of course, in line with the Paris climate agreement. These targets are seen by the VVD as an assignment to the government. As the applicants rightly state, these objectives do not constitute an obligation which can be enforced in court by way of an oral procedure. It is up to the Cabinet to implement the targets set in this law and it is up to Parliament to monitor them. Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, however, there are a number of important principles which I would like to point out to the authors and also to the Minister. The VVD attaches great importance to cost efficiency. That must be a guiding principle. We shouldn't daydream about the future. We must make choices here and now that are manageable and affordable. Where the Council of State recommended that cost-efficiency as a material standard be incorporated into the law, the proposers argue that they want to give the government as much room as possible in the choices to be made for the climate plan. Offering this space is to be appreciated. However, I think it is important for the authors here to state explicitly that they too see cost efficiency as a very important starting point. I would like to ask the Minister if he can confirm once again that cost efficiency is a guiding principle for this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, all measures resulting from this law should be acceptable and affordable. That therefore requires careful consideration. That therefore requires cost-efficiency. This also requires looking at the overall picture when it comes to income effects. It is good to see that the law is expressing its views on this too. The Climate Act does not allow for income policy through the energy bill. Decision-making on income effects is carried out through the regular fiscal system. Of course, cost efficiency can contribute to keeping the costs of the coming transition as low as possible, but of course it cannot be excluded that it has an impact on disposable income. That is precisely why it is good not to focus on income effects per theme, but to look at the bigger picture. Mr. Chairman. With this initiative law, we are converting the Paris climate agreement into national legislation in the Netherlands. In a number of countries, including the United Kingdom since 2008, climate laws have already been or are under way. But how is it filled in in in all these other countries? Can the proposers give an idea of the impact of Paris on other, particularly European countries? I ask that, because it is important and remains that there is a level playing field. Paris binds us all, but how does it translate into the different national parliaments? Is there similar legislation? I ask the Minister how he sees the government agreement's intention to achieve a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030. Does he see room for a leading group of European countries that are in line with this target? What does this mean for the level playing field? Will the translation of the targets into concrete measures be completed in a way that does not harm our competitiveness? What is the Minister's commitment to Poland next week? That brings me to the opportunities this law offers. Setting targets here and now and laying down legislation on what we want to achieve together for a longer period of time provide stability and security. Stability and security provide trust, confidence for investors, confidence for business. Trust again offers a favourable environment for innovation. The Netherlands has been fighting against the water for centuries. In a sense, this constant struggle has also ensured stability, security and confidence. We've known for centuries that we get wet feet if we don't do something about the water. This certainty has led to Netherlands, Dutch innovations and Dutch companies being among the top of the world when it comes to waterman agent. With stability, security and trust, we are now creating the opportunity to become world leaders once again in the transition that we are now facing in the climate and energy issues. This concerns new renewable energy, research and development investments by companies in the Netherlands, but also new investments and innovations from abroad, thanks to good acquisition and a good location climate. The Climate Act ensures that stability and security. The government fills it in with manageable and affordable measures as well as with a good and targeted acquisition policy and locational environment. Does the Minister share the fact that there is a huge opportunity here, that there are also economic opportunities for the Netherlands here? Do the proposers share the fact that stability and security are the basic conditions for success and that the five-yearly climate plan and the bi-annual evaluation should not be political toys to achieve the long-term targets within just a few periods, but that the five-year climate plan should ensure continuity and ensure continuity of trust and acceptance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u73	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mr Kops, who took the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you, Mr President. The PVV does not support the congratulations of the previous parties. The differences between the parties here in box K have never been so great. Even in the coalition, it rattles on all sides. But if there's anything that all these parties in trade-K agree on, it's something like a climate law. A Climate Act with which these parties are going to ruin the Netherlands. A Climate Act that will put households in deep financial misery. They all think this is a good idea in Box K. It's just what you're proud of. All of them should be deeply ashamed of the enormous tragedy they are putting the country with. Climate law, climate policy, climate agreement, energy transition, solar panels, heat pumps, electric cars, off the gas, you hear no different nowadays. If you watch TV, you'll be thrown to death with energy savings ads because this would be good for the climate. If you listen to the radio, you're led to believe that most of all you have to go electric because diesel cars would destroy the world. CO reduction, that's the code word right now, the magic word. Although, it just doesn't work out that way yet. Only yesterday it was announced that in 2020 the Netherlands will have no more than 15% less emissions, while the government itself thought it would be 23%. That's quite a difference. So many, many billions are spent on it, while the goals themselves are not even met. What amateurism! Expensive amateurism, that's for sure. This is therefore the result of the Energy Agreement of 2013. The cost is about 100 billion and the result is sad. And the citizens pay for it, because they end up taking the fall for it. Instead of embarrassing the eyes out of the head, these seven parties sharpen the CO reduction targets. That is what the Climate Act is about: 49% reduction in 2030 and even 95% reduction in 2050. What exactly is the remaining 5% for? Is that perhaps to breathe, because the initiators are aware that humans also emit CO2 with breathing? Can these parties still do that? Mr. Chairman. For decades the polar bear has been the symbol of hysterical environmental and climate clubs. For decades, we have been led to believe that we must do something about climate change, because the polar bear will die otherwise. For decades, people have been made to feel guilty and scared with a doomsday. In reality, the polar bear is doing very well. That was the conclusion of Canadian zoologist Susan Crockford two weeks ago. The number of polar bears is stable and even increasing. And look, Mr. President, now we've got the core of the whole climate debate. Actually, it's not a discussion anymore. Scaring, that's it. But that's all it took. Just stick with a little scary stuff, 'cause we're gonna pierce through that. But what these seven parties are doing is laying down their climate hysteria, their CO-obsession in legislation. And then nobody gets out of it. That is very serious, Mr President. That's worrying. Don't underestimate the consequences. If citizens do not want to participate, because they think it is all nonsense, citizens do not want to make their homes so-called climate-neutral for many tens of thousands of euros: bad luck, they must. The government will make sure of that. Again, that is serious, because once laid down in the law, CO reduction can be enforced. Right now, judges are interfering. In 2015, an orphaned environmental club called Urgenda filed a lawsuit against the State. When you do that, of course, you're just not right in the head, but aside from that. The worse is that the Court of Urgenda has still been right: the state must do even more against CO emissions. Minister Wiebes has indicated that he will not leave and will go to the Supreme Court. I quote: 'Because we want to know, at most, whether a judge can sit on the seat of politics to this extent. A matter of principle." It is right that the State should go to the Supreme Court, because climate policy is a political policy, and especially judges should not interfere with it. But that this is nothing more than a matter of principle for the Minister is, of course, weak, because what are the Minister's principles worth? Not much, because last week it was announced that 500 million of windfalls are being set aside for additional climate policy, for even more climate policy. Moreover, if the Minister really believes that judges should not interfere with climate policy, why is he in favour of something like a climate law? Once the reduction targets are part of the law, future Cabinets, who do not agree with this and do not want to abide by it, can be brought to justice. The consequences and costs will, of course, be for the citizens. That is not a matter of principle, it is a great tragedy. That is why the Minister is simply going to implement that ruling, even if it is because the climate law, which he himself is a big fan of, goes far beyond that. Mr. Chairman. Innumerable times, the PVV has come to the conclusion: climate policy is wasted money. Then why the hell do you keep doing that? Why the hell continue wasting hundreds of billions? Why the hell would you have a climate bill? But still, the climate worm has to stay alive. For example, there is currently a climate summit in Katowice in Poland. Prime Minister Rutte was there last Monday. Up and down with the temporary government plane, a rented Boeing 737 Business Jet. Next week, the Minister and his fellow rulers will also go to the climate summit and, yes, they will all take the plane. What does the Minister himself think of that? Isn't it a bit much air traffic for a cabinet that has gone obsessively into the fight against CO? Such hypocrisy. Meanwhile, citizens are being saddled with expensive, priceless climate measures. I'd say be a man and practice what you preach, my dear Minister. While the government wants 49% reduction in 2030, Prime Minister Rutte himself has advocated 55% at the climate summit. Well, what ambition. The question is: is this ambition, which is 55%, perhaps purely for the stage, a sort of application from the Prime Minister to a job in Brussels, where adherence to climate ideology is a pre? Or is it meant to be serious? If so, how the hell is the Netherlands going to do that? And how many more billions is that going to cost? That's crazy. Meanwhile, the boys and girls of the IPCC, that terrible UN climate club, are getting hysterical. I quote: 'Rapid and far-reaching measures must be taken'. In doing so, according to the IPCC, countries should take care to make their economic interests subordinate. Look, here comes the climate monkey from the sleeve. Climate policy makes us poor and it almost seems to be the intention. Climate law, climate agreement, energy transition, climate policy; it's all going to cost an incredible amount, hundreds of billions. In every debate, over and over again, the PVV map this out. Every time there's a minister playing the game, playing downplay. Well, what it's all going to cost, we don't know exactly yet. We'll have to wait and see. It stays affordable, it stays for everyone to take. Really, really. Don't worry, the Minister said. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u75	I've been listening for a while. If I may, Madam President, I would first like to clarify one small point. Of course, we do not want to go to 0% CO emissions. We're going down to a percentage of 1990 levels, so people can keep breathing freely. Let's not spoil this party because people think they can't breathe anymore. That's possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u76	You never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u77	So that's just cleared up. Here's what I'm gonna do. What Mr Kops of the PVV is doing is just looking away. The IPCC studies thousands and thousands of scientific reports and a very disturbing picture emerges from them. The scientists who like to quote the PVV are also simply included.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u78	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u79	My whole point is: why does the PVV just scare everyone instead of helping to take the concerns that people have about the climate change they see around them seriously? Of the last 18 years, 17 years were the warmest ever. Something's going on and the PVV is looking away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u80	If Mr Sienot had listened clearly, I said that climate hysterics scare people in the country. If people in the country are worried about something, it is the cost of climate policy, Mr. Sienot, and you do nothing about it. In fact, you are the cause of that. I'm about to say a lot about it. The costs are running out of steam. People can't and won't pay for it. And then there's going to be something like a terrible climate law that people aren't waiting for. Oh, come on. People can't and won't pay for it. Mr Sienot referred to the IPCC. Yeah, all reports. But if you had read it correctly: the IPCC also talks about scenarios and admits that there are no predictions, no expectations. I quote: "There is limited evidence that changes of extreme weather come from changing climates." This is stated in the IPCC 2013 report AR5 WGI, chapter 2.6, page 219. If you had studied all this well, you would have known for yourself that there are a lot of uncertainties that even the climate hysterics of something like the IPCC recognise. Then the PVV says very clearly: we should not do this, stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u81	Once again, the PVV keeps looking away. I note that there is once again selective shopping in extensive scientific reports and there again the summaries of the IPCC. I also note that we are not getting anywhere with this and that we are going to flood the Netherlands in this way. That wouldn't be so bad if it just kept looking away, but it's also denying opportunities. We see that solar energy has become almost 90% cheaper since 2008, and that line continues. We can make people live cheaper and more comfortable. I would like to ask Mr Kops of the PVV: can you help those people to take advantage of those opportunities to live more comfortably?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u82	What we want is lower burdens. It's as simple as that. But if you see what making a house climate-neutral is going to cost... Citizens need to get to the heat pump. Yesterday or today, there was an article in the newspaper showing that such a heat pump is not going to work for older houses at all. But people like Mr. Sienot do. However, it is going to cost so much money that people do not want it. Mr Sienot came back to the IPCC. I would like to quote a former IPCC scientist, Mr Tol. It has said that there is mass hysteria and that Mr Sienot is now walking away; that is sensitive, and that the idea that our grandchildren are at risk because the world is warming up is a complete mesjogge. There is no reason to believe that climate change is so terrible; the climate has little impact on well-being and prosperity. No, indeed, but climate policy has a major impact on households' wallets. Next year, the energy bill will go up by €150 under the name of the climate. At least, as has been shown in previous debates; the day before yesterday, calculations of gaslicht.com show that the bill goes up by €360. That's all due to climate policy, Mr. Sienot, and you're fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u83	I would like to save Mr Kops from a scientific error from the Acts and parliamentary history. In his contribution, he just claimed that there are people who say that in Greenland there are fewer polar bears due to climate change. But that's not the point; the polar bear population is fine there. That also makes sense, because there is more and more water instead of ice, so polar bears can more easily fish out of the water with their legs. What matters is that it has been scientifically demonstrated that in the last three decades the ice in Greenland melts faster than in the 350 years before it has been so long we measure it now. It has been shown that this speed cannot be explained by natural variability. When the amount of ice in Greenland melts, it has a greater influence on sea level than all the ice in Antarctica and all the glaciers in the world. This is demonstrated by Professor Van den Broeke, professor of polar meteorology at Utrecht University...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u84	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u85	And I don't have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u86	No question, of course, that's easy. But I do have a reaction to Mr Bruins. It is the World Nature Fund that has for decades led the citizens to believe that the polar bear would die out. On the website of the Wereld Natuur Fonds, students and children can download ready-made lectures on this subject. So that's pure scaremongering. As the sea level rises, forecasts show that the rise may be half a metre in the next century. The Netherlands can do this very well. We've been doing that for centuries. For centuries, we have been masters in dealing with water, even in periods when there was no CO emissions at all in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u87	It is good to hear that Mr Kops bases his knowledge on the films of interest organisations and not on science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr Kops claims that we can handle the rise in water. But how does Mr Kops explain that the waterboards recommend that we do something about the climate issue? How else do you explain that, despite the fact that he may be able to track down a single scientist who thinks otherwise, there is scientific consensus in 190 countries on the need to tackle the climate issue and reduce CO reduction by the percentages laid down in this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u89	That is because the waterboards are full of PvdA people, such as Mr Moorlag, who do nothing but implement government policy. That's the cause, that's part of the climate delusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u90	That is not a very substantive answer. I must say, however, that Mr Kops is very persistent. He reminds me a lot of that old man in my village, who for years still sprayed DDT over the raspberries with a big shot, and then said to his children: boys, now they are suitable for consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u91	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u92	From climate policy to raspberries, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u93	I'm gonna try another way. The Party for Freedom represents a substantial number of Dutch. You are looking, like me, at polls showing that more than half of your constituents are concerned about climate change. What is Mr Kops' message to his own people? That he only does what if it's free? Is that the story of the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u94	No, we're very worried about the costs. If you listen carefully to our supporters, it is nice that Mr Van der Lee of GroenLinks knows that so well, you will hear that people simply cannot afford it, Mr Van der Lee. People don't want it, it's that simple. The costs are increasing enormously and by parties like GroenLinks they have to make their homes more sustainable, they have to go to the heat pump, to solar panels and you name it all. People have to pay for that and they just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u95	I note that the PVV is the ultimate freerider: social issues that cause much damage, now and much more in the future, are passed on to others. That's incredibly easy-going and nobody's buying anything for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u96	So I was talking about the Minister, who perseveres every time that it has to remain affordable. It's just not true. But yes, if you think it can't be worse, it can. Because VVD, CDA, ChristenUnie, D66, Party of Labour, SP and GroenLinks are there they really are making the crown. The Council of State criticises these parties, the initiators of the Climate Act, for not understanding the overall cost of climate objectives. This climate law will inevitably cost a lot of money and is not cost-effective, according to the Council of State. That's a big deal. But what do you think? Do you think these parties are doing something about that criticism? No, nothing at all. The costs do not matter, according to these parties, according to their reaction. They want the government to "keep the freedom to take measures which it considers most appropriate. Cost-effectiveness as a material standard clashes with this." In other words, climate policy, just do it all. That it's going to cost many billions, hundreds of billions, they don't deny, they just don't care. Those parties there, that people who don't want and can pay for all the climate crazy, they don't even care. The energy bill, which I was talking about, will rise by €150 next year. The Minister also recognised this in previous debates. But gaslicht.com has calculated that the energy bill goes up by as much as €360. Is that right? Has that amount been included in the so-called total purchasing power picture to which the Minister and the coalition parties constantly refer? I'd like a response to that point. Energy, a basic requirement, is becoming an unaffordable luxury product for more and more households. One million households already live in energy poverty. In a country like the Netherlands, that's just reality. But those seven parties there don't give a shit. Everyone needs to get on the electric car. For this, billions of grants must be provided. And subsidies may sound attractive to some, but know that there is no free money. Because who is going to make these billions of grants? The common man and woman, of course. The excise duty on petrol and diesel goes up and the road tax increases. So the regular driver can start paying. But again, those seven parties there don't care at all. Households need to get rid of the gas. Households must be connected to the heat pump. Households must be on the solar panels. Making all homes climate neutral costs EUR 235 billion with ease. That is on average €30,000 per house. For an average social rental, this costs even more than €50,000. Those aren't sums anymore, are they? But again, those seven parties there don't give a shit. And if households don't have the money to pay for all of this, then they just take out a loan, a so-called building-related loan, a loan that rests on the house. Mind you, a mortgage can't get many house buyers for a long time, but an extra loan for sustainability is apparently no problem at all. It's really the world upside down. And isn't a loan enough? No problem, municipalities and provinces know something about that. Because if people have no money but have their own home, they can transfer the bare property of the land to the municipality in exchange for a large bag of money for sustainability. Of course it sounds inventive, but know: who owns the land, practically also owns the house. In this way, homeowners are almost literally pulled away from the ground under their feet. It's unheard of. Under the term "climate" everything is apparently permissible. In summary. One, the UN climate fetishists say that we must subordinate our economic interests to climate policy. Two, crazy climate measures are being taken that will indeed plunge households deeply into the financial misery. And three, these parties are all fine with it. In fact, the cost doesn't interest them at all. It's just being pushed down people's throats. Look, there they are, all of them, the seven parties: what a crazy mess. Seven parties have cycled a Climate Act in the back rooms. In fact, they already have a majority, no matter how absurd it all is. We at the PVV are really holding our hearts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u97	I do the same, holding my heart when I hear this language from Mr Kops of the PVV. But I have a question for him. Soon I noticed at the Party for Animals that you are irrelevant if you are a farmer. See Amendment No 1 to the motion for a resolution (Doc. 28. I hear in the contribution of the PVV that you are apparently irrelevant if you are worried about the drought damage in the Netherlands. However, the PVV recently supported a motion from me with several colleagues to enable the fight against water pollution and other studies from the Delta Fund. Where does the PVV want to go? Is it really the word "climate" the PVV is going to use?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u98	If Mr Geurts had listened more carefully, he would have heard that I mentioned this earlier in an interruption of I do not remember who. Water pollution, who's for that? Who the hell is for water pollution? If that is the case, we must, of course, do something about it. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u99	That's a very nice answer. Then I just have to say that the PVV Group will never support a motion if you use the word 'climate' in it, but if you just mention what happens in practice, they will see it at once. Then I really do not understand the contribution of the PVV group of just now. If they use such big words, are they just meant to be on the front page of a national newspaper? Or is it really about the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u100	What parties like Mr Geurts do is try to influence the climate. Anyone who thinks that really suffers from delusions of grandeur. It's as simple as that. But man has done nothing but adapt to changing circumstances for hundreds, thousands of years. We as Dutch people have been doing this for hundreds of years: we adapt to the water. It's as simple as that. But that is quite different from the Climate Law that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u101	A very short question. Is Mr Kops a democrat?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yes, of course. I can also tell Mr Moorlag that we are the second party to the Netherlands. A lot of people voted for us. We are representatives of the people and we are proud to be here on behalf of these people. I don't know if that's the answer he wants to hear, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u103	Where do you want to go, Mr. Moorlag?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u104	I would like to give Mr Kops his views, and I would like him to take the floor on this climate bill, but I am asking this question because it really bothers me that he is questioning the legitimacy of the initiators. There's a two-thirds majority working on it and he disqualified it. That is not a sign of a democratic instinct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u105	If I have said that, then my second question is to Mr Moorlag. I didn't talk about democratic legitimacy. But the PVV does have an opinion on the seven parties sitting there and on their Climate Law. The fact is, they've been betting on that in the back room. The minister himself was also involved. That's just a fact. Of course they are free to do so but, again, the PVV has an opinion on it. I think I made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thank you, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u108	I now turn to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr. Chairman. I would nevertheless like to join with the compliments and appreciation that many others have already expressed to the MPs in trade union K and all the people who have contributed to this initiative law. So here's the deal. I would also add Mr Samsom, who, together with Mr Klaver, was at the basis of the law. In addition to the fact that he kept the Netherlands manageable, he also took the initiative. I hope those compliments will be passed on to him. Despite the fact that I do not always agree with him in substance, I am very grateful to Mr Samsom. Mr. Chairman. The planned renovation of the Binnenhof is a mega operation. I'm sure you'll agree with me because you're gonna sit up for it. Already a few years of preparation, a year of work on the Apenrots and six years of actual renovation. All in all, that's ten years, if we're not delayed. Suppose, at the beginning, the architect had told the contractor and the National Real Estate Company that it would be technically possible to have completely rebuilt this complex in five years' time, even without connection to the gas grid. That's expensive, but it has to be done. And the monumental status? Well, what's hardest has to weigh the hardest. I do not think anyone would blindly sign for this: without clarity about actual costs and the distribution of risks, without the guarantee that the parliamentary company can continue and without any certainty about the feasibility of the five-year period. Because you know that the optimism of an architect behind the drawing table is boundless, but that the execution........ is usually more rigid than what you design at the drawing table. Now you think, Chairman: what does this have to do with the Climate Act? Well, with the current climate law, I get a little bit of the same feeling. To 49% less CO in 2030 and 95% less CO in 2050 is really a huge challenge. 3 million terraced houses must be isolated and provided with sustainable electricity and heat, 10 million petrol and diesel cars can no longer drive like this and 1,300 petajoule energy consumption must be converted by factories. And that in 30 years. For the transformation of the Binnenhof, at most a square kilometer, we need ten years. In less than 15 years a transformation of half the Netherlands and in 30 years a transformation of the whole of the Netherlands, that becomes really exciting. Mr Sienot spoke earlier about viewers and blind people. I wouldn't want to be assigned to either, so I'm just gonna give myself the role of a cross-viewer. That's what I'm gonna do. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is convinced that we need to work together. The sustainability of our energy supply, our industry and agriculture is a necessary task. I'm not the kind of person who thinks that we can all turn on the earth's thermostat for a while and that it'll be all right. No, I do think that, with all the questions we may have, we should take the climate issue seriously as a precaution. If we shrug our shoulders and just keep on firing and we turn out to be wrong, then not only the Netherlands but also countries such as Bangladesh will be the victims. We as SGP believe that we should not let that happen. There's more than climate. We are now spending billions on imports of fossil fuels from shady countries. We need to get rid of that. Our Groningers too, Mrs Beckerman, will nod even harder now, we must not leave in the cold. In the meantime, it would broaden the basis for the Climate Act if we included these arguments. So as far as we're concerned, let's stick our hands out of each other's sleeves, so that we no longer stick to the infusion of foreign fossil fuels. Mr. Chairman. Will the Climate Act contribute to this? Yes and no. Yes, because the law allows for decisive policies and democratic control of them. I refer to the five-yearly climate note and the annual reconnaissance and cabinet note. In the past year, I have seen too often that the ball is passed on to the climate tables in the sense of: companies and environmental organisations, you say so. This while Jan with the cap isn't sitting at the table. As far as we are concerned, the direction must go back to where it belongs: in politics. Major measures deserve democratic control. The handles that the law gives can help with that. So yes, these parts of the Climate Act deserve our full support. However, Mr President, I would like to table an amendment to ensure that the climate plan also includes the commitment to innovation and the impact of policies on the affordability and reliability of energy supply, as well as the role of provinces, municipalities and water authorities. They will really play a very important role. We need to enable them to live up to that role as well. I will also table an amendment to include aviation in the climate plan. The bill has now been drafted in such a way that aircraft can stay out of harm's way. But it cannot be that we are asking for heavy sacrifices from Jan Modaal, while cheap but environmentally damaging air travel can continue. I would very much like to hear the authors' views on these amendments. Mr. Chairman. For the SGP, the really hot issue is in the article with the 2030 and 2050 targets. That's Article 2. And comfort you: I'm not gonna talk about that for 32 minutes. But I'd like to bring it up. I think it is very good that a dot is placed on the horizon. We need to reduce the use of fossil fuels. However, Article 2 makes it appear that these objectives are within reach. And we don't think they are yet. The electrification of buildings, factories and cars makes us increasingly dependent on electricity. At the same time, wind farms and solar panels barely supply electricity a few weeks a year. We already have a shortage of technical personnel to shape this whole transition. What is it going to mean for society's support if successive goals may always have to be met at a great price? It's not stimulating, it's frustrating. I hear the proposers say: ho, that is not our intention. These objectives are targets; a political mission to the government; they cannot be legally enforced through the courts. But, given the current situation, I find that naive. We therefore pointed out in the written round the current Urgenda case, whereby the judge instructed the government to reduce CO emissions by 25% by 2020. Minister Wiebes is already running away, because he thinks: I will never get it done! Anyway, Mr. Chairman. What does the judge care to do the same with the objectives in the present bill? Then where is the room for a smart political balance with a heart for the inhabitants of the Netherlands, with a view to feasibility and affordability and with a sense of the European playing field? I don't want the government to be brought to justice every five years and the judge to decide if there's anything else to go on top of. That's gotta happen here. Here in parliament. The bill stipulates that our ministers are responsible for achieving the climate targets set. Does this sufficiently reflect the fact that the extent to which targets can be achieved nationally depends on European policy development? I refer, for example, to the European CO-emission trading system. If Poland sits back, because we run faster than the rest, then we do something wrong. Mr. Chairman. I therefore propose to amend Article 2 by setting the target for 2050 in such a way that the feasibility, affordability and reliability of energy supply can be taken into account, and by including possible medium-term targets not in the law but in the climate plan. That way, you can make a decent, integral assessment. Finally, Mr President. Sustainability, yes. Ambition, yes, but also like realism! Again, not skepticism, not alarmism, but realism. That's what I like to see in the Climate Act. Because then we can move forward together without five-yearly struts, without a frustrated society and with a long nose to Putin and Mohammad bin Salman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u110	The first question I would also like to put to Mr Stoffer is whether the SGP Group will support this initiative legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr Geurts has, of course, heard my contribution. He's also noticed that I don't look black, I don't look away, I look cross-eyed. I have mentioned a number of substantive items which we have difficulty with, in particular the medium-term objectives. So depending on the reaction from box K, we'll make a trade-off. So I'm not saying no now, but I'm not saying yes either. That really depends on how the proposals we have put forward are dealt with in Box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u112	In the dialect you can say "joa, joa" and that always means no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u113	From what region?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u114	We are both from the Veluwe region. In the Achterhoek they can do this much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u115	Yeah, but I just did a game. I can speak better dialect than Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u116	Well, then we'll remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u117	I'll admit that, unless I get emotional. Then we can see what happens again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u118	That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u119	No, you don't have to. Look, with this initiative proposal, one thing is very clear, namely that achieving the goals is the only substantive criterion of the legislative proposal. What I hear the SGP Group doing in the first amendment is adding all kinds of substantive criteria. As positive as I think it is, there will be many more, and then you will lose the support of these seven parties. Let me give that to the SGP Group. There is also hope, because together with Mr Stoffer, Mr Sienot and more colleagues I have brought an amendment to the Water Act through the Chamber. This makes it possible for waterboards to carry out their tasks, as Mr Stoffer just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u120	It's actually more of a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u121	It was indeed a remark, not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u122	Now I want to make a point as Achterhoeker, but not in the dialect. I have a question about the amendment, also in a slightly broader context. This law also provides for us to look at what is happening in Europe. That's where hard targets are agreed. The Netherlands has committed itself to this. That is also one of the basis points under the Urgendavonnis. It's not national legislation. We're going to fill it out nationally now. The SGP says that we should not be clear about the objective, while it is long overdue at European level. That's untransparent to your own citizens, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u123	I do not know whether Mr Van der Lee is referring to the 2030 targets or 2050 targets. That target is very good. That's what I've been trying to tell you. For us, the issues still lie before us as to whether it is affordable and reliable. That's something you have to consider all the time. Also while the trajectory is running, you have to see if it's true. For us the affordability and reliability are therefore very important, hence the addition towards 2050. When we talk about 2030, the question is whether we should include it in this. Isn't it much better to include it in the climate plan? Because then you can adjust that every five years, so that we don't have the government in court in a minute. I will not stand there, certainly as the situation is at present, but I will not allow our minister or future ministers to do so either. That Urgenda situation that's going on right now is, as far as we're concerned, really something you need to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u124	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Geleijne on behalf of 50PLUS. It's Mr. Geleine's maiden speech. In my opinion, you have been standing here many times, yet this appears to be your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u125	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is my honour to have my maiden speech just today on behalf of the voters who in 2017 entrusted their vote to 50PLUS on an initiative law of no less than seven parties and on a very important subject that affects everyone. As far as I am concerned, this climate law is a wonderful example of how our Parliament can work; you said it, Mr President. It started with two parties but in the end no less than seven parties join forces to achieve a common goal. We should have that on more topics. My colleague Van Rooijen sometimes dreams of having seven parties behind his own initiative law on the interest rate. There's still time, I'll tell the other parties. It could also have been eight parties to this Climate Act, as 50PLUS supports this initiative law. I'm sure the proposers have their reasons, but we're a little disappointed that we haven't been asked. It could have been. Our election programme is clear: by reducing CO emissions and by other environmental measures, 50PLUS monitors the viability of future generations. Can I ask the proposers to respond to this? Furthermore, 50PLUS wants even a special minister for sustainability and innovation. What do the proposers and the Minister think of this idea? Could this possibly be a next cabinet helping to achieve the goals? Then some questions about the law. Last week, the European Commission presented a strategic long-term vision for a thriving, modern, competitive and climate-neutral economy by 2050. Can the petitioners and the minister respond to this? Do the proposers perhaps consider any changes and can they go into the real added value of this law once again, given that the Netherlands has signed the climate agreement? This law is a basic law with a primary objective, an intermediate objective and a secondary objective. The way progress is carried out is set out in the interim by the Government of Service in a five-year climate plan, a biennial progress report and an annual climate note. The Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment presents an annual climate and energy exploration. I ask very simply: isn't it a bit much? What is clear from the law is that the incumbent government must agree on the plan for the next period every five years. Do the proposers see a possible bottleneck there with 50PLUS? After all, as you sit there with seven parties, you are by no means in agreement on how and how the objectives should be achieved. The fact that the impact of the Dutch climate agreement on the climate tables seems to be difficult is a fearful omen. This also applies to yesterday's news that the Netherlands is far from achieving the target of 25% CO reduction by 2020. Do the proposers see the danger that parties will not agree or that compromises will not be reached? Is it also the reason not to set five-yearly intermediate targets? Isn't this how we're gonna get to the targets until 2050? Who's gonna be able to pay if a target isn't reached? Is it not possible to consider including one or more target (s) with an obligation to achieve results earlier than 2050? I'd like a response from the petitioners. Having said this, this law deals with the broad lines that sound very abstract but for the people at home it is very concrete. What's gonna happen when? What do you want me to do? And above all: how much is it going to cost? We just don't know that, and that's what makes people shiver. It remains vague, because according to the letter of amendment, a full annual transfer is not desirable. The proposers inform that the adjustment of purchasing power and income position is carried out through the annual budgetary cycle. That doesn't reassure 50PLUS at all. We would have preferred that to be seen differently, like the Council of State. 50PLUS maintains the view that the costs of climate policy should be distributed in proportion and according to capacity. How are we going to ensure this with this law? That's our question to the Minister. If we do not ensure this in this law, can the proposers and the minister indicate how they view this issue? Can they reassure people? How are costs shared between citizens, businesses and governments? To what extent is the polluter-pays principle taken into account? I would also like to comment on this. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is only a small country. So in absolute terms our role is limited, but as far as 50PLUS is concerned, that should not be an excuse to sit still and do nothing. Let our role be a pioneer. After all, you cannot appeal to others when you sit back. Let us continue to work together to convince the rest of the world of the need to reduce CO2 emissions. And given the current coverage of global emissions, it is really necessary. It's also an opportunity for our country, Mr. Chairman. We like to quote Ruud Koornstra, the first National Energy Commissioner, and bitches involved in our election programme. He says: "We have to get to work, because we are now dealing with the United Nations' climate objective and 17 sustainability objectives. We can be front-runners again and make money with it." 50PLUS believes in those opportunities. We saw it with our own eyes during the various work visits. Let's take those chances, too. Mr. Chairman. This law includes the greatest social issue, the greatest change of this time. Literally everyone gets involved, every household. That is precisely why it is important that we do it together, young and old, poor and rich, for- and opponents. I ask the Minister and the proposers: show understanding and engage in conversation with people who have difficulty with it. Show understanding and engage with people who are afraid of the financial consequences. Show understanding and engage with people who are afraid of the practical consequences. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is clear in the election programme, as I said: the elderly want to keep the world alive, for present and future generations, for themselves, for children and grandchildren. The climate has changed in recent decades and is concerned about the world in which new generations are growing up. A good example of this is the movement Grandparents for the Climate. Mr. Chairman. It will be clear to you: 50PLUS supports this initiative law and compliments to the proposers. For young and old and by young and old, together on the way to a cleaner and safer world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u126	Thank you, Mr. Geleine, for this lovely and passionate speech. I'm looking forward to seeing you, Mr. Krol, but I actually want to suspend congratulations after the first term, because that's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u127	I do not think it is up to a chairman to express appreciation of the quality or lack of speeches. So it was a nice speech, an inspired speech or not, I don't think that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u128	Okay. I liked it. So that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say, also in the direction of Mr Baudet, that this is a maiden speech and that it is very common for the President to be positive about it. Even with Mr Baudet, that was the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u130	Yes. And I really think that the most beautiful speeches so far are the maiden speeches, because there is always something personal in them. So I hope you guys keep the tradition going. Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the initiators of this important law. Opposition and coalition stand shoulder to shoulder to legalize climate goals and ambitions. The Christian Union joined this initiative with conviction in 2015, and in the cabinet formation, the Christian Union has worked successfully to make the creation visible and tangible in this coalition agreement, which some call the greenest government agreement ever. This Climate Act not only sets longer-term targets, but also ensures timely implementation of climate policy and an annual state of affairs, so that we can adjust in good time when the targets are in danger of getting out of sight. And that too is essential, as it turned out yesterday. Climate change is something of all times. The earth will continue to spin its circles at a temperature rise of 2 degrees or more, but the problem is modern man. We have become vulnerable in our modern, high-tech, densely populated world. When the glaciers of the Himalayas melt, hundreds of millions in India, Nepal and Bangladesh no longer have drinking water. Half of the world's population lives in urbanized, low-lying deltas without future-proof sea protection. And global migration flows due to changing weather conditions have not been so real and imaginable before. The elimination of a strengthened greenhouse effect resulting from human action is therefore an inevitable moral obligation of this generation to all subsequent generations. Mr. Chairman. When you rent a holiday home, you leave it as clean as you found it, or rather cleaner. We all think that's normal. We are the first generation to be able to reverse the trend of increasing pollution and waste, and that is why this climate law is such an important step. The Christian Union is hopeful about achieving the climate goals. In fact, it's gonna benefit us. Not only to reduce emissions, but also in the interests of our knowledge-based economy, quality of life and public health, energy transition is urgently needed. We opt for a high-tech knowledge economy that is circular and clean. Not an economy that wastes materials from linear thinking, exhausts resources and pollutes the air, because with the latter, you end up undermining the internationally competitive economy. There's no alternative. We are therefore committed to a clean, smart and social energy transition. Clean means combating greenhouse gases as much as possible, working on a clean and therefore circular economy, but also passing on healthy air and a clean environment to future generations. Smart means: use the knowledge we have in the Netherlands to lead the world in energy and environmental technology. But also: make sure we take smart measures for the energy transition. This means that we should not only focus on reducing CO but on that broad transition to a clean economy. One example is the debate on biomass in coal-fired power stations. Maybe you meet the targets according to the defined definitions, but burning wood to generate electricity is not a smart solution. That's silly. It is mainly a paper reality, because it takes many decades for CO emissions to be absorbed by new biomass. Not a smart solution, both from a climate perspective and from a transition perspective. And social, third, means that anyone can participate. The energy transition must also be interesting for people with low incomes. It is therefore important to take a close look at the precise effects of all specific individual measures separately and at all purchasing power effects, and not just at the end of the climate package. This is crucial for acceptance, because disadvantages for people always feel heavier than benefits. Look at the VAT increase, the first shift from labour to consumption. You can say ten times that it is compensated by a lower wage tax, but that message does not come. People only hear half of it. This will also be the case with climate action. We need to make clear the disadvantages and the benefits per measure. We need to make sure that insulation from your home, an emission-free car and self-generating energy are accessible to everyone. Finally, it is necessary for industry to pay more in proportion to households, as these companies will also receive significantly more money from the SDE. Fair is fair. CO pricing is a fair instrument, say leading economists and De Nederlandse Bank. Again, predictability of public policies is important in the form of a gradually rising minimum price. This is better and more effective than all kinds of temporary seduction horns and bells to possibly bring about a sustainable change in behaviour. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address a number of aspects of the initiative proposal, first of all on the objectives. In 2030, 49% reduction compared to 1990 is set as target, in line with the Government Agreement. This is a target. The law leaves room to deviate from the goal, for example by external factors. Deviations may also be made if measures are counterproductive to achieve the target by 2050. At the same time, this law aims to bring stability to long-term climate policy: stable and predictable, according to the proposers. Also, the intermediate goal is not to lag behind towards 2050. We must therefore be very reluctant to deviate from a pre-defined objective. Can the initiators comment on this? Do they agree with the Christian Union that the intermediate target should be met by 2030 and that only in a very exceptional case can there be derogations? And what situations do the initiators find exceptional enough? The cabinet is committed at EU level to a 55% reduction in 2030. If this fails, cooperation will be sought in a leading group of like-minded countries. We also see the start of the debate in Europe before 2050. The European Commission has presented a strategy for 100% CO reduction in 2050, i.e. a CO-free economy. The target for 2050 in the Climate Act is 95% reduction. How do the initiators see these different developments in the light of the goals of the Climate Act? Every five years, a climate plan will be drawn up setting out the main guidelines of climate policy for the next ten years. Upgrading of the climate plan is possible every two years and every year the Chamber receives a climate note with concrete measures. In what way are we looking beyond these ten years? How are costs and benefits taken into account in the longer term? We often overlook the problem of longer-term costs and benefits, such as cleaner air or less public health costs. Earlier, I indicated that the energy transition should be smart and innovative. Short-term choices are therefore worse for the longer term. Previously, I also indicated that the energy transition should be smart and innovative. The choices for the next ten years may not be the smartest in the light of the energy transition towards 2050; please respond. At the same time, we see that investing in knowledge, in science and in innovation in the transfer of our electoral programmes is still charged as a cost. Do the initiators agree that this should change? The scientific spokesmen of the Education Committee here in the Dutch Parliament are working on a research pathway that should give more insight into the long-term economic values of science and innovation. In what way can the climate plan from this law contribute to the awareness that more investment in science and innovation is crucial to achieving the energy and climate transition and to keeping the cost of this transition economically affordable? Investing in technology is not a cost, but an investment in the future that yields more than it costs. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State suggests to the government in the opinion accompanying the bill that not only measures should be included in the climate plan, but also a legislative agenda. Is the Minister prepared to do so? The Council of State also recommends aligning the climate agreement with the climate law cycle, for example in the area of monitoring and assurance. How does the Minister intend to coordinate this? Mr. Chairman. With the adoption of the Climate Act, we may be in the front line internationally, but we are certainly not in favour of the troops in order to achieve the objectives. In fact, we're chasing the troops. In Europe, only Luxembourg is doing worse. We therefore need not only an ambitious climate law, but also an ambitious climate agreement. According to the UN, countries should even triple their efforts to contain global warming. The impact therefore requires sharp choices, starting with the consistent taxation of CO emissions. Mr. Chairman. I've learned to be careful with the word "historical," but this Climate Law has everything to be. With this law, we are taking a significant step forward in caring for our creation, in a sustainable future for our children. I'd say we're just getting started. I look forward to the reaction of the initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Diederik Samsom and Jesse Klaver took the initiative to submit a Climate in 2016. They did so from a shared sense of responsibility, a shared sense of urgency and a shared sense of understanding that party political dividing lines and dividing lines between coalition and opposition had to be crossed. It is an expression of the will to show solidarity with future generations, not to consume and waste their living and environmental space which belongs to them in our generation. Mr. Chairman. The initiative has been extended to seven parties in the past year. That's good. It is parties that take responsibility together, parties that do not look away, parties that do not deny, parties that do not take away the climate problem, parties that take scientific consensus seriously and parties that take responsibility and appreciate the compromise. Mr. Chairman. This law is an important law. It is the basis for an approach that ensures that future generations can live in this country. It is no longer a question of whether we are going to tackle it, it is no longer a question of what exactly we need to achieve in terms of CO reduction. These questions are finally answered and that foundation creates a common basis. That is the basis on which we must build. The question is how to build a low carbon economy on that foundation that we are about to lay. What does it take to achieve the goals we set ourselves? Mr. Chairman. I have asked myself whether we will succeed in 11 years until 2030 or in 31 years until 2050. I also get a feeling of despondency on a regular basis. I would like to point out yesterday's report that CO production has risen again. Then you get the feeling that you're gonna be okay? What's it really gonna take to make this work? In my view, it is crucial that the changes that are needed should be experienced by the population as an improvement and progress, not as a threat and a deterioration, as some parties put it. In 31 years we can achieve a great deal. Look at the ICT. Where were we 31 years ago? Look at how much money we spent on it. Look what has happened to technological revolution. That makes me optimistic. Look also at what we have achieved in 40 years in the fight against environmental pollution. It is only 40 years since the Rhine and other rivers were used as open sewers in Europe and companies were screaming murder and fire to pay the cost of water treatment. That makes me optimistic, because that means that we can make major changes in a few decades' time. Mr. Chairman. If this project succeeds, for which there is a broad majority in this Chamber, it is our expensive duty to ensure that everyone can participate. We can only do that if we help people and if we don't let people go to hell. I say it so briefly, because people sometimes experience it that way. It can only be done if we share the burdens and desires fairly and also keep it affordable for the people who don't have a big wallet. It can only be done if we ensure that the market does not take out the dried grapes and only serves the purchasing power demand. It can only be done if we are aware of the concerns that people have and continue to take the problem seriously, even after today. Today we have a great degree of unity, but there are also great political contradictions. It just takes courage and leadership, and we need to bring it to fruition. Above all, we must realise that this enormous task is not primarily a technological task, but above all a social one. I sometimes compare it to urban and village renewal. This was also not about technology. It wasn't about the contractors and the engineers. There too it was about the people, because you are going to intervene very deeply in people's daily lives. Mr. Chairman. As a basic requirement, clean energy must be made accessible, available and affordable to all. I have already underlined it, but what we must continue to do above all is to work together. We need to settle our political differences and we need to see that we are going to do this job together. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. I was struck by an element from Mr Van Raan's contribution. He made a compliment and said at the same time that the law has symbolic value. He also emphasized the value of symbolism. I agree with him. The construction of our system of labour law and our welfare state has begun with the Children's Law of Van Houten. That was a law that, frankly, wasn't that crazy. It was a ban on child labour, but only three inspectors were appointed to ensure that the law was enforced throughout the country. Afterwards, you can also say that he did not suggest much in material terms, but that it was the symbolism of building a system of labour law and building a welfare state. They are built by all kinds of different political movements. Van Houten was a liberal. Later, Drees took important steps, as a Social Democrat. And Veldkamp as a KVP'er has taken important steps to build the social security system. And all that in a time of hiding, at a time when a great dividing line ran through society. That, in turn, makes me optimistic. I come to the end of my speech. I would like to thank the authors of the bill. I would like to thank all those who have provided support, and I would like to thank the Minister who supported this law on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Finally, Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Algemeen Dagblad wrote that the energy costs for a modal family next year will be €360 higher than this year. This year it was already €190 higher than last year. That's over $500 in two years' time. And that's just the beginning. These are costs arising from the energy agreement of 2013, the agreement that then Minister Kamp never fully passed on, so that we could not talk about it in that way, probably because of fear of massive rebellion in the country. In the meantime, independent experts estimate that this energy agreement alone will cost more than €100 billion and that the cost will amount to over €1,500 per four-person family per year by 2020. From now on, this climate law and all the new measures that people want to take should only increase costs. For example, the Economic Institute for Construction has calculated that it will cost EUR 235 billion alone to make all houses energy neutral, which results, among other things, from the objectives that are now being set. All other buildings, think of offices, schools and hospitals making them energy neutral, according to Director Taco van Hoek, will cost another 210 billion. That's a little less than 500 billion. Then we haven't even started talking about industry, fleet, air traffic and so on. The fact that there is a total of some 1,000 billion involved in this plan, as I said earlier, is anything but unrealistic. 1,000 billion in the form of CO taxes, energy and gas taxes, meat and fish taxes, open space charges, flight taxes and so on. And why? Based on figures provided by the proponents of this climate law itself, if all climate plans were actually implemented in the coalition agreement, global warming would be reduced by up to 0.0003°C in the year 2100 or, if we actually managed to achieve 95% CO reduction by 2050, maybe double, 0.0006°C less warming. A recent factcheck came out on the number 0.00007°C less warming. In all cases a completely insignificant, unmeasurable, negligible temperature difference. If all the other countries were to meet the Paris targets, this would again, according to the models of the proponents themselves, lead to a reduction in the warming rate of 0,05°C. Meanwhile, the rest of the world continues to use fossil fuels. Countries such as the United States, Russia, India, China, Turkey, Iran, Australia and so on; they are not or hardly participating in this energy transition. Many hundreds of coal plants are still being opened worldwide. Recent estimates are based on an increase of 25% in CO emissions in China over the coming years. India still has very low CO emissions due to its development phase, but that will continue to grow explosively in the coming years, just like China. Over the next five years, Mumbai alone will invest 10 billion in the construction of new coal plants. Chinese companies are currently planning to build another 700 new coal plants. 700, just for the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u136	I am aware of Mr Baudet's position on this point. What I am genuinely curious about is whether he thinks that we as the Netherlands should want to be innovative leaders in the field of energy transition with the aim of being less dependent on energy sources from parts of the world that we do not want to be dependent on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u137	I am in favour of the Netherlands being an innovative frontrunner in all possible areas. I am not in favour of us having an energy transition. This dependence on the rest of the world is very speculative. You could also turn around that they depend on us, because first of all we buy their products. Secondly, there are plenty of places where you can just get fossil fuels and where it is not annoying at all to be dependent on, if you are already dependent. So yes, I'm very much in favour of innovation. No, I'm not in favour of obsessive energy transition with the aim of not using fossil fuels anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u138	That's a good point, I guess. How would Mr Baudet look like the ideal energy mix in 2050 in such a way that we are not dependent on regimes that we do not want to depend on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u139	I think I have just said that I do not think the whole dependency story is convincing, but perhaps Mr Bruins had prepared this question. My answer was that I do not believe in the idea that the buyer is dependent on the producer. Especially when it comes to countries such as Russia or the Middle East, there is much more reciprocal dependence. They are especially very dependent on us as buyers. I added that there are plenty of places where you can win fossil and it wouldn't be annoying at all to be dependent on it, if that were the case. So I don't see the problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr. Bruins, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u141	To lock up. I conclude that, for the future of our country, Mr Baudet relies on the feeling of reciprocity that we get from Islamic countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u142	Well, no. I think I'll give you a nuanced answer. I mentioned three aspects in my reply. Firstly, there are all kinds of reciprocity in a buyer-seller relationship. If you stopped taking gas from Russia, that country would bind this very annoyingly. That is also one of the reasons for countless theorists in the free market and so on to say that it is good to have mutual trade relations, because that makes countries better interact with each other. This is a generally accepted analysis of how countries deal with each other. That was also the basic idea of the European Union, which is that if we start trading a lot with each other, we will not go to war with each other anymore. So the doomsday, the doomsday scenario that is outlined that if we take products from country X, we become dependent on that country and blackmailed into sadness, is simply very one-sided. Secondly, there are countless countries and places where we can get fossil fuels, including places in the Netherlands, but also places in other countries where it would not be annoying at all to be dependent on them. Thirdly, I have endorsed the idea that it is wonderful to be innovative. It is not at all the case that we must insist on technologies from decades ago. That's not the whole point. The point is that it is absurd to want to reduce at the cost of 1,000 billion obsessive CO, without a positive alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u143	Then I'll go to Mr Moorlag. A short question and a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u144	I am aware of Mr Baudet's objections to the costs. I also know his doubts about the effectiveness of the measures. The question that precedes this is whether we have a climate problem at all in Mr Baudet's view. Is there a need, in his view, to take action against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u145	My answer to this question is negative. I don't think there's a climate problem. Nor do I believe that, as far as the climate is changing, as it has always changed, human beings have a very great influence on this. Thirdly, I do not believe that, as far as human beings are concerned, the right approach is to start reducing obsessive CO. We should then invest much more in mitigation. So to the extent that problems arise, you have to solve them by adapting to any changing circumstances, as we have always done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u146	You can be guided by what you believe individually, but Mr. Baudet is a scientist, he's scientifically formed. How does he look at the prevailing degree of consensus, which is there, not only about the existence of the problem, but also about tackling the problem, namely that we need to move towards a low-carbon economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u147	I am pleased to be reminded that I have graduated as one of the very few in this Chamber. I've turned my miserable PhD title into a full-fledged PhD. Partly in the light of the critical methodology you adopt in that way, I do not believe anything of the idea that there would be a world-wise consensus. There is an enormous difference of opinion on first of all the question of the extent to which climate change would occur. We have measurements, but it is extremely difficult to measure that properly. We've only had satellite readings since 1979, which allow you to really stratospherically measure what's going on. In addition, the sun naturally develops in all kinds of ways. There are volcanic eruptions. There are El Niños. There are so many aspects of the climate where the influence of that little bit of CO2 that we add to the atmosphere does not fall into it. It was about 280 particles per million atmospheric particles. Now it's about 400 CO2 particles per million atmospheric particles. That's very, very little. A large part of it is also absorbed by the oceans. Part is converted into oxygen by increasing the number of trees and plants. So that's all very insecure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u148	Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u149	Well, I thought you were supposed to answer a question, so don't interrupt me when I'm at a third of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u150	No, but the questions must be really short and so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u151	Well, if it's an interesting theme, then maybe it's... Look, you might want to answer one question very well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u152	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u153	...then you get all kinds of questions that are always about the same thing. I have underlined this several times in this Chamber. So far it hasn't come across entirely, so I'd like to explain it one more time. That whole concept of 97%...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u154	Mr. Baudet, I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u155	...consensus is just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u156	You already told me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u157	No, I haven't told you that yet. I've now told you about measurements and the impact of CO. But the fact that 97% is always said to agree is just bullshit! That's from one article that was published once by a certain gentleman I'm looking for now, because I had prepared for this interruption. I don't see it in my footnotes. That probably means I didn't get that printed paper then I look at my employee sitting in the back, so maybe that's how I can get it. But I can explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u158	No, Mr. Baudet. Please continue with your speech. You still have plenty of time to do your story. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u159	Well, I like explaining this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u160	It's not about being fun. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u161	Too bad I can't answer the question. I like to do it either bilaterally or if I get another interruption and my employee has printed the printed form that I don't have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u162	I see Mr Moorlag nodding now. I think he'll find the answer enough, at least a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u163	Good. I was talking about India and China, where there is a huge increase in coal power stations and CO emissions, and how absurd it is that the Netherlands is obsessed at 1,000 billion costs as a good boy in the classroom to shut down all those coal power plants, making all these houses energy neutral. And then we haven't even talked about Africa yet. From Africa, too, CO emissions will increase enormously, just because of the extreme population growth that that continent will be experiencing in the years to come and the need for energy, meat eating and countless things that will be emitted. So from that continent, too, no contribution can be expected to be made to reducing CO. Isn't there an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u164	No. I don't want it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u165	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u166	No, I'm not. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u167	It's weird. But don't run out of fossil fuels anyway, you hear people say. Well, no, that's not true at all. Gas is still available for hundreds of years and for at least a thousand years. And then the world isn't very bad, you hear people asking. That is not the case at all. Of the frightening doom scenarios that the alarmists present to us, we find absolutely nothing in reality. Sectarian apocalypse fantasies, that's what it is. There is no increase in drought in the world at all. I've shown a number of graphs here before. The global drought has even declined over the last 36 years. That's what we're seeing here. There is no difference in precipitation, not on land, not even at sea. It's just not there. And the number of hurricanes, which we have very good measurements of, has remained the same since the year 1900. It's all not true what's being presented to us. The damage caused by extreme weather has decreased relative to the economy. The number of casualties due to extreme weather has fallen spectacularly. And as far as we have reliable data on that, I've just said that that's not so easy to determine objectively at all. The average temperature on Earth has risen slightly, but much less than was always predicted. A rapid warming took place just between 1910 and 1925, well before significant greenhouse gases were emitted by humans. The climate has always evolved and has never been stable. The influence of man on this is highly dubious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u168	I'm just looking at you, Mr. Sienot, because I just sent you away. You may interrupt briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u169	I'm just going to see if I can get the printed page I'm missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u170	Yeah, I'll send the messenger by, and he'll be with the form in a minute, at least when it's printed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u171	I have been listening to Mr Baudet's contribution for a while. It is fine that he has his own faith, but the concerns about the affordability of this energy transition are simply real. We do not see how frightening about these costs by making hysterical calculations helps people to go through that energy transition in an affordable way. Can Mr Baudet help us and indicate how he intends to use this affordable energy transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u172	No, we don't want an energy transition. We don't want that at all. This is based on voodoo-like rain dances about the influence of man on the climate and all kinds of absurd Ark of Noah-like ghost stories about sea level rises. What is at the root of this is the Western debt complex. It is all our fault, we have to pay for it, we have to pay for it, we have to encourage mass immigration and we have to punish ourselves for Western wealth and successes. That's what's hiding behind this. The climate religion is a form of oikophobia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u173	I've heard scare-making, hysterical maths and beliefs, and now I'm hearing psychologization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u174	Sure. But why is my time running, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u175	That's all fine, but all those people sitting at home wondering how they're going to get an affordable energy bill, you send them into the woods with scare-making and psychologizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u176	It was an accident, but it was corrected, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u177	I like that you mention forests, because CO emissions have made it greener in the last century around 10% to 15%. After all, we have not yet discussed the extremely positive effects of CO. CO is oxygen for plants. It is for plants and trees on earth as it is for humans at the top of the Himalayas. They're constantly looking for CO, because there's very little CO. Plants and trees breathe that in and emit oxygen. As a result of CO emissions, there are more forests and there is more greenery on Earth. So indeed: we like to send people into the woods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u178	He has also shown the graphs presented by Mr Baudet in an earlier debate. That's when I let it go. He has just invoked the fact that he is the only graduate in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u179	No, not the only one, there are a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u180	...that he's one of the few. Someone who has been promoted also knows that, in all modesty, he is confined to his own field of expertise. This as well as a doctor in experimental physics as a doctor in law. We both promised in our promotion that we would handle scientific data fairly and carefully, critically and transparently. With the graphs you show, your statistics are selective and your scientific support complete andutter bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u181	Yeah, I disagree. I would like to hear the reasons and arguments for putting this on my head. I find it strange that you call this. I find that unworthy of a doctor, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u182	Yeah, I don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u183	And in English, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u184	Yeah, I was just about to say something. If something like that is pronounced...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u185	How would you put that in Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u186	...by a member of the Christian Union, that says a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u187	Yes, it is not only a doctor but also a Christian unworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u188	It's complete garbage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u189	You're gonna translate it, too. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u190	This is what happens when you step on people's religious toes. It's a religion, the climate, and people get angry when you attack it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u191	I would like to see whether we can conduct this debate in a respectful manner, without calling each other anything. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u192	Mr Baudet may be right. It's possible. We have a precedent for that too. Galileo Galilei was the only one who said the Earth revolves around the sun. The whole science said it wasn't and that the Earth was at the center. He was convicted of that and he had to withdraw it and then he said: okay, well, the sun orbits around the earth, but when he walked away he said: and yet she revolves around the sun. It may be that Mr Baudet is right, we should not deny that, and I do not, but that is a very small opportunity. I ask Mr Baudet to reflect on the following. If he's right, there's not that much going on and we can all be happy. Maybe we all hope he's right, too. But could Mr Baudet also admit, on the other hand, that if he is wrong and if the rest of the consensus is right, we have a huge problem? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u193	No. Not for two reasons. First of all, because with that money, that 1,000 billion that the Netherlands is spending and those tens of thousands of billions that the rest of the world would have to spend, which of course they are not going to do, but well, it can do a lot of other things that can so increase our level of prosperity and bring so much further that you do not know at all, if something changes, how we could then deal with it. We inhibit our innovation and our development very much. If you had said 30 or 40 years ago that something like the Internet would be invented, no one could have imagined it. The same is true of the enormous developments that we could have if we did not give away all our money to the climate. That's reason one. And reason two is that you can always use these funds, but also other funds, for adaptation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u194	I get that. Mr Baudet says no, if I understand correctly, because he thinks he is right and he does not recognise any other possibilities. That's fine. In that universe of Mr Baudet in which we would live, the share of fossil fuels is probably still quite large by 2050, we cannot rule that out. Does Mr Baudet agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u195	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u196	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u197	But we are very much in favour of developing, for example, molten salt reactors or researching nuclear fusion and other possibilities. It's fine to invest in innovation. The Netherlands should continue to do so, only not with the idea that we are doing so because of an energy transition and all kinds of CO targets, because that is just wasted money. In short, our vision is that the climate has always developed and will continue to develop. Man may have some influence on that, but probably not, or at least not a very large one. It is absurd to cost 1,000 billion dollars to change our whole way of life; that leads nowhere. I don't think the population will go along with that either. I may not be able to convince you on the basis of arguments, but I might be able to convince you on the basis of social reality. 2 billion a year this government wanted to give away to foreign shareholders by abolishing the dividend tax. That led to a huge social fuss. Much of the cost of climate policy as it is currently under way is yet to come. I do not think the Dutch people will want to go along with that. Research after research shows that people may think it is important to do something about sustainability in an abstract sense but that they are totally unwilling to pay a lot of money for it. So sooner or later this whole plan will end, just as it will end in the rest of the world, just as it has been stranded in the United States, as France has now said: we do not, sorry, I understand that you do not want that. That's what's gonna happen. Isn't it better to anticipate that reality now? You just can't get it through. It's all wrong, it's all based on rogue science, to use a beautiful English term. Even if it is a beautiful ideal, it is not feasible and it is not realistic. Bet on adaptation, bet on innovation and stop obsessing about reducing CO2 and completely overthrow our way of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u198	Mr Van der Lee, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u199	GroenLinks does not agree with the Forum for Democracy, nor with the existence and recognition of climate change, nor with its cause and approach. I do have a question about an argument that you often use. What if you're in the government later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u200	Yeah, that sounds like...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u201	I don't wish it, but it could be. Suppose I or anyone else comes to you and says: my contribution to the Dutch tax revenue is 0.0000001, I don't want to pay taxes anymore? Do you think that's a legitimate argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u202	This interruption was made earlier by Mr Van der Lee and my answer was then the same as the answer I will give now, namely that you cannot say that it contributes to something you all do and what is useful, is the same as contributing to something you do not do with all of us and whatever is not useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u203	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u204	Once again, Mr Baudet has failed to give a good answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u205	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u206	We have established that Mr Baudet does not agree that climate change exists, and he does not agree that it is being addressed, but he constantly uses the argument: those others all want it, but the contribution to combating the rise in temperature is so small that you should not do it. He wouldn't go into that argument if I compared it to a taxpayer. It's an untenable argument, and you just have to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u207	No, the equation doesn't apply for two reasons. Question 1 is, what is the point of paying taxes if it is not done by the vast majority of the other people in your country and there is no functioning state to enforce it. That is the case in the world. The vast majority of the countries do not pay and do not participate. Then you'll think for yourself: I'm not gonna do that either. There is no world state. It's not enforced. China, India, the United States, Turkey, Russia, Iran, Australia and all of Africa are all out. So that energy transition story is a completely marginal phenomenon. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u208	Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u209	Then two. But this is important, Mr. Chairman. The second point is that it is a pointless investment at all. I think that most of us will say: paying taxes still has a certain purpose, because for that I get police and a number of other things back. And in this case, it isn't, because those costs that we incur lead to nothing. So there are two reasons why the equation doesn't work. Firstly, it is not useful other than paying taxes. Secondly, unlike paying taxes, others do not do it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u210	I was sorry that Mr Baudet was advertising for the energy comparison sites at the beginning of his contribution, because that is where the message came from as a source what he quoted. The question I have is next, and it can be very simple, yes or no. I mean, people want to go along with adapting to the circumstances, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u211	I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u212	Once again, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u213	See, that's what you get when a farmer just asks a very simple question with his sense of farming. I mean, people want to go along with adapting to the circumstances, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u214	Come with...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u215	We have conditions in the Netherlands, drought, too little water, don't we? Don't people want to cooperate in adapting to these circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u216	You mean whether people want to adapt to changing circumstances in general. Is that the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u217	This question is really so simple that you don't understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u218	Yes, that's right, but I think I'm being benevolent and at least trying to understand what you're trying to ask in all your limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u219	I really think this is a shocking arrogance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u220	Then just ask a clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u221	It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u222	Do people want to adapt to circumstances? Yeah, sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. This depends on the circumstances and depends on the cost of the adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u223	Mr Geurts has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u224	Mr. Chairman. This is the first time I have seen Mr Baudet in a debate. I have never seen him for the rest, and I really think it is a shocking arrogance, including the way Mr Baudet stands there, in order not to be able to answer a very simple question. But at least I will stop the debate with Mr Baudet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u225	I didn't go to college. I went to work when I was 17. Mr Baudet has been scientifically formed, even promoted. My question to him is: why should I believe his point of view, his scientifically based view, and why should I not believe the scientifically based view of all those scientists who claim that we do have a climate problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u226	It's not so much my analysis. There are a lot of scientists who don't go along with the alarmist story at all. I think an open debate is fine. So, as far as I am concerned, you can also listen to people who believe that humans have a great influence on the climate. But first of all, there aren't a lot of them. I see far more critical voices than religious voices. I would also look at the financial dependence of those who constantly argue that we have such a great impact on the climate, and so on. There's a lot of money going on in that alarmist lobby.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u227	Finally, Mr Moorlag, final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u228	A final question. I don't know much about science, but I do know the concept of "methodic doubt," which is a foundation of science. My question to Mr Baudet is whether he has any doubts about his position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u229	Sure, and that is exactly what I miss about the IPCC and all those reports that are not so much investigating the causes of climate change as the impact of CO on climate change. The question posed by the IPCC is therefore wrong in itself. It's a question that implies a tunnel vision. If you want to conduct a truly broad, neutral, open investigation, then you should take all factors into account and that is exactly what the IPCC does not do. That's why the whole IPCC thing a priori makes it unscientific.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u230	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-6.u231	As I indicated at the beginning of this debate, the continuation of the debate will be either before the recess, 2018 or early next year. But this is planned in good consultation with the initiators. For the moment, I am suspending the sitting to congratulate Mr Geleijne on his passionate and beautiful maiden speech. I should like to congratulate you first; that is the advantage of being President. I shall now suspend the sitting until 2:45 p.m.
