ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, it was 4.30 p.m. and this debate was scheduled to start at 4.30 p.m. I see that not all the spokesmen who have signed up are present, but perhaps they will enter the Chamber so slowly but surely. Most of them have arrived by now. In any case, a word of welcome to the Minister of Defence, who I hope will answer the questions you are going to ask in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u2	I propose that we start with the first speaker who has registered, Mrs Bruins Slot, on behalf of the CDA. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u3	Mr. Chairman. This bill regulates that the conscription will also apply to women if we are ever to re-implement that conscription. The proposal was on the list as a hammer piece. That was a bridge too far for the CDA anyway. Because it's about something. I can now tell by the number of spokesmen that everyone had something like this: but this is a legislative proposal that we really still have to talk about with each other and the Minister. Because what does this bill mean? It means that both men and women can soon be called upon to fight for the Netherlands if we end up in heavy weather, and that is not nothing. Of course, the legislative proposal has a highly symbolic content, because the obligation to vote has been suspended. There is now a professional army consisting of men and women. Women now make up about 10% of the army. That service only comes back in exceptional situations. We discussed this earlier during the discussion of the legislative proposal on which it is based. In these exceptional situations, the Minister talks about "long-term territorial threat." It's nice to look back at the history from time to time. Because this issue has a long history. During the examination of the Duty Act of the Fourth Cabinet-Colijn-Old, which was in 1939, some members of the First Chamber already asked questions about this. They asked the following question. "Some members would like to know whether the intention of the regulation is to involve young women in the defence of the country, even if similar in other countries." The reply was also included in the reply in the written documents. What was the reaction of the fourth Colijn cabinet in 1939? "It is not primarily intended to involve young women in the defence of the country." So even in 1939, the government was already of the opinion that one could not rule out in advance that it would ever come to such an extent that women would be called upon to perform military service. But also when the framework law was introduced in 1997, the conscription of men and women was discussed. And the government then wrote, in 1997, that there was no unisex service until the social position of man and woman was equal in terms of income, status and power. Mr President, if we have to do that, then we have some time to go. So, in fact, I find the government's 1997 reasoning a little messy. The Council of State did not consider it to be such a good basis in 1997. The Council of State now states that there is an increasing risk that a military service can only be contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution for men. There must be no unfair discrimination on the grounds of sex. How does the Minister view this? Mr President, hopefully it will be a far-from-my-bed show for years to come that there are serious reasons for reintroducing military service. During the introduction of the framework law on compulsory service, the grounds for exemption have already been discussed. Those are the grounds, the reasons why you don't have to enlist. The Minister quite rightly writes in the answers to the written questions that this also applies, for example, to men and women, or to women and women, or to men and men, to caring for children, or to caring for family members or fulfilling an indispensable function. The simultaneous summoning of both parents or caregivers of children will not be discussed. I would like to hear again from the Minister that this is indeed the case. At the CDA, we think that's very important. But of course there is another category of women. For example, they may be pregnant if they are called up for service. Or they could get pregnant while they're on that service. It does not seem desirable for the CDA to call on these women to fulfil the military service. We must also give them the opportunity to put an end to the military service if they become pregnant during that time. It is important to discuss this at this stage, because the Minister has already put forward some of those grounds for exemption in the written procedure. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. The re-establishment of military service is hopefully still a long way away. The introduction of social service is much closer. Young people are given the opportunity to make a voluntary contribution to society. Then it's about them discovering their talents, taking a look at organizations' kitchens. That service, like I said, is voluntary. The Secretary of State of VWS is in consultation with civil society organisations, with youth organisations, to implement this. For many young people, Defense is an unknown organization; and often makes unknown unloved. Military people are rarely encountered in society. The CDA regrets that. In this respect, the CDA would also like to have an answer to the question as to what is going on with the relaxation of the uniform ban, which we would like to see, if that is possible. In fact, you only see soldiers with Princess Day on television, at Eindhoven Airport, at Schiphol Airport and here at the entrance of the Lower House. But I can imagine you could live in Almere for years without ever meeting a soldier. This while at the same time Defence is a versatile and challenging company: land, sea and air, and now also in space and cyber. General De Kruif always said that Defence, the army, is the best forming institution in the Netherlands. This involves learning to work together, to gain discipline, but also to gain perseverance. The CDA would like to see Defence join the social service as well: with the safety & craftsmanship programme, Defence has already gained the necessary experience with enthusiastic young people who want to know more about working in the army and also want to see what such an army looks like. So what opportunities does the Minister see to participate in the development and implementation of social service? Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u4	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. Please stand still, because Mrs Ploumen has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u5	My question concerns the second part of Mrs Bruins Slot's speech. It is a good thing that she draws attention to the awareness of the armed forces in society and calls for young people to relate more to the armed forces. Now there have been a number of events in recent months, you can't call it incidents where hazing took place and young people have been damaged. I think that we all believe that this cannot be the intention. How does Mrs Bruins Slot feel, in the light of her speech, that such practices can be countered? Does she agree with me that it is high time for the DOD to make a harsh statement about this and record it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u6	In addition, it is important to distinguish between two cases. On the one hand, a lot of men and women in Defense do their job fantastic every day, with the right moral compass, and they do the right thing with people. Mrs Ploumen says that all the time, so we share that. In addition, we have indeed seen around Schaarsbergen that very nasty and reprehensible things have happened. What I think is right and, of course, we as the whole Chamber have given the impetus to this is that we have asked the Secretary of State to have independent investigations carried out. The committee set up for this purpose is now doing its job and talking to a lot of people. It is therefore also important that it comes up with conclusions and results. After that, I expect the two directors to really work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u7	That also covered this point for Mrs Ploumen. Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. Her contribution has shown what this debate is about, but I have been so clumsy not to mention the subject at all. For the listeners at home, I would like to mention the amendment of the framework law on compulsory military service and the law on conscientious objection regarding the application of military service to women. I now come to Mrs Diks, who has signed up to take us for a few minutes with the contribution of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground is not permitted." That is how it sounds to all of you, if it is right, well-known Article 1 of our Constitution. This is a hard-won achievement which can be celebrated and which also has consequences for women. That is why it is a good thing that we are considering again today through this legislative proposal that the position of women at this time is equal to that of men. In preparing this debate, it became clear to me, moreover, that not everyone is equally aware of the fact that there is still military service. It just doesn't seem so topical anymore because the attendance obligation has been suspended since 1997. The military service now only applies to men. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it also applies to service in the army, which, of course, women are not inferior to men. In fact, Mrs Bruins Slot mentioned it: there are already a lot of women who are putting their lives at risk for our country and our ideals. From this conviction, my group can therefore wholeheartedly support this proposal. Mr President, I have one more point of a more technical nature. During the written round, GroenLinks asked the Minister why the AMvB, the general measure of governance, is not subject to a heavy pending procedure now that this part is also being modified. It was a follow-up procedure first. In reply to our questions on this subject, the Minister in the note on the report makes an argument about an internet consultation, which I could not quite follow, to be quite honest, and I am, of course, under the assumption that this is not up to me. In the explanatory statement, the Minister states that an ordinary procedure for the suspension is sufficient. That is to say, in the view of the Council of Ministers, consideration is sufficient before the draft AMvB is sent to the Council of State. However, this does not seem to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to do justice to the position of the Chamber, or rather to that of the Chambers, and to the importance of the subject. In an amendment, you have already been given all of this, and we are therefore asking for a heavy procedure to strengthen the position of the two Chambers. This point, of course, sounds very technocratic, but in fact it is very important. The question is whether the House of Representatives and the First Chamber will soon be able to decide, should the compulsory service ever be reactivated, what to say about setting the so-called detailed rules. These are rules on policy that determine who can possibly be excluded from compulsory service. We think that's still about something. GroenLinks believes that such detailed rules should be made very carefully and, above all, with parliamentary consent. I have therefore drawn up an amendment which regulates a weighted suspension procedure. This is a procedure that allows a minority of the Chamber to force the government to turn the subject of the AMvB into a law if it does not agree with the content of the AMvB. Can the Minister explain her previous written response? I also hope, of course, that the Commission will take a positive view of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u9	Thank you, Mrs Diks. Please stand still, because Mrs Bruins Slot would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u10	I have another question about the amendment. Mrs Diks explained very clearly that a fifth of the Members would then be able to choose to regulate it in a formal way by means of a law if the right to vote was reactivated. Why do you choose a law in a formal sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u11	I don't choose a law in a formal sense. The point is that I want to or that I think it is wise that both chambers should have their hands free when it comes to something so important. In this case, it is an important issue. At the time of compulsory service, someone must make his body and his members available. Let me put it this way: from the system. I think it is important that both chambers should be able to give their opinion on this rather than that only the Council of Ministers can send the draft AMM to the Council of State. In fact, the Chamber is actually putting itself out of play if we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u12	Of course, there are several possibilities for this. There are, of course, many additional requirements to the treatment of a law in a formal sense. It's often over a year and a half. We can assume that if the turnout is reactivated, there will be speed. There are also possibilities to send AMvBs to the Chamber first, allowing the Chamber to debate this, and then you will be ready in two or three weeks. So why does Mrs Diks choose a trial that could take a year and a half instead of a trial in which you also ask the Chamber for its opinion, but which can be completed in a week or two or three?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u13	A few comments on that. First of all, I can imagine that if this were to apply and the military service would have to be reactivated, it would not be something that will happen tomorrow morning. That's what we all see coming here. I therefore expect the Minister to take action in order to involve us in this in good time. So I can't imagine that one day we'll wake up and the military service will suddenly have to be introduced by emergency law or something like that. If that is the case, an emergency law can of course be used. I just used the word. Of course, the House can also debate this emergency law. I am not therefore concerned with organising a complex, technocratic, bureaucratic situation. I am concerned that the Chamber should hold itself in position and give itself the position to hand over to the ministers, to the cabinet, at any time when it comes to compulsory service, information on this matter and its position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u14	Mrs Bruins Slot, can we continue, or would you like to ask a brief last follow-up question on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u15	I think Mrs Diks' point is that there should be involvement of the Chamber. But you can organize that in a much faster way than on this detour. A disadvantage of the law is also that it is much more difficult to change a law in the event of a change in social attitudes, which makes it more difficult to change your own position. How does Mrs. Diks feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u16	The AMvB is of course set up at the time the service is reactivated. Then, of course, we know what the changed social situation is. It is therefore not the case that a new law is already being made or a new AMvB is being set up in case the service is reactivated. No, if you took this, nothing would happen for a while. If the situation is serious, you yourself referred to it and if we need to take action, then this procedure applies. It is therefore not the case that, with the adoption of this amendment, we are going to put in place a law that could apply to a situation at any time in the future. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u17	Thank you, Mrs Diks. Then I propose that we proceed with Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66, who has also registered to take us on board in her contribution. Mrs Belhaj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u18	Mr. Chairman. It is a special day, because the D66 Group, like a number of other groups here in the House of Representatives, is looking back with pleasure at the moment when D66 and the PvdA called on the then Minister to investigate what was necessary to make the Framework Law compulsory for women. So it's a festive moment. Of course, I'm going to explain in substance why that is. But the temptation is also great to talk about feminism in a broader perspective from this place. I've got ten minutes for that. I'm not gonna do that entirely, but I think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u19	I'd like to ask you to stick to the theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u20	The theme is women, feminism, oppression, exclusion and lack of equal treatment in this country. That's kind of special, isn't it? But I won't discuss that in detail here. For those who do, I am extremely interested in Simone de Beauvoir. She has actually drawn up a very beautiful philosophy that fits in with this, namely that the identity of the woman would only be related to the existence of a man, and that the woman is always the other because of it. De Beauvoir also made the beautiful statement: "You are not born a woman, but you are made a woman." We address that great philosophical theme here today in the House of Representatives. That is why I found it relevant to give the people at home that there is also a feminist perspective on this legal treatment. Mr. Chairman. An equal society in harmony means that women and men have not only equal rights, but also equal obligations. On the contrary, protecting our territory is no exception. Over the last 20 years, our military has developed into a professional organisation with professional soldiers not only focused on national defence, but also to a significant extent on promoting and enforcing the international legal order. Mr. Chairman. On the contrary, we see a major role for women in promoting and enforcing the international legal order. As symbolic and as a matter of principle the amendment of the framework law on compulsory military service and the law on conscientious objection, we hope that this is the positive signal that does not only respect the equality of men and women, but also makes women feel more welcome and at home with Defence than ever before. To this end, I also tabled another motion in which I asked the government to take measures to achieve more women in the defence sector. Mr. Chairman. D66 welcomes the principled nature of the law. Society is so emancipated that we do justice to it by not making a distinction by sex in the service, and by making it compulsory for everyone to do so. An inclusive society is also a gender-neutral society. Mr. Chairman. D66 also notes that the amendment before us today does not mean the reactivation of military service. My colleagues were talking about that a moment ago. We welcome the proposal that, in the fateful event of reactivation of compulsory service, rules will be laid down for the postponement, waiver and exemption of certain family, career or study conditions. For example, it is not inconceivable for us that the completion of a study could give rise to an exemption from compulsory service, as well as the undesirable situation in which two parents or caregivers of a child are summoned simultaneously. Mr. Chairman. D66 attaches particular importance to the equivalence of men, women and transgenders. We are therefore very curious to see to what extent the government is able to plead with international allies on grounds of principle for a gender-neutral conscription. We are thinking of our partners in the EU and in NATO. Mr. Chairman. Let it be very clear: where Suze Groeneweg fought 100 years ago for the position of women, mothers, daughters and fiancées of soldiers and where Aletta Jacobs fought to be the first woman in the Netherlands to study at a university, D66 will at all times plead for an equal and inclusive society. A society in which sex does not determine whether you are granted certain rights and duties. A society that is the breeding ground in which everyone can make full use of their potential. Because before the law, we're all equal: man, woman or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u21	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. That was neat within the time you signed up for. We will continue with Mrs. Popken, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can keep it short without all that feminist talk. That was an open-ended shot. We are talking today about a change with a very long, very high theoretical character and little effect in practice, hopefully at the moment. The question before us is whether women should also be called upon to take up military service if their suspension is withdrawn. That is what my group is saying. The PVV considers it only logical that both men and women are called to service when there is a war situation. After all, equality between the sexes is not only a matter of rights but also of obligations. Serving your country when your country asks for it, we find a duty that applies to everyone. But until the day the conscription is re-established, or the suspension is withdrawn, this government must do everything it can to prevent a war. That is why we say: close the borders and de-islamise the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u23	Thank you, Mrs Popken. We will continue with Mrs. Becker, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to those Members who have had this bill rejected. This finally gives me the opportunity to speak in defence as an alternate for Mr Bosman. I heard it yesterday, but I still prepared myself. It also gives me the opportunity to contribute to the fact that we are dealing with this important bill here with almost all women. Nothing to the detriment of Mr Van Dijk, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u25	And Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u26	And Mr. Bishop! Sorry, Mr. Bishop, how could I miss you? This amendment regulates that men and women within the armed forces have the same rights. Let us be honest: this change should have been made 30 years ago. Anyway, apparently the spirits weren't ready for such a change of law at the time. That change is now on the table. The VVD Group welcomes the initiative taken by former Minister Hennis. Men and women will soon be equal when it comes to military service, and that is quite right as far as we are concerned. Granted, it's an administrative act. The duty of turnout has been suspended and no one is considered to be in military service when adulthood is achieved. But while we're here, it might be good to ask the Minister a few questions. What about the position of women within the armed forces? Is the organisation actually set up on and ready for equal treatment between men and women without any other quality requirements? Are all positions open to women and are the demands equal? For example, we know that the Marine Corps has been open to women since 1 January 2017. Did that also lead to female marines? I also have a technical question about the light front suspension procedure that is now in the law. I have taken note of the amendment tabled by Mr Diks, which would transform it into a difficult procedure. This has just been discussed in the debate. Rules on exemption, postponement and exemption are then governed by law, if it is up to the Chamber. This gives us more influence on the implementation of the Before the VVD can take a position on this, I would like to know from the Minister why the cabinet has chosen not to regulate this in the law at all. Are there any practical reasons for this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Administrative equality between men and women is one thing, but the effect is sometimes more difficult. The VVD Group assumes that Defense will do everything in its power to treat everyone within this beautiful organization equally, regardless of gender, origin or belief. Only then will the DOD be a real reflection of society. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u27	Thank you, Mrs Becker. Then we come to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that I agree with the feminist perspective that Mrs Belhaj has just outlined, because that does matter. In 2012, the Netherlands received the first female Minister of Defence: Ms Hennis. Since recently, women have been allowed to join the Corps of Command; Mrs Becker has already mentioned it. It is therefore only natural that compulsory service should also be opened up to all, including women. The Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has taken this issue on board. I would also like to thank the cabinet for continuing its work. I have a few comments and a few questions. My first comment is that it is a good thing that the equality of men and women now translates into compulsory service, even though it is now inactive, if I may put it that way. It is clear that there are equal obligations with equal rights. Women naturally want to fulfil these equal responsibilities. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister the following. The grounds for exemption have already been discussed. My father was the third boy in a very large family and thus had to do with, as he himself called it, brotherly service. I had some very romantic performances about you doing something extra for your little brothers. I'm sure he did, but it had something to do with the conscription. There's gonna be nurse duty now. Of course, there are many practical obstacles to this too. How does the Minister see that? Will this be sufficiently regulated with the amendment of this framework law? My second question concerns the equal treatment of men and women in the armed forces. Mrs Becker asked for that too. What about access for women to the armed forces, not only in a formal but informal sense? Do they feel welcome? Do they feel seen? How does the Minister see the events that I have just spoken about and which are not incidents, in the light of the accessibility of the armed forces to all, as we are going to lay down in this framework law? I refer to the hazings and the closed culture in some places, although there are also places in the armed forces where things are going very well. Mr. Chairman. Those were my comments and questions. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u29	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I call Mr Bishop. He has set his speaking time to ten minutes. We're gonna listen to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u30	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This afternoon's list of speakers is moving along the lines of our speech: ladies first. We know that statement: women and children first in times of need. It is not then that they go first to the front, or that they go first in the war, no, it is precisely the protection of women and children, and it is the protection of men. Women and children are the first to leave the sinking ship; so it is, Chairman. It will not surprise anyone that the SGP is therefore critical of the present bill, if only because of feminist statements that have just been used enthusiastically and with which we do not want to identify ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u31	It seems that this directly provokes a number of interruptions, but the first to speak is Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u32	The troops are advancing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u33	If I understand correctly, the SGP now has a female list leader for the municipal elections in Amsterdam, but does not believe that women could fulfil the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u34	No, that last wording is not entirely correct, but let me put it this way: the SGP does not find itself in a position to do so, and I will reveal part of my further argument that women should be able to become obliged to do so. And why? I will further motivate that in my speech. You'll be impressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u35	Are you waiting or are you asking another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u36	I'm waiting for that, and I think there'll be plenty of reasons to ask through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u37	I will see if I can give you the opportunity to do so, but we will first listen to Mr Bishop. He's moving on with his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u38	Mr President, this is one of the few interruptions so far, so I think you will be able to be a little generous with interruptions. In concrete terms, we question the necessity, usefulness and practical feasibility, but also the underlying concept of equality between men and women. First of all, the SGP does not see the need for the legislative proposal. I quote, because the government itself states: "It is the question of whether Defence needs and can ever be equipped with the calling of larger population groups." Another quote: "reactivation of military service is in fact only dealt with in a very specific situation, which is a substantial, expected long-term, territorial threat and a political will to make time and money available." Those are quite a few reservations and conditions. Isn't that why this bill has a very hypothetical content? What kind of problem do we solve with this? We're gonna end the turnout, but we're gonna extend the military service in the meantime. Sometimes you can see the humor of it. In other words, how likely is it that a substantial, long-term territorial threat will actually occur? And why is the military service now being introduced for women? What's with the timing? Surely it cannot be that it is only on the basis of a request to examine what might be necessary and then to come up with such a proposal? Secondly, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats doubts the usefulness of this proposal. What practical added value does it have to ensure that the compulsory service also applies to women? I am referring, of course, to the concrete added value for the quality and strength of the army in times of substantial and long-term threat or war. By the way, I do not want to say that women do not stand up for themselves, but I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u39	Mr. Bishop, Mrs. Belhaj wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u40	Mr. Chairman. I'm a little freaked out about this and I find it almost strange to look at this legal treatment in a very pragmatic way in 2018. The whole essence of this legal treatment is about the equal treatment of women and men in the Netherlands. Then you're not going to make your entire argument about the usefulness and necessity of the law, are you? What do you really think? Do you think that men and women should be treated equally by the State, and therefore by law, or do you not think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u41	Mrs Belhaj will not be unaware that I have announced four points: usefulness, necessity, feasibility and underlying equality thinking. All the themes will be discussed. I am now merely in favour of this proposal. So I can reassure you: not my whole speech is about usefulness and necessity. At least half of it is about feasibility and underlying equality thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u42	Then I look forward to your fourth point, which is also an important point in your speech in terms of priorities. Then I will hear your answer to my question as to whether you believe that women in this country should be treated equally by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u43	Follow up on your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think my speech is going to reassure you, perhaps in a slightly different way than you expect. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about foreign affairs, what are the experiences of the military service for men and women in countries such as China and Israel in both positive and negative terms? Mr. Chairman. Then third. The SGP sees a lot of difficulties in terms of practical feasibility. For example, military components such as the Submarine Service or the Special Forces lend themselves to a much lesser extent to the active involvement of women, as indicated by these circles themselves. Moreover, the situation may arise that both parents are called up. Mr Bruins Slot has drawn attention to this before. Is it explicitly included in the legislation that it will not be possible to deal with this? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the fourth point, which my fellow Members have long expected, which is the underlying principle of equality in this proposal. According to the SGP, equivalence or equality does not mean that women and men are exactly the same on the contrary, on the contrary, or do the same things. Of all European countries, only Norway has a compulsory military service for women. But there are also objections. In this context, a Norwegian feminist said that women make an important contribution to society. Women bear a heavy burden when it comes to caring for families, the sick and the elderly. Their efforts in this area are frequent and of great social value. If women are forced to defend themselves, women will be subject to extra burdens. Mr. Chairman. It follows from all of this that the SGP is charming from the premise that men stand up for women and children and that this is so courteous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u45	I have the feeling that your fourth point raises a number of questions. I therefore ask you, Mr Bishop, whether you have sufficiently highlighted your fourth point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u47	That's the case. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u48	The expectations were, of course, enormous and then this is very disappointing, especially because I asked a very serious question, namely whether you think that women are equal in principle according to the law. I would like to add a second question. According to the SGP, women also have other tasks, such as caring for others, caring for a family and having children. Are you aware that there are a lot of women in the Netherlands who choose not to have children, or choose not to live in a particular family structure? According to your theory, they might see a reason to comply with the conscription. Because they don't care. They have a cleaner or they just have a guy who also knows how to clean a toilet and do the dishes. It's possible. It's all possible these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u49	It happens. Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u50	My question is clear to me and I hope for a perfectly clear answer for all those girls in the Netherlands who do not think they deserve to receive a letter saying: welcome, you will be 18; you will also be required to serve. I think you think boys are entitled to it and girls aren't. I hope you see the importance of being absolutely clear about what you are saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u51	Presenting a conscription as a right is a rather curious figure, but well, that's okay, of course. That's your freedom. And then about equivalence. I used the term "equivalence," "equivalence." The fact that this term is in the law does not mean that you demand the exact same thing from both men and women. By making a distinction, you can promote equality and equality. There is a distinction between men and women. You call it having children. This is reserved for women and therefore gives them a special task. It is a special contribution to society. I will come back later to talk about how we think it could be better, but what is actually happening here is the following. Men also have a responsibilities package, which already covers compulsory service. In addition, an additional task, an additional obligation, is added to the work of women. In the opinion of the SGP, we should not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u52	A follow-up question from Mrs Belhaj. That may be a little bit more concise than just, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u53	Mr President, you are right, although I think it is very masculine of you to put it that way. No, I'm kidding!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u54	That's a feminist remark. Sorry, that was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u55	I'm afraid to make any more jokes about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u56	Well, I take it as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u57	Please go ahead, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u58	It's starting to annoy me a little, because no answer is given to my question. Perhaps I should make it even more specific: you are talking about the tasks that the woman already has. What tasks do you think all these girls in the Netherlands have, which you do not think should be treated equally? What exactly, from your point of view, is the job of those girls? Question two is: what physiological and psychological elements does the woman have in her, so she could not be able to keep the Netherlands safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u59	Mrs Belhaj is now introducing a new element, namely physiological and psychological elements. I didn't talk about that. I would have allowed that to become part of my speech if I had wanted to make a contribution on that point. What matters to me is the differences in tasks. In all sobriety it is still the case that care responsibilities are to a large extent in the hands of women. You can regret that or not, from different points of view. You call yourself having children, with all the responsibility and all the care that comes with them. This is not the case with men, it is not the case with women. We must not close our eyes to this distinction. We should not pretend to be gender-neutral. No, there's a distinction between husband and wife. That means that you have to take that into account in the policy choices. This is without prejudice to equality and equivalence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u60	Mrs Belhaj, but briefly concluding, because I also see two other colleagues who, I suppose, wish to interrupt on a similar point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u61	I asked very specifically what physiological and psychological elements are present in women, which makes you think they would not be suitable. I asked because you pointed out that women and men are different. So that's a very close listen. So I think it is extremely relevant to know exactly what you think is going on. I would also like to remind you that there are women who do not want children, there are women who cannot have children and there are very few women who are 40 years pregnant. That would be very special, too. Of course, that's okay, but for most women that's not the issue and there's a couple of years between different pregnancies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u62	In conclusion, Mr Bishop towards Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u63	To deal with the latter: after pregnancy, responsibility and care are not over. On the contrary, this is just beginning, even though it may not take 40 years; that is true. When it comes to the distinction between man and woman, I have deliberately not talked about physical or psychological differences. As far as I am concerned, that is not the issue. It is about the different tasks and responsibilities. There is still a basic division of labour, as we know it in our country, in our society. There's nothing wrong with that in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u64	I propose that we proceed to Mr Van Dijk. He also wants to ask you a question. I'm giving him that opportunity now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u65	I agree with many of Mr Bishop's questions and objections about this law, particularly in terms of timing and its practical necessity. But this argument of gender inequality that you are actually defending here is not at all mine. The explanatory statement states that we must be careful that this male service does not, in the long term, conflict with Article 1 of the Constitution, which states that equal treatment should be applied equally. The SGP doesn't agree with that, we just heard. Do you not agree with Article 1 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u66	Through the chairman, of course. It is now up to Mr Bishop to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u67	I have tried to indicate that I have just specified after Mrs Belhaj's interruption that there are no similar cases here. There is a distinction between men and women. You don't have to close your eyes to that policy. That means you're making different choices. That is why we prefer to link compulsory military service with men. The fact that women couldn't choose is another story. I shall come back to that in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u68	Does Mr Van Dijk have a follow-up question? Yes, so Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u69	Mr Bishop insists that there are differences, but I think you should look very carefully at the question of why it is now: the possibility of men and women to serve for Defence. They are equally capable of doing this. You are saying here that this would not be the case, because you have a different approach for women. You then talk about care and the fact that women need to be more in the house, I say in my words. Another task for women is at the heart of your speech. You'd rather not have them in the army. You already put them down as a list leader in Amsterdam, which I thought was a hopeful step, but now I see another retreating movement at the SGP. I therefore note that you do not actually agree with Article 1 of the Constitution, because that follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u70	You do not ask a question, but I would like to give Mr Bishop the opportunity to respond if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u71	Yeah, sure, that's one of my heart's desires. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that we must be very careful. It is not a question of cutting off access to, or choice of, a military career with my speech for girls or women. You didn't hear me say that. It's the obligation that's being imposed. I say: we must look at the broader social whole, at the palette of tasks. Then we'll have to see where they end up. This is completely separate from my own personal preferences or from the preferences of the SGP. Then I say: at the moment, the actual situation is that women are taking on more social and socially relevant tasks. Think about caring and having children and raising them, as Mrs Belhaj appointed. Then you should not add another obligation, with the thought: otherwise we do not treat them equally. Of course we treat them equally and equally, only his husband and wife are distinguished. That's a given, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u72	I see Mrs Ploumen, who also wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u73	With all due respect, I find Mr Bishop's argument unconvincing. He says that as far as he is concerned, women are allowed to join the army voluntarily, but he does not consider the service to be for them. In the light of this positive development of the women's list leader in Amsterdam, I ask Mr Bishop whether he does not deny girls access to compulsory service by force of habit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u74	I don't have the habit of being said things out of the power of habit. We're just thinking about that. If we had come to the conclusion that there is no distinction between men and women, that there is gender neutrality and all that kind of thing, we would have said that, but we still see that distinction clearly and clearly, also looking at the social situation at the moment. In that respect, we say: it is not real. I would remind you of the Norwegian feminist I just quoted and who apparently shows more of a SGP sound than a PvdA sound or some other socialist sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u75	I am convinced that there is a Czech minister on the side of the feminists. So I find that argument unconvincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u76	But then one of the liberal kind, I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u77	Keep talking through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u78	Not the power of habit, agree. I don't think it's convincing. Then we'll do it by another bow. What then is needed for Mr Bishop or for the SGP to support this bill? Is that, for example, that as many men as women participate in the labour market and that men and women spend as many hours caring for children and parents? Would that be the moment when we can welcome the SGP? Will the SGP then contribute to ensuring that we achieve that ideal situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u79	Quotas as half men and half women don't work, and you shouldn't get involved in that either. Those are coercive measures that you must keep far from in a parliamentary democracy. That way, you don't set up a close society. So far from that, I'd say. I do have a few points on which we may find each other, and these are also the conclusion of my speech. If we can find each other on that, there will be some consequences. Then we'll have to make some amendments together, but then we'll figure it out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u80	So let's move on to that slowly, shall we? Or would Mrs Ploumen like to say a few words?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u81	No, that sounds good to me. I'm looking forward to the opportunity to make some amendments together, but I'm not quite sure yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u82	Now you're pulling back; I think that's a little faint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u83	Finish your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u84	I will. Now people may wonder what the SGP wants. Well, the SGP is first and foremost for freedom of choice. A woman who wants to be in service, we don't stand in the way. If her talents are there, all the space for that. Has the Minister considered the possibility of choosing the individual woman rather than opting for an obligation? As far as she is concerned, what are the advantages and disadvantages of this freedom of choice so that the possibility is open without coercion from above? Secondly, the SGP is also in favour of social service or military service for all, for boys and girls, men and women. The good thing is that we find the cabinet entirely on our side. Then we do not have to do so much with amendments, but we still have to deal with a few details. Is it not strange, at least, that the government is now bringing forward this bill, when it also wants to introduce social service, which I believe is in the coalition agreement? How do these two initiatives relate to each other and what is the added value of military service compared to social service? Couldn't we have combined that better so that from a broader perspective this social obligation, this commitment to the community for boys and girls, could have been given form and content? Mr President, as this bill raises too many fundamental questions, the SGP cannot accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u85	Thank you. Please stand still for one moment, because I still see Mrs Ploumen standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u86	She's declaring our commitment to being concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u87	Mrs Ploumen had already been given the opportunity to ask you questions, but she may ask a final question very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u88	Yeah, 'cause my nugget's broken now. The SGP is therefore not acceptable to women, except if they register themselves and unless it is a social service obligation. The objections raised by Mr Bishop, which are not my arguments, do they apply in full? He's not really consistent in this and I'm disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u89	We are going to hear what Mr Bishop has to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u90	I have criticised the bill on the usefulness, necessity and feasibility of military service for women and the underlying equality thinking. At the same time, at the end of the day, I indicated that we are in favour of a social service; that is also in our electoral programme. That social service can be extended to a social service, a military service, that's all very well. The fact that you give freedom of choice to the community as a boy, a girl, a man or a woman is fine. If you want to talk about equality and equality, you give optimal content to those concepts, just not all according to the feminist measuring bar; that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u91	Now we have to go slowly to a conclusion. Mrs Ploumen, you may ask your last follow-up question on this point. Then I'll go see Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u92	I listened very carefully and precisely to Mr Bishop. My conclusion is that Mr Bishop will drop his objections if we call military service a social service, which may cover everything. I maintain that I find the argument totally unconvincing and potentially contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u93	But that's not a question, so I'd like to suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u94	But with the comment: combined with the freedom of choice for the sector in which one wants to be serviceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u95	That is the point you made. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Diks, who also wishes to put a question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u96	I've just been sitting here, crazy enough, listening to it with pleasure. I've just seen it as a bit of a comedy show, I have to be honest. Mr Bishop's argument is so far away that I cannot really follow it, but I would like to ask him another question. You state that you have no problem with Article 1 at all because you assume that men and women are equal. I wonder why you are actually in favour of the military service for men, because why shouldn't they just be able to make that choice voluntarily? A lot of men are already doing caring tasks, and they seem to be an argument for you not to introduce compulsory service for women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u97	Men's conscription is an existing obligation at the moment, although it is not being dealt with. If it comes to social conscription, including military service, as an option, then I can very well imagine that men are also given full freedom of choice, as well as women. But I find it strange that I continue to think that, while the cabinet wants to work towards a social service, one element is being pulled out and that it is said that we are going to settle the military service for girls. That's crazy, isn't it? I think that's really weird. I'm talking about duty, huh, not freedom of choice, but duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u98	Finalizing, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u99	You are always getting the coalition agreement, and that makes sense in most cases, but it just happens not to be the case with this bill. This has been going on for years. This is just a coincidence, as far as I am concerned. So I don't really see that connection at all. I find your argument, Mrs Ploumen, to be neither consistent nor credible. You include my question about the sense of military service for men in the social service, but that was not the question I asked. I asked you: if you think that the performance of caring duties is an objection to the exercise of the service, shouldn't the military service for men be voluntary? So shouldn't there be military service for men?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u100	Mr Bishop, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u101	I note that there is currently a military service for men. Period! And we have to deal with that. The moment there is a proposal to abolish it, we have another story. I find it strange to maintain that and extend the service to girls. I strongly dispute that we should approach this secularly. We are not talking about the coalition agreement here. Of course, it's about the policy the government wants to pursue, isn't it? And it's about social service, isn't it? And then, among other things, as part of that, it's about possible military service? If we're gonna sell that, we're never gonna finish the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u102	I don't think you're gonna get out. Mrs Diks can now really ask the very last follow-up question, because everyone was allowed to interrupt three times. So that right is yours, too. Then we continue with Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u103	Well, I would say: then I'm just waiting for the SGP's initiative proposal to abolish the military service for men and to make it voluntary in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u104	Right now, we have other priorities, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. Then we shall continue with Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u106	Mr. Chairman. As former spokesman for defence, but certainly also as spokesman for emancipation, I am pleased to be able to have this debate. And I would like to thank the SGP, which at least makes a debate about this legal process. That was the question. I even heard it was going to be a hammer piece at first. Well, on the contrary, you could say. Mr. Chairman. About three years ago there was the discussion of the initiative paper of then MP Joram van Klaveren to re-establish the service. That note was not taken over. Today we are again discussing a legislative amendment to the Framework Law on conscription, but now for the registration of women as military enlisted in the event of the suspension of entry into service and the effective entry into force of the conscription. Mr Van Klaveren will be surprised! At the time, three years ago, I said that I thought the proposal was unnecessary. This was another major policy change, namely the re-establishment of compulsory service. Now it is mainly a symbolic measure which, if adopted, could still give rise to fear among many young female compatriots. Whatever problem this bill solves is not clear to the SP Group. Of course, it regulates the equal treatment of men and women, and I am very much in favour of that. But is this change now the most urgent issue to shape the equality of men and women? That does not seem to me to be due to the suspension of military service. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet could do better in other areas where equality between men and women is not yet settled. For example, what about wages, Mrs Belhaj? Women in an equivalent profession still earn about 10% less than men. Why don't you do something about it? Fortunately, the Chamber, including the Labour Party's and SP's political groups, will soon come forward with a proposal itself. Wait and see!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u107	It almost looks like rhyme! Mrs Belhaj may ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u108	We'll wait and see. I just think it's a bit of an eye-catching point of view of the SP. In fact, you say: things that are not so well regulated in the law, you have to prioritize a bit and then see if it's important or not. But the fact that it doesn't treat women equally according to the law is reason enough to have to settle it today, isn't it? We are not going to, so to speak, call Mr Van Dijk in 50 years' time to ask him: do you know why in the Netherlands people have been accepted for so long that there are legal aspects that persist in the inequality between men and women? You're not going to argue that today, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u109	This is exactly the difference between D66 and the SP. D66 can make an incredibly loud noise about something that has virtually no effect at all today. If this law is taken over today, nothing will change. I have just explained in detail that I am certainly a strong advocate of equal treatment for men and women as a spokesman for emancipation. This is unlike the SGP. Let's get that straight. But let's not make things bigger than they are, Mrs. Belhaj. Effectively, this law has no effect whatsoever. This is very important to you. We have other things, such as unequal pay between men and women. Why aren't we talking about that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u110	A brief follow-up question, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u111	I think it's a little crazy to accuse people who decide today to stress that it's important to settle this, that they're making some kind of drama. The fact that girls do not feel treated equally plays a role on a daily basis in newspapers, on television, in girls and boys who are in class with each other, up to the time they start their own salary negotiations. It has an effect. The fact that your little brother gets a letter like that and you don't get a girl like that has an effect. I don't think it's weird at all to worry about people saying it's not that important to settle it in the law today. I think that every day in this Chamber you can worry about articles of law that still do not properly regulate the equality of men and women. I'm surprised you'd rather talk about reward than this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u112	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u113	There was no question asked. You may respond, but I would ask colleagues to ask a question when they interrupt, because that is the intention of an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u114	Mr President, it is getting weirder and Mrs Belhaj's speech is getting weaker and weaker. I very much agree with her that there is inequality between men and women and that much remains to be done when it comes to emancipation and equal treatment. From day one, things are already going wrong at school, or look at the toy store: blue and pink. It starts at birth. From the weekend I had a heated discussion about this. But, Mrs. Belhaj, it's not about the conscription. That is not the living discussion between men and women. There are really no masses of women crying out: I also want one of those letters for service, which does not actually exist. That is where we differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u115	We now proceed to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u116	Mr President, I do not really have a question, but I would like to touch on the comments made just now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u117	Try to make a question out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u118	This is very much in favour of social service, but that aside. Actually, I'd like to make a point. I thought I heard Mr Van Dijk say that the SGP is for inequality and inequality between men and women. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. Those are caricatures that like to be spread. We have a way of putting that into practice. Okay, fine; you can agree with that or not, but the SGP declares itself basically for equality and equality between men and women. I hope that this is clear once and for all and that I do not need to come to the interrupting microphone again, to the anger of the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u119	You have clearly been able to highlight this point. Mr Van Dijk can respond and then I ask him to continue his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u120	Thank you. I find that very strange, because Mr Bishop is once again passionately saying that he is in favour of equality and equality between men and women, while his whole speech was aimed at saying that women should not be required to be on duty, and men should be. An explicit distinction between husband and wife was defended, so that's a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u122	Mr. Chairman. My question remains: what problem solves this law? The government even writes that reactivation of the turnout requires a different armed force, of which no blueprint is yet available. The government also states that the registration of young women creates a reservoir of trained soldiers that can be used in mobilization. However, this exercise is not yet in place, because at the time of the decision to re-enact the turnout obligation, further rules are laid down on its implementation and the Defence Department is preparing for the inspection, training and exercise of conscripts and for facilitating their commitment. Therefore, the number of conscripts needed or available for the next 10 years cannot be specified at present. The latter also depends on an unknown nature and extent of the threat. In short, Mr President, all kinds of questions about the usefulness and necessity of this law remain unanswered. From an emancipation point of view, I very much agree with this proposal, and I would also like to ask for a side-path on access to submarines for women. Can I get an update on that? However, from a defence point of view, we are in favour of a slim force. Then we are again very critical of this law, which would de facto lead to an extension of the armed forces. We are therefore going to await the Minister's reply. Finally, instead of military service, the SP would prefer to talk about a social service. He was already passing by. How's it coming with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u123	You came with this at the end of your contribution. I give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot, who wishes to put a question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u124	Apart from this extension of the framework law on conscription with the arrival of women, I have just heard Mr Van Dijk say that he is opposed to enlisting conscripts because this would be an extension of the armed forces. Then my question to Mr Van Dijk is: when would we, as a country, as a Chamber, as a government, re-enact the military service? In what situation would that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u125	In the situation that this is deemed necessary by the majority of politics. That could be in a crisis situation. It is very good that we are alert at that time and are going to have a good look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u126	Exactly. So in a crisis situation, when the water is on our lips and we can do nothing but defend our country, we call on men and women. The reasoning of the SP then is: no, we are not going to do that, because then the armed forces will become too big. That's what you just said. My question is again: do I understand correctly that, at the time when we have to defend our country, you are still advocating a smaller army?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u127	It's a bit of a wanted point from Mrs. Bruins Slot. By the way, three years ago, we had a debate on the reintroduction of military service, as I said, on the basis of Joram van Klaveren's note at the time, Member of the Netherlands. The CDA was not in favour of this, like all other parties. They wouldn't do that, and neither would we. This does not alter the fact that there can be a situation in which you say that we need a military force and now we need a re-establishment of military service. Then the next discussion is, do you want that for men and women? That is what this bill provides for at the moment. But let us be honest: at the moment it is not at all on the agenda. The argument of many parties was: we are not going to re-enter the service, because I need to think for a moment now, because it was also about the cost of the service, I think it would be about EUR 500 million. But I'm gonna check it out; I'm gonna keep that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u128	That'll hold you for the second term. Mrs Bruins Slot has the privilege of asking the last question in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u129	I didn't really get an answer to my question. I asked a clear question as to what Mr Van Dijk himself said. You yourself were the one who said: if we ever came to a reactivation of the military service, you yourself described this situation, then we would not be in favour of it, because that would cost money. My underlying question is then the following. At the moment when we find ourselves in this situation, we really are in a war situation or there is another danger or threat that is enormous. Then I wonder if the SP still reasons at such a time in the vein of: no, let us not employ people, because then the army becomes too big. That was the background to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u130	It's very hypothetical what Mrs. Bruins Slot says. We will, of course, assess that at that time. I'm sure I'll tell you that we disagree on what a crisis situation is. We often have debates about missions and whether or not we participate in missions. Your party is often very different from mine. So our position is: we are in favour of a leaner military force, which does not participate in unwise missions that have caused a great deal of suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time to move on to the Minister's response, but I shall suspend for three minutes so that anyone who wishes to do so can wash their hands. That applies, among other things, to your chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u132	Colleagues, the issue is the amendment of the Framework Law on conscription and of the Law on conscientious objection to military service in connection with the application of military service to women. We have just had the first term from the Chamber and are now going to listen to the answers the Minister is going to give to the various questions that have been put to her. Not everyone seems to be here yet, but I am sure that will happen very soon when the Minister speaks. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just assuming that, too. No matter who is present, I am simply giving the answers to the questions put, as it should be. Mr President, I would like to thank the Chamber for the opportunity to speak on this bill. With a large part of you, I think that we, the Defense Department, are defending important values, including constitutional values, when you look at what we do. I have also spoken to the members of your Chamber about this. We protect what is dear to us. One of these values is the equality of men and women. That is why I welcome the fact that we are discussing this with each other, a little more extensive than I might have thought. The equality of men and women is indeed a matter of principle, which has already been raised by the PvdA and D66. I just read that back. By adapting the framework law on conscription and the law on conscientious objection military service, this bill ensures that the conscription no longer covers only men but also women. That's what we're gonna do today. I liked the way Mrs. Bruins Slot said it. She looked back at the Colijn cabinet. She said that in 1939 it was discussed that it was "previously not the intention" to arrange it differently. But you could indeed foresee that it might one day come to that, is Mrs Bruins Slot's reasoning. That's why we're standing here today. It is true that the principle of equal treatment between men and women is more important than the somewhat artificial reasoning that has been used in the debate with the Chamber, Mrs Bruins Slot, on the backwardness of the labour market, which was followed at the time in 1995. You mentioned '97, but then we looked at '95, a year in which the employment rate was very different and the idea of men and women was also different. Luckily, the employment rate of women has increased. It may not be what the creature needs, but that is a completely different debate. Emancipation is also a very different debate. We're not gonna do that here. I would like to confine myself to what is ultimately stated in the legislative proposal, but I did not think that the reasoning at the time was so valid. That was also said by the Council of State on this bill. It is good that a different reasoning has now been chosen. In short, the bill states that Dutch, both men and women, are registered for compulsory service by the municipality in which they live in the year they reach the age of 17. All people, all Dutch are registered. That's how we need to see it. As you know, the provisions of the framework law on compulsory service, which are the basis of effective convocation and exercise of compulsory service, were suspended in 1997. That's what it was all about by me and also by Mrs Bruins Slot. I would therefore like to stress here that there is no question at all of ending the suspension of the right to vote. I saw that coming back somewhere, too. So this is not about reactivation of military service, but about constitutional equality that is being introduced. I'm attached to that, and many of you are just like me. Like Mrs Diks, I have noticed in the preparation that people apparently thought we were no longer in service. Despite the suspension of the right to vote, the compulsory service is still in force. So those letters are just sent out. Mr President, I think I can now turn to the answers to the questions put. I'm just gonna stop by the speakers in order of speaking. I have already indicated to Mrs Bruins Slot that I do not consider the distinction made at the time to be so justified. I would like to add the following. The Council of State stated that the imposition of the obligation should not be primarily linked to the socio-economic status of women. That's actually even stronger than I just said, improvisingly. I actually agree with that. In that sense, I agree with Mrs Bruins Slot, because this is a matter of principle. I think it is good to say that the explanatory statement on this point has also been amended. At the time, it was a reason not to impose the obligation on women. I'll leave that for what it was at the time. In any case, I think it is a reasoning that no longer pays off for modern society today, and a reasoning that should no longer apply. Mrs Bruins Slot then asked a number of questions. So how does it go if we have to call in unabated people? She asked a question about appealing to both parents or partners. I can assure you that both parents' calls are not on the agenda. When the compulsory service is activated, this will then be further regulated by a general measure of governance. You've seen all that, too. I will come back later to Mrs Diks' point. But summoning both parents won't be the issue. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked me if I could promise that when compulsory service is activated pregnant women will not be called in. I think pregnancy is always a reason for delay. At the time of the call pregnancy is a reason for delay. But also detailed rules for that whole postponement, exemption and exemption will be established when the service is activated. You've seen all that. That is not the case at the moment. But pregnant will certainly not be summoned as far as I am concerned. I can promise you that. And there will also be detailed rules for postponement for women with young children. But this applies equally to men with young children when it comes to partners. There will at least be a discussion about delay, because that would be about both partners. Those rules will then be drawn up on the basis of existing and existing insights. Mrs Bruins Slot also specifically asked what opportunities I see for a social service as set out in the coalition agreement. At the end of course this came back in Mr. Bishop's contribution. Mrs Bruins Slot said: this is also a great opportunity to introduce people to Defense and to develop talents. I have also had a different debate with the Chamber on this subject, for example when dealing with the budget. I can tell you that the Department of Defense intends to participate actively in the social service. I can make that very clear here. This is, of course, partly done by training young people through the VeVa programmes. But we are also looking at expanding internship opportunities, also by, for example, getting university students to gain work experience at Defense. That's what the Defence College was founded for. Some of you said that by getting young people to know Defence at a young age, we could be more interested in the important work we are doing. Yeah, I think so, too. We can so interest them in the values that I just started my story with. We can also strengthen the position of defence in the labour market. It is true that there is a working group at work at the moment. I believe it was also Mrs Bruins Slot who quoted my colleague, Secretary of State Blokhuis in this connection. We are also actively participating in this working group. I see many possibilities to do something with that, and also to show the formative side. In this connection, you also asked about the uniform ban. That point was also raised in the budget by you and other members of the Chamber. That's what I'm talking about, and I'll get back to you on that. The element of young people who relate to Defence and the importance that must be attached to it in this society can be clearly demonstrated in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u134	For that, too, the knife cuts both ways. On the one hand, Defense receives young people who may eventually opt for a career in Defense. On the other hand, it is a great opportunity for young people to learn how to work together, work on a team, but also to gain discipline and perseverance. The coalition agreement expressly states that organisations that participate should be taken care of as much as possible. Of course, Defence is also an organisation that currently has the necessary assignments. It is good to hear that Defense is now also actively participating in the working group of the Secretary of State of VWS. When does the Minister expect more clarity on the results of that working group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u135	I can't tell you that. Let me ask Mr Blokhuis. I don't know the answer to that right now. In any case, we attach great importance to it. Where we can start, we do; of course we already do the university college. So we are also trying to make real progress on a number of points. But I can't report that to you like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u136	I get it from the university college, but that's college students. I think an important group of young people are the vmbos, havists. Those are young people who find it interesting to see what Defence is like as an organization. When, for example, does the Minister expect the Chamber to be able to clarify in a letter how it will proceed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u137	I don't know if there's gonna be a second term right now. I heard about that. I will see if I can say anything about this before the second term. Otherwise, I will let you know in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u138	I do not rule out a short second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u139	Perhaps I could give that answer as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u140	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u141	Moreover, I agree with Mrs Bruins Slot that it is not just about those university students. I myself attach great importance, on the other hand, to showing values, to forming elements, to forming people so that they take responsibility in different areas. So this element often also applies to other types of pupils and students. Then Mrs. Diks...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u142	Minister, one second. Mrs Bruins Slot wishes to make a brief comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u143	Short comment, before I'm misunderstood. I think education is important for everyone. I sometimes feel that students need more training than young people who do certain other courses. Formation is of course important to every person, regardless of whether you are trained in practical or theoretical terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u144	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u145	Mrs. Bruins Slot, we've all heard you. The Minister continues her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u146	I couldn't say it any better. I think education is important for everyone. Mrs Diks started with Article 1, which she said could be celebrated. I'm sure that's true. I am still proud of the fact that we have the second oldest constitution in the world. That may also be said here once again. But that too is another debate. You have the amendment to item No. 7 on the heavy front, and you have devoted your speech to that. I have to be honest with you, I don't know if we need that heavy-duty suspension procedure when we activate the military service. I have two reasons for that. The proposal already provides for a light front-end procedure. In this way, the Court can always request a debate on the implementing regulation that is to come. A second reason is that activation of the military service just in case, before we do so, is associated with high costs and also with a very different way of working in the Defense Department. A number of people were just talking about training, shaping, clothing; all this must be arranged. If that were to be the case, it would never be possible to do so within the current Defence budget, because we will have to work very differently. That is what I, or any minister, should be discussing with the Chamber anyway, because you have the right to budget. Those are the two reasons why I think a conversation is always on the agenda. So we are talking about the light front-end procedure and the budget, which we should then have the discussion about. In itself, I think that the Chamber is well involved for these two reasons. But I also understand the position of the Chamber. I've been on the other side long enough. I should therefore like to leave the opinion on the amendment to the House, but I would like to add these comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u147	Mrs Diks, the amendment has already been qualified. I take note of that right away. Judgement is up to the Chamber. Now it's your turn to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u148	Yeah, all right. Thank you, Minister, for leaving the judgment to the Chamber. You state that, if the need is for a man, or for a woman, in this context, the Chamber must of course be able to have the discussion about this. But I'm not so interested in the conversation. I'm more interested in the perseverance power that the Chamber might have in a heavy front suspension procedure. That is the point we have always wanted to make. I understand very well that all of this actually seems terribly hypothetical today and that people are thinking: what are we really talking about? It is far from being discussed, thank God, I would almost say, precisely with the content of that word, as far as I am concerned. But what if it's at some point in time? Then, of course, the cabinet should not have the freedom to say: you then gave us the opportunity to arrange it in our view. Because that is actually what is being used with the light front suspension procedure. It should not be the case that today the Chamber is putting itself out of play by giving back or at least not holding back some of the tools that we had. That is what I wanted to do with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u149	I just heard Mrs Diks' explanation. I weigh it differently myself; I indicated that. I believe that these possibilities are also available in the light front suspension procedure. Then too, you can enter into the debate with any cabinet. But I've heard your reasoning. I have indicated that I think it is a different matter, but I have the opinion on the amendment to item No. 7 left to the Chamber. You wrote that down. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u150	One second. Mrs Bruins Slot also wants to ask a question on this point. I would ask you to do this briefly, Mrs Bruins Slot, because it is Mrs Diks' amendment. But you also had a dialogue on this with Mrs Diks, so I give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u151	In fact, this law already contains an extension to the current law. According to the current law, the Chamber would be informed afterwards. In 1997 we obviously satisfied ourselves with this as a State General. In this law, with the Minister's proposal, we can talk. Then it is also true that we, as a Chamber, can simply say that we do not agree with the AMvB and that we can also make proposals for amendments. We don't have to do that with a formal law. We can do that by way of a motion, or by making a number of proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u152	Sure. That's what I said. I have heard Mrs Diks' reasoning, but that is exactly my answer, Mrs Bruins Slot. It's already different than it was in 1997. I wondered what the reasoning would have been at that time, because I was on your side at that time. I can't bring her up anymore, but it's different now than it was back then. The light front suspension procedure is already in place. You can talk about it. You can request a debate on the implementing regulation, because that is what this is about. Then you can give any order you wish to give. Mrs Diks adds: I want to keep the heavy procedure open. 'Cause that's actually what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u153	And an amendment has been tabled on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u154	That's right. In part No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u155	... and that's what the "judge chamber" is for. I'm just saying that because Mrs. Diks is now also on the interrupting microphone. Is it done, Mrs. Diks? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u156	I am aware that Members of Parliament are not supposed to be discussing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u157	No, I don't want to allow that either. You still have a second term, in which you can try to do it, but perhaps that is not necessary at all. I ask the Minister to proceed with the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u158	Yes. I've arrived at Mrs. Belhaj's. I've already mentioned the special day. I'd already started. You mentioned the equality of men and women and the great role of more women. You have also mentioned a number of examples. You asked if the Netherlands in the EU could plead for a gender-neutral service, if I understand correctly. I'm afraid that's not possible. The armed forces, and hence the military service, are considered sovereign in the EU Member States. We have also talked about this on another occasion. The introduction of compulsory service is therefore not discussed at EU level either. However, in general terms, where possible, I will, of course, mention gender neutrality, but also the number of women in the armed forces and all the diversity. But that's the maximum that can happen. Perhaps it is good to say the following, because Mrs Belhaj also asked about the number of women. That percentage is just over 10%, as Mrs Bruins Slot said. You can do better than that. I read in Trouw an article that I can recommend to you all, entitled The Life Lessons of Christa Upper Beumer. I see a number of Members have read it. She was the first woman to go to the KMA in 1982 and also the first to graduate there. Last December, after serving 39 years, she retired. In that piece she says that role patterns are eventually there to be broken through by people themselves, by taking steps. I think that's important, too. We must also have enough women who want it. She also indicates in the piece, and I liked that, that the atmosphere was actually very good at the time. If you're just motivated and doing what you have to do, she said, you're gonna come a long way. I think she even said, "I won't let the piss make me lukewarm." That applies to men, and that applies to women in this case. You just have to do your job, and then you're gonna come a long way. I can answer Mrs Ploumen's question right away, because Christa Upper-Beumer has also said something about being a confidential person. She has been for thirteen years, and what improvements she has seen in it. There have actually been a lot of improvements, and if something is not going well, I will deal with it with the Secretary of State. Then we answered that question right. I've already answered the questions about pregnancy. Mrs Popken did not ask a real question. Mrs Becker also asked about the position of women. Indeed, in the Marine Corps, all functions are now open to men and women. This has been realized there since 1 January 2017. However, the selection and function requirements are the same for men and women. It is important to stress that again. Particular attention is also paid to the recruitment of women, with the intention of attracting larger numbers of women. The same goes for the positions in the Marine Corps. Recently, it has become public that at present one woman has passed the selection and is in training. In order for her to be able to do her education as much as possible, we will not pay any attention to that, but I hope, of course, that she will soon be the first female marine graduate. When the time comes, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. Mrs Becker also asked why delays, exemptions and exemptions are not immediately regulated by the law. That won't be necessary. Basically, we're just following the normal conscript law. When the time comes, we can make adjustments via the just mentioned AMvB, which regulates a number of things. We can talk about that, too. I have answered the question of whether all posts are open to women. So we are also recruiting very specifically. Perhaps you yourself could be there because there are a lot of women here who are also a bit of an ambassador in recruiting women to the Defense Department. I have therefore answered Mrs Becker's questions. Mrs Ploumen asked about culture. I just said something about that. I didn't quote Christa Uppers' article for nothing. There must be a safe culture and working environment for men and women; what you are doesn't matter at all. That is the starting point for all recruitment plans and efforts for women and men. Everyone can apply and all functions are open. We know a culture in which talents are appreciated regardless of the background of people. That's what I really experience in my first months. If something goes wrong, it has to be dealt with. There is no misunderstanding about this, and this has also been discussed with the Secretary of State in the context of a number of matters which I would simply like to make as an abuse. On the basis of the motions submitted to the budget, work is being carried out on the policy plan diversity and inclusiveness. Mrs Belhaj then tabled a motion. I hope that we will be able to send that to the Chamber in March or April. I have already dealt with the grounds for exemption, and I have already paid attention to equal treatment. Mr Bishop specifically asked about the usefulness of the bill if the turnout is not to take place. Of course, I don't have a glass ball like him. I cannot rule out the possibility that there is a territorial threat which is becoming so great that the activation of the right to vote is necessary. That is also the reasoning that Mrs Bruins Slot and Mrs Popken had. In that case, men and women are both needed. They're equally capable of defending our country. That is how I look at it and that is also the reasoning contained in the bill. I think this is a very plausible argument. I notice in the daily work that women sometimes have added value, for example during broadcasts. I've talked to the Chamber about that before. Of course, they're all professional soldiers, so people have chosen for them. In the performance of most of the positions in the Defense Department, the gender does not matter. But in a number of cases it is important to have women as well. For example, women in countries like Afghanistan can be better approached by female soldiers. So it is important to have enough women in our army. Also, local women will rather confide in female soldiers when it comes to sharing sensitive information. This has very positive effects and effects on the effectiveness of operations. So sometimes it matters if someone is a man or a woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u159	Mr Bishop is going to ask you another question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u160	I'd like to put my finger on that. Those are people who chose to do that. That is precisely the crucial distinction. This bill is about an obligation that girls don't choose. A second comment is that this legislative proposal concerns territorial defence and is therefore not about broadcasting. In that sense, it is not quite comparable. I believe that other qualifications are needed for one and the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u161	Sure. Mr Bishop is right that this is not entirely true, but I just wanted to point out that diversity of our workforce is an important element. I fully agree with him that this is about the obligation. We just think differently about that. Mr Van Dijk mentioned it just like he did: why are we coming up with this proposal now? That was one of his questions, too. It is indeed a proposal that has long been under preparation. In the legislative consultation Staff on 2 November 2015, the Chamber asked what is necessary for the framework law to apply to women as well. In a letter dated 2 February 2016, which you could all read, it was said that the bill would be prepared for this. There has been an internet consultation and today we are completing it. So it's been an ongoing process, but you can weigh it differently, that's everyone's right. I do not have any information, I say in the direction of Mr Bishop, about the positive or negative experiences in Israel or China he asked about. I don't know him. I don't have that information. I have already given Mrs Bruins Slot the answer about two parents. That's not gonna happen. That will be included in the rules on postponement and exemption. If a woman can be given the choice of voluntary social service instead of military service, you also asked. That is not possible, because that is in principle contrary to the principle of equal treatment between men and women. You can weigh this differently, but we consider it important that there is equal treatment, which is why this bill is there. The bill is not combined with a proposal for social service or service, as stated in the government agreement, because it would entail an obligation. You asked for that very explicitly. In the light of Article 4 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Article 8 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, this is considered to be forced labour and is therefore not allowed; therefore, a voluntary form has been chosen. I have indicated to Mrs Bruins Slot how active we have been in this area, because I am very keen that this is to be dealt with quickly. In the meantime, I have received an answer to the question as to when the results of the social service can be expected. That was just handed to me. An interdepartmental working group has been set up. We're part of that. A working conference with municipalities, provinces, civil society organisations and young people will be held next week. I have no idea if the Chamber is welcome there, but it could be. We are talking about the practical implementation of social service and about the ongoing and new initiatives. As a defence officer, we are represented and we are involved in this, but it is too early to say when exactly that results. It is now being built from the bottom up by colleague Blokhuis. That is the answer; then we will no longer have to do so in the second term. Mr Van Dijk has made a full speech on how he looks at the bill, as former spokesman for Defence and as current spokesman for Emancipation. I am less concerned with that at this time, but I have also done so on occasion. He considers equal pay for men and women to be more important than compulsory service. I would say that both are important, because with this law we contribute to part of the desired equality. We already have fair wages for equal work in the Defense Department, but I fully agree with him that there is still a shortage of women. Where it needs to be disposed of, that will have to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u162	Mr Van Dijk wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u163	That last sentence is interesting. You said we already have equal pay in the defense. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u164	Yes. At the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u165	In the case of equal work, are men and women within the armed forces paid in full equal pay? You can guarantee that one hundred percent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u166	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u167	The answer is yes. A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u168	That's a clear answer. In this respect, the armed forces are an example for the rest of the country, where women's backwardness is enormous. Something really needs to be done about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u169	That's noted, but that's up to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u170	That's what I was about to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u171	Please continue with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u172	I think this was the last answer I had to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u173	You have thus come to the end of your first term, in which you have answered the questions of the members of the House of Representatives. Is there a need for a second term? There is, because Mrs Bruins Slot is already ready for that. I'll give her the floor right away. I would ask colleagues to minimize speaking time, because there will be another debate after this and there will still be food to eat. Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u174	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The CDA supports the legislative proposal, also on the basis of the argument of the Council of State, the constitutional aspect. In my first term I indicated that this is a long discussion, starting from 1939, from the fourth cabinet of Colijn. But you know that, there is always someone who can do a little bit more, so here is a quote from the General Handelsblad of 8 March 1905, about the relationship between military service and the right to vote: "Lately there has been a lot of talk about the year of service of women. Especially in connection with women's right to vote, the old stickhorse regularly reappears that the woman has no right to speak in elections as long as she is outside the defence of the homeland." In other words, because the woman does not serve in the army and goes to war, she has no right to interfere with the administration of the State or the congregation. So we did regulate the women's right, but not the conscription. So that discussion was even held around that time. That's how I learn in such a debate. This law has a highly symbolic character. I've heard several colleagues say it. However, it cannot be ruled out, as the Minister said, that one day, as a country, we will find ourselves in a situation in which we will have to reactivate the military service. It will not always be the case, as I say to Mrs Diks, that we see it coming one and a half years in advance. It may well be that we are surprised by the circumstances and the speed with which things are happening. This bill stipulates that the House of Representatives, from a position of backwardness, in which we were not allowed to talk at all about grounds for exemption, will come into a situation in which we will be informed in advance per AMvB. I think that's a win. What I also find to be profitable is that this involves speed of action. As a Chamber you can consult directly and immediately indicate changes. You can also immediately make sure that it is reworded. If we follow the path of Mrs Diks' proposal, we will find ourselves in a situation where, for example, we have to adopt a law in a formal sense. And then we'll be a year away. I would like to point out that the CDA is not looking favourably at Mrs Diks' amendment at the moment. Mr President, last but not least, because you said it had to be done quickly. I would like to thank the Minister for her clear answers on social service. The CDA thinks it's very important that defense participates. The knife cuts both ways: defence can attract many young people who are interested in defence and young people can learn from defence. If you learn something to work well together, discipline and perseverance, it's there. Therefore, the CDA will actively follow the further design of this and will follow how defence intends to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u175	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. Mrs. Diks, would you like to say something? That's the case. It is also up to you to keep your speaking time short, given the follow-up to the evening. I call Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is a little unfortunate that Mrs Bruins Slot has already twice made a kind of caricature of my amendment by saying that the drafting of a law must necessarily last one and a half years. Why should the Chambers, in their minds and not upset, give themselves less possibilities than is possible? I have just indicated that I understand very well that it is provisional and hopefully hypothetical forever, but it can happen. Of course, we may be attacked suddenly. Then everything is different, because then we come into a situation of "emergency breaks the law," but then too we have regulations to make emergency laws and to act with each other very quickly. You always interpret my amendment as 'if we adopt this law, we will start writing the AMvB next Wednesday'. That is simply not the case. That's not the issue at all. I am therefore sorry that you are putting it so hard, when I am actually trying to give the Chamber all the possibilities that there are. Do not use it as a chamber for the next twenty years: so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u177	Mrs. Bruins Slot. Then I would like to conclude, because you have already discussed this on a number of occasions and we do not need to repeat that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u178	I always appreciate the fact that colleagues are tabling an amendment, because that means that they have prepared very well for the law and have looked at what else they would like to do. So the word "caricature"? Of course not! But I am looking closely at the objective of the amendment. What the CDA considers important is that the Chamber can at least take full part in its decision. This can also be done in the form that has now been chosen. That is what I wanted to say, because Mrs Diks said 'caricature' and of course I would never put Mrs Diks on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u179	That's what we've heard now. Mrs Diks, continue with your contribution, because you are almost as far as you were in the initial speaking time in the first period. That's not exactly what you're supposed to do, so keep going!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u180	But you must also bear in mind that I initially had ten minutes, of which I only used three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u181	Yeah, but not in the end, and I'm assuming the ultimate time. But continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u182	So I would like to say once again that I am in favour of the amendment. I would like to ask my colleagues to take a closer look at this, especially because it describes a future situation, which we do not really understand today. I would, of course, like to express my thanks to the Minister for his reply. From GroenLinks, too, I would like to say that I am very positive about the fact that the service is now also being provided for women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u183	Thank you, Mrs Diks. Let's see, does Mrs. Belhaj want to speak on behalf of D66? Yeah, I see her nodding. Then I hear her say she only needs five minutes. Two minutes is the idea, with a small run if needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u184	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for her reflection on what we have all reflected in our own way on this important legislative amendment. I realize that there has been a spicy debate, and I think that is a good thing. I therefore also appreciate the presence of the SGP and their willingness to explain here in this Chamber why they are in favour of this amendment. I also assume, somewhere else, that the SGP is the only party that does not agree to this legislative amendment. I am assuming that all the other parties who are not here today would have bothered to explain here and to have them recorded in the minutes why they decided to do so, so that those who once wanted to write a thesis on this could also find out exactly what the argument behind it was. Mr. Chairman. Today is a special day, initiated by D66 and PvdA, but with the help of all political parties, of the previous and current minister and of many officials who have done their best to settle a very important point of principle for me also for Defence once and for all. I secretly hope that today's legislative amendment will be the last to ensure that women are treated equally, in accordance with the Constitution and thus in accordance with the law we have faithfully promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u185	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. Mrs Popken has indicated that she will waive her second term. Mrs. Becker is doing the same thing. Then it's Mrs Ploumen's turn. She'll get the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u186	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Thank you also for her answer to Mr Van Dijk's question, namely that there will be equal pay within the Ministry of Defence. It can be assured that Mr Van Dijk and I will continue to monitor this closely together and that, if we submit our own initiative law, we hope that the defence sector can be set as an example. Mr. Chairman. It's an important change of law. Besides brother- now there's sister service. It is good that Article 1 of the Constitution now extends to all areas of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u187	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I call Mr Bishop, who is also the last speaker, because Mr Van Dijk has indicated that he will waive his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u188	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I would also like to thank Mr Belhaj for her words of appreciation. This is the gremium, the arena in which you have these kinds of debates. Then it is good to make it clear that you are deeply disagreed. That's basic to democracy. I end with my deep sadness and sadness to say that with this bill, the House of Representatives is going to miss such a great, great opportunity for a social service because it is one-sidedly focused on military service for girls. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u189	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I see that it is possible for the Minister to reply immediately to the questions that have been asked, as far as they were there. I tried to keep track: there weren't many of them. I call the Minister for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u190	Mr. Chairman. I would simply like to thank Members for their input and their support, because I did not raise any explicit questions in my direction in the second term. I've all answered the first-term questions. I do think it is important that this equal treatment is now achieved. That can be considered differently. I respect that, of course, but I think we are taking an important step here today. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u191	Thank you. We have come to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-23.u192	The vote on the law and the amendment are scheduled for next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting for 45 minutes before dinner, after which the Chamber will continue to meet on the following subject.
