ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	The questions from Mr de Graaf van de PVV to the Minister for Justice and Security are now on the agenda about the message "30 asylum seekers in the Netherlands with an 'IS passport'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of the asylum seekers entering the Netherlands, 63% have no papers. They're undocumented. This means that we don't know who they are of nearly 70,000 people who entered the Netherlands through the asylum stream in 2014, 2015 and 2016. Two thirds of them can stay. Those are huge numbers. That's what tens of thousands of unknown, potentially dangerous, mostly Islamic, foreigners see. In that light, last weekend's news is taking place, on which I have based these questions. In 2015 and 2016, 30 people entered the Netherlands with a so-called IS passport. That's a stolen passport with a name filled out afterwards. That is exactly the way in which two of the mass murderers of Bataclan Europe, among others, have entered. And it is well known that Islamic State has deliberately used this route to station terrorists on European territory to do their terrible work there. But that picture also includes the fact that in the Netherlands we already have thousands of jihad sympathists who, according to the AIVD, can become dangerous in the short term. In the rest of Europe, there are tens of thousands of people who can travel freely in the Schengen area. So they can come here, too. Then I'll come to my questions. How many of the 30 cases in the newspaper are known in the rest of the Schengen area, whether or not they are considered dangerous? The second question. How has it been verified internationally that these people are indeed harmless? How can the police claim that there is no objection to this 30? How do we know there is no objection to the tens of thousands of others? If the terrorist who showed up in De Balie last year is already costing so much manpower from the AIVD and the other services to prosecute him, how can we be sure that those tens of thousands of strangers are not endangering our security? Then the last question in the first term. Is the attacker of the Jewish restaurant in Amsterdam perhaps one of the 30 in the article?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I think Mr De Graaf knows this too, because I know his concerns that the services, but also this cabinet and I personally have a great deal of attention to this problem and that we are extremely vigilant about it. I reported in my letter of 29 January 2018 to you that additional checks will take place if the IND suspects that a Syrian passport has been stolen and is part of a series of passports that may be used by jihadist groups such as ISIS or Al-Qaeda. As you can see, these extra checks work. Passports have been identified and research has been carried out. In 2015 and 2016, the IND conducted investigations into the use of these passports in foreign legal proceedings. The 30 or so persons who have been found to have used such a passport have been submitted to the AIVD and the police, who, I say immediately in reply to your second question, have, of course, checked internationally through the procedures they have used. As a result, the IND did not receive a notice of office indicating that there was a person in that group who was a danger to national security which allowed the residence permit to be revoked. Closing the borders, as you suggest, is not a solution. Let me say first of all that this cabinet does not choose to close the Dutch borders. That is practically not possible or desirable, even if it was only in view of an important part of our economy. Moreover, we are open to international agreements. This creates rights and creates obligations. What we are doing to keep migration manageable as much as possible is addressing the root causes, making migration agreements with third countries and also, last Wednesday, Mr De Graaf and I discussed this issue, legislation on how to deal with potential suspects of terrorist activities: better measures that go beyond communal criminal law. I would like to stress once again that, in general, if there are signs that someone may be a danger to national security, the search and intelligence services will do everything possible to eliminate that danger. I fully understand Mr De Graaf's concerns, which I am not concerned about, but precisely because of the handling of such an individual case, in order to ensure that it goes as well as possible, even in the interests of detection and prosecution, I cannot make any statement on individual matters. That is a well-known criterion. I would like to emphasise that once again, because that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	Those 30 have indeed taken a lot of time and work, I understand. In fact, I think it is a good thing from the Minister that he has already answered a question that has not been asked, but okay, fine. That is a question we often ask. The attack on the Jewish restaurant may have been an individual case, but we are talking about 30 people already. I also said that tens of thousands of others have entered the Netherlands over the last three years, and we do not know who they are. We just don't know who they are. That is why the Minister's answers are not reassuring to me, but rather alarming. We have those open borders and there are plenty of people, lots of people, who come into our country with evil Islamic intentions. On the other hand, however, I am not surprised that the Minister gives these answers, because, given Islamic terrorism, he is rather naive. He doesn't know, as he said last week, how Islam is putting together, when that is the biggest threat. Again, he doesn't know anything about Islam. He said that this week, but he is responsible for the safety of the Netherlands. Then I come to my follow-up questions. In the light of what we are discussing, how does the Minister assess the reportage that we can see on the Internet from the journalist Zvi Jecheskeli? He went undercover with a fake Syrian passport. It was a fake Syrian passport; so it's about the same story. The advice he received from German aid workers is shocking: they quickly managed to arrange a benefit for him and he was advised to let his whole family come across quickly. His quote is: "One false passport is enough to bring an entire clan here." That is Germany; these are open borders. Of course, you may wonder who is a member of those many clans who have been proven to enter Europe in this way and who can also come to the Netherlands with those open borders. This brings me to my final questions to this Minister; I have 20 seconds left. If the Minister is serious about the safety of the Netherlands, he says he is serious, but then more needs to be done. Is he still prepared to close the borders for asylum seekers and immigration from Islamic countries and also to establish a system of administrative detention, as we have proposed in the meantime? That is the question in response to his answer in the first term. The last question: is the Minister prepared to use a policy of de-Islamicisation, or should he first study the sources, as it turned out the week? My final point is this: as a result of these open borders, which are assumed to be so and so because we have agreed to do so, and by not taking the measures I have just mentioned...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. De Graaf, would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'm getting to my last sentence, Mr. Chairman, I really am. If something happens in the Netherlands, then the whole of the Netherlands knows by now which minister could have prevented anything from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	Madam President. I would like to point out through you, in the direction of Mr De Graaf, that I am not a German aid worker. I am the Dutch Minister of Justice and Security. I would like to emphasise that I am committed to the fact that our services are making a real maximum effort to find out the identity of people, where they can, and also to ensure that there is a safe influx. But I am also saying very clearly that, in the context of the fact that we cannot close the borders, my first term is, in the end, simply about the quality of our intelligence services and, of course, the other judicial services. The second point is that I am not aware of the fact that I would not have consulted the sources on the problems raised by Mr De Graaf. He and I disagree. I believe that, in the context of monitoring the flow of asylum seekers, there can be no such thing as de-Islamicisation of the Netherlands. This would do a great deal of injustice to a large number of people living in the Netherlands who adhere to the Islamic faith and who are very good Dutch citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. There are no follow-up questions.
