ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of Mr Van Nispen's own-initiative proposal to amend, inter alia, the Compatibility Act 2016 in order to establish a clear separation between the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security and that of the Council for Justice (34618). I would like to welcome Mr Van Nispen. He is supported in the defense of his proposal in box K by Christel Wiskerke and Mike van Heumen, both party member of the SP. Welcome, too. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term of office took place on 24 January. Today we are discussing first-term and second-term responses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen for his answers to the first-term questions. I call Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the questions posed by this law, it is most appropriate to thank the people who have contributed to its creation. I won't name all the advisors, but Christel Wiskerke and Mike van Heumen, who are behind me, deserve a very big compliment. I would also like to thank the spokesmen who spoke in the first term. Thank you very much for the compliments. Sometimes these compliments related to the content of this law, but some compliments only referred to the fact that I had taken the trouble to draw up an initiative law. In that case, I would also like to thank you for the critical questions that followed this remark. I will answer these questions as best I can. First of all, I will briefly comment on recent history and then I will quickly come to the most frequently asked question, namely that of usefulness and necessity, the question of why. Why did I put forward this proposal? I will also address the question of whether this bill is the solution to all the problems of justice. I would point out that the answer to this question will be 'no'. At the end of my first answer, I hope to have answered all the questions raised by the various groups. If that is not the case, I will of course hear it from you. I'll start with history. I do not go back as far in time as the spokesperson of the SP, who also spoke on behalf of GroenLinks, did. But I am grateful to make use of that today by referring to it. For yes, the starting point of our separation of powers is indeed that power should not rest with one and the same. So says Montesquieu. In a democratic rule of law there is a division of power between legislative, executive and judicial powers. Those tasks should not lie in one hand, but should be spread out in order to balance each other. It also raises the question of how to ensure the financing of the third state power, the case law, and to what extent the case-law for the granting of financial resources should depend on the other state powers. It is important that the financing of the case-law takes place objectively, as independent as possible from other state powers. The idea that justice should have a separate budget is not new. For example, we came across a publication from 1986, by Professor C.J.H. Brunner in the Dutch Juristenblad, in which he already advocates a separate budget for justice. There has been more discussion over the years about this question. The law of the Law on the Judicial Organisation in 2001 was not adopted at the time, but there was extensive talk about ensuring the best possible independent funding, in order to strengthen the institutional independence of the judiciary. The discussion on the positioning of the case law and the budget has remained and actually re-launched again, especially when the General Court in 2016 revealed that the incentive payment system is no longer being implemented as intended, the Q, multiplied by the agreed price, since 2010. That is why I have chosen to draw attention to this in the review of the Compatibility Act in 2016. As I said, I'm still working on the piece on recent history. In 2016, therefore, the treatment of that Compatibility Act was carried out. At that time, the Election Board was added to the list of colleges which have a separate, non-departmental budget. In addition to the High Colleges of State, i.e. the State General, the Council of State, the General Court of Auditors and the National Ombudsman, the Cabinet of the King and the Supervisory Board of the Intelligence and Security Services already have a separate budget. To this end, the Election Council was added to the Compatibility Act in 2016. At that time, the SP already tried to make an amendment to ensure that justice would also have its own non-departmental budget. That is exactly the subject of this debate. The SP amendment was then supported by the Animal Party, GroenLinks, 50PLUS, the Kuzu/Öztürk Group as it was then called, the SGP and the PVV. The amendment was even co-signed by D66 and the Christian Union, among others. This is important to mention in this context. This amendment is not only suspiciously similar to this bill; in fact, it is the same proposal. Then why do we choose to table this same proposal again? The same question was asked. One of the reasons for the fact that this amendment did not reach a majority at the time was that it was said to us at the time that the legislative proposal, the pending amendment to the Compatibility Act, meant something else. And to consider the case law as a non-departmental budget would require a separate legislative process. We have addressed these criticisms, and so we have tabled this initiative law, which we are discussing today. But when I look at the support and enthusiasm for that amendment at the time, combined with the fact that little has actually changed in substance, I have good hope that a majority will support the proposal this time. That seems very sensible to me. Before I explain what the real importance of this proposal is, I would like to say the following. Although the question is not actually put in a literal way, it is important to deal with it, namely: what does this law not regulate? This law does not provide that there will be no further savings in the case-law. I agree with Mr Markuszower, among others, that cuts in government budgets should not always be bad, because taxpayers' money must be spent carefully. I agree, but that's not what this law's gonna do. Justice is not immune to austerity. This law does not regulate that anything changes in the relations between Chamber and Government. Parliament has the final say on the budget of justice, including this proposal. Nor does that law provide for a change in the financing system of the case-law. The P, the price, is being negotiated and the number of cases, the Q, is rolling out of the system. The financing of the case law is the P, the price, times the Q, the number of cases. It's gonna stay that way. That agreement should provide objective funding. It provides the best guarantee for the starting point that justice should be given the budget needed to get things done in a good way. But this has not always been the case in recent years, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out. As a very concrete example, I can refer to the last budget of the Ministry, the budget for the year 2018. It literally states that the expected influx of cases is not fully financed, i.e. that it is about the Q debt because of the financial possibilities of the cabinet; page 47 of the explanatory memorandum. In addition, a task-setting saving is also made on the case law to cover other financial problems; pages 148 and 154 of the budget explanatory memorandum. This shows an example in which the agreed funding, PxQ, is not respected, so that it does not go as the rules actually prescribe. Although this fact, which does not finance the case law according to the principles, can be seen as a direct reason for this proposal, it is not the main reason, not the main argument, because that is what I come up with: the why-do-you-do-you-do question. I shall first deal with the principle, then with independence and then with the practical consequences. First of all, the principle. Justice is our third state power. The way in which the budget of justice is currently part of the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security does not adequately reflect the independent position of the third state power. A separate budget is more purer. The Minister has also acknowledged that a separate budget, more than it is now, reflects the special position of the case law in the state system. "However, the special position of the case-law justifies the guarantee that the Court of Justice can always speak independently. The case-law cannot and should not be regarded as an implementing body." So the Minister said earlier on. The fact that the case-law at the time, in 2002, did not receive a budget of its own in the revision of the Law on the Judicial Organisation, can actually be regarded as a looming error, according to the President of the Court of Justice. I think it's time to fix that, and that opportunity is ahead of us now. Like the National Ombudsman, the Election Council, the General Court of Auditors and the Council of State, case law as third state power should also have a separate budget. Is this a symbol now? Mrs Kuik actually said it very nicely, by raising a question: you can say that it is a symbol, but is that symbol so important that it deserves such a separate status? Then she answered the question herself by saying that symbols are sometimes very important. I myself prefer to speak of the principle: the principle that the independent position of the judiciary implies that its own non-departmental budget is justified, because it cannot be treated as an executive body of the ministry or may have the appearance of it. But I also understand that several spokesmen call it a symbol. I get that. But not a symbol without practical and concrete consequences, if you ask me. Mr Markuszower hoped that this bill would make the costs of justice more transparent and finance more objective. I agree with him. At least it's the thought behind this bill. Mr Markuszower asked to explain why the independence of justice is better guaranteed in this proposal. That brings me to the second argument for this bill. So after the principle, I now come to the second argument: independence. Mr Van Dam also asked for independence. Indeed, he primarily oversees the work of the judges: independent judgment pointing out is paramount. We share that opinion. That is what independence is about, but that cannot be completely separated from shaping the process and that is influenced by the corporate and management direction of justice. In principle, a judge should decide how a case is to be dealt with, both with regard to its content and with regard to the proceedings. If the pressure on the trial does not allow a judge to decide for himself how a case is dealt with, the question can be asked as to its impact on quality, but also on independence. Legal decisions should depend on substantive considerations, not on considerations related to production pressure. But that happens now and then, because decisions such as the retention of cases, the hearing of witnesses and experts and the taking of intermediate decisions sometimes take a different form in practice under pressure from production than would be desirable solely on the basis of the legal arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u4	I have a quick question. If the initiator, Mr Van Nispen, now says that sometimes judgements are in fact different as a result of the system as we know it now, he actually claims that there are judges in this country who point to a different judgment in substance than they might have to when it comes to the assessment of the case. Is that a fix or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u5	I just said something else. What I said was that independence relates to the content and to the process. What happens now and then is that judges are familiar with it because of the production pressure, because of the overcrowded timetables, Mr Van Oosten is probably familiar with it and I have seen it again recently on work visits sometimes as very complicated to choose to hold a case to hear additional witnesses and experts. For example, sometimes what would be desirable is not done solely on the basis of the legal arguments, but a different choice is made. I am not saying that the content is very different, but that the process is designed differently. Whether or not a different decision would then have been taken in substance if things had gone differently, I cannot say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u6	No. It's a good thing we're establishing that with each other. When we talk about the independence of the judiciary, I think it is equally dear to both of us that politics, that this house, does not interfere with the content of the sentence. Each time the term "independence" is placed in conjunction with the proposal, suggests that independence is at stake. That suggests that there are judges who say, "God, I'm not pointing out the verdict that I actually think is right because the funding of justice would be a wrong one. I think that's a wrong, almost false performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u7	No, I'd like to nuance that. I have no indication that the independent award, the content of the judgment, would be in dispute. Indeed, we must be very careful and very careful about this. But the same applies to the pressure: the pressure that judges experience on the calendars, the pressure that judges experience not to shape the process as they would really like, purely on the basis of the legal and substantive arguments. This, too, ultimately leads to risks to independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u9	Judges point out that the assessment of the time required for hearings is out of the hands of the judge and that the possibilities for settling the case are limited as they see fit. This is why it can be said that independence is at stake. This has been discussed repeatedly in the past by judges, for example by the group of judges of the Leeuwarder manifesto several years ago, by the group of judges of Opposite Light, who conducted the large survey among judges. The Council has also repeatedly stated in its case-law that the limits have been reached. See also the opinion article of the President of the Council for the case-law, Mr Bakker, in the Official Journal online, in which he calls on the Court to ensure a separate budget for the case-law, because the case-law should not be a lockpoint. The financing of the case-law must be independent and impartial, as must the judgment of the court. And today we read the appeal of the judges in the Volkskrant, that this proposal is an opportunity to ensure a stronger rule of law and to do more justice to the trias politicians. Mr Van Oosten was very firm in his first term. He said: there is no problem, so this bill is not a solution either; the independence of the judiciary is not at all at stake. We just had an interrupting debate on this, and I say it again: I do not think Mr Van Oosten is right. First of all, because there is a problem; I refer to the debate on the workload of judges. Last time I went to work, I took a look at a judge's schedule myself. At a court hearing that lasts an entire morning, every ten minutes, a new case comes up. Every time a man has a story of his own. Every time a human being needs to be comforted. In itself, that's not the problem. The judges know how to deal with that. The problem is that these hearings always end; that is annoying for the people, but those judges do so in their own time. But that workload is determined by the time that judges get to deal with the case. That time is based on the budget made available to the judiciary by politics. It certainly affects the independence of the judges if the tight budgets influence their decisions, also by the way in which the trials are conducted, for example if a case is dismissed while keeping the case and hearing additional witnesses would actually be better. The pressure on business formation leads to tight schedules, which allow little room to hear, for example, witnesses or experts. That is how an individual judge is affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u10	My first term shows that I am not such a huge supporter of the respected initiative that Mr Van Nispen is bringing to the Chamber. All the examples you mention relate to the amount of budget available. As far as I am concerned, these examples have nothing whatsoever to do with the need to have an independent or an independent budget, because even then you may be short of money. In fact, all these standards about how long you've been sitting, the justice system has developed itself. How do you see all the developments now? Justice is also in a chain, civil law, with child protection, and I do not know what. It also happens in chains in criminal law. Think of ICT as well. These are arguments for me not to make them independent, but to leave them embedded, also in management, in the situation as it is today. Could you reflect on what is the opposite of your proposal in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u11	I know these concerns of Mr Van Dam. He has already expressed this in a round table on, among other things, the administrative chain council. My response to this is that, if we finance the justice system as we have agreed, PxQ, agreed price times the number of cases that come out of the system, there will be an amount of money. If we were to comply with that, then that has not happened properly in recent years since 2010, and I have just given an example of this, and the Court of Auditors has also revealed this fact, and it is better to ensure that justice is given the amount that is needed. This will become more transparent and insightful if we separate the budget. If we manage the funding properly as we have agreed, then that is the PxQ, then at least the budget for the justice system is as we have agreed. That is why there is more scope for coordination in the chain, whether with the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the police or with the Council for the Protection of the Child. So it is not necessary to separate that budget from that cooperation at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u12	The examples mentioned by Mr Van Nispen I also recognize from my own practice, but there are also examples of people who have to work hard because there are too few people in the care sector, the police and so on. We are not now proposing to organise a separate budget for this. So I am really looking for the argument why we need to do that now. We fully agree on the importance of the independence of justice and the amount of money. I've harassed the minister before about the deficits that exist. I hope he will come forward with a proposal on this at a later date. But I'd love to hear some more content. What is your proposal going to change in that respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u13	I acknowledge to Mr Van Dam of the CDA that this bill is not going to ensure that extra money goes to justice. At least, I'm gonna have to nuance that a little bit. I'll get back to you on that, if that's all right with you. It is then about the targets that are still falling down on the entire ministry. There would then be a separate justification for the case-law. But this bill in itself does not create an extra budget for justice. It does, however, ensure that we get the budget of justice separately with Princess Day, that it becomes more transparent and transparent and that we can therefore check precisely whether the agreed funding is being respected as we all want. We can then have a debate on that here. So that makes it more insightful. We can then discuss whether the justice system is getting enough money, what about all the wishes we all have, what about own funds, whether we are going to organise judges in the neighborhood, whether the justice system can work together with the Children's Protection Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We can then all discuss this in this separate budget debate. I am particularly concerned about the principle. I have gone into this in detail. If Mr Van Dam asks how this bill is going to solve all the problems, then I must say that I am not saying so. However, I say that a separate budget makes it more transparent and comprehensible how the budget for justice has been built and how we ensure a high-quality and timely justice. But a separate budget also does more justice to the independent position of our third state power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u14	I have a question for Mr Van Nispen. He has now said a few times that the importance for him is that it should become more transparent, but then he keeps saying that it is already very clear, and as far as I am concerned, transparent, that the agreements have not been met in a number of respects, to this PxQ. If we have all this clarity now, what is the extra transparency he intends to achieve with his legislative proposal? Can he explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u15	That is a fair question from Mr Grothuizen. If you are going to spend three days with a magnifying glass on the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security and then ignore the Council's proposed budget for justice, it is indeed now possible to examine precisely whether the agreed funding for justice is being dealt with exactly. But if we look at the budgetary discussions over the past few years, we have to acknowledge with each other that Mr Groothuizen will agree with me that justice has fallen short of that. We have a general discussion on the case law about about once a year, but then it is also about the digitalisation system KEI, which has everything to say about, or for example about a shortage of judges in the northern Netherlands. It is about everything and everything and also about the concerns of your and my group about the budget. However, to make sure that funding is respected as we have agreed, it would be very good to have that budget put forward separately and then hold a separate debate on it. I really believe that this will improve transparency and transparency, so that the House of Representatives can better carry out its supervisory task and we can all monitor whether justice is given the resources that are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u16	I'm gonna keep wrestling. It seems that Mr Van Nispen is going from transparency to legibility, because it would not be so clear, but that he is still saying: it is clear to me that things have not gone well in the budget in recent years, and I believe that my proposal will solve that. Well, I guess that's the thesis. I still don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u17	Well, that's complicated, 'cause now I'm wearing two hats. As spokesperson for the SP, I will indeed say that I think, and that I also hear from practice, that there are serious concerns about justice and that we need to do something about the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u18	But that's not why I'm standing here today. Today, I am particularly in favour of the principle, namely that justice as a third state power should have a separate budget, because it does more justice to its independent position. And yes, this will also make it easier to understand whether the PxQ funding system we agreed on will also be respected. It also means that a separate justification must be found when a minister proposes in the future, for example, to set down a task on justice, for example a 10% cut, or to invest extra in it. For example, in the future, we can move towards socially effective justice, as we wish. It therefore leads to an insightful budget. It will become more readable and more transparent. If you try very hard, you can find those differences now. You will hear from the sounds of practice and from the workplace of course also from judges who say: "I only have 20 minutes before the removal of a child" or "I only have 30 minutes to assess a single abuse and also to do justice to the interests of victims." Unfortunately, we do not solve this all at once with this legislative proposal, but we will be able to see how the budget has been built up, we will be able to debate it separately, and we will be able to better assess whether the justice system will receive the resources that are needed. That is precisely what the Council points out for the case-law. The independence of justice is under pressure, and hence the quality of justice. That is what Kees Sterk, a member of the Court of Justice, said at an expert meeting in the First Chamber. The purpose of the legislation governing the financing of the case-law was to avoid the financing of court cases from the political process. In practice, budgetary problems of the Ministry of Justice and Security are increasingly leading the financing of justice. A quote: "The Judicial Council considers that this practice is contrary to the purpose of the law, and affects judicial and institutional independence. As a result, there is a structuralally high workload. Judges and legal staff are fully planned, so there is very limited scope to respond flexibly to peaks in the business offering or loss of colleagues. Reflection and knowledge development are also often included as a result of the high workload. The rack is out of the organization." According to the Court of Justice Council. With this I have answered the questions that have been asked about independence. In doing so, I hope to have also convinced Mr Grothuizen of D66 that this bill can indeed contribute to the strengthening of the rule of law, by reducing the pressure now on independence and quality. Of course, that is not entirely separate from the issues agreed in the coalition agreement, which my group also warmly welcomes in parts. Mr Groothuizen knows that my group strongly supports local judges and socially effective justice. The fact that the Registry fees are not further increased, the proposal that Mr Groothuizen used in his first term, seems to me to be a good thing, even if we should also talk about whether the Registry fees are not too high now. In short, we give compliments where we can. However, we must continue to look for ways of further strengthening the rule of law. I also think we should do that when the opportunity arises, and not when you think, "Fuck it, now it's too late." But that is my humble opinion, I say to Mr Grothuizen. As far as I'm concerned, it's not either-or, but and-and. Apart from matters contained in the coalition agreement, which may be good, this can also be an additional good proposal, even if it comes from the opposition. Mr Grothuizen of D66 was also mainly looking for the practical usefulness of this proposal. That's what I'm getting at. We consider that to be the third argument. If the proposal we are discussing today becomes law, it will have some consequences. Justice is given a separate budget. The Minister for Legal Protection will present not only a budget for Justice and Security on Prinsjesdag, but also a budget for justice. And that is about something; we are talking about about about EUR 1 billion. This budget will then be given a separate Chamber number and a separate procedure in the Chamber, with, for example, a round of questions followed by a debate. Or we are not having a debate; if the Chamber is fully satisfied with the budget, so can we. Mr Markuszower raised the question of the possibility of an increase in the Council's budget for the case law if this proposal were adopted. The chances of budget cuts are getting smaller, so he asked. We've been dealing with that for a while. I think it is a very interesting and fair question, but one that is very difficult to answer. That is impossible to say in advance, because the Chamber keeps the last word. We just need to think and debate it better than we do now. In any case, justice is not immune to austerity. Two very concrete consequences, I can mention. Firstly, a separate budget for the case-law will mean that tasks to be distributed throughout the ministry do not automatically fall down on the case-law. The choice must then be made separately, and this requires a separate justification with an explanation. Secondly, I believe that a separate budget, a separate debate and a separate debate lead to greater transparency and understanding. How much money do we make available to the third state power and is there an objective justification for that? Is the system we have agreed on, so the price multiplied by the number of things, well respected or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u19	This calls for an interruption by Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u20	Mr Van Nispen says that a separate budget for justice does not automatically lead to a task for the Ministry being assigned to the case-law. What about when it's the other way around? Suppose there is a deficit in the budget of justice. So you can't go to the department automatically anymore? Isn't there a certain risk in that sense too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u21	No, that I don't think so. If there is a deficit in the case-law, we now see that there is a deficit, then the Minister for Legal Protection is still responsible for the budget of the case-law. That is the case now and also in the proposal we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u22	I understand. We've talked about that before. In this sense, this bill does not change the current budgetary system very much. But it is not general, so the case law will have to call on the Minister to solve a problem separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u23	Of course, that's the case now. I know, however, that there is a shortage of money in the state budget and that there are generic targets. I remember the notorious 8.9%, which had to be distributed throughout the ministry. So 8.9% was cut. But I don't know the opposite, and suddenly the whole government gets 10%. I've never seen that before, so I don't know how that goes. I think we should just look at the contents. How much budget does the police need to do her job properly? How much budget does the state's attorney's office need? How much budget does justice need? In the case of justice, we have therefore agreed on this objective financing, which unfortunately is not being respected. We therefore propose that the debate on whether the case law is financed as we have agreed should be conducted separately with a separate budget, a separate chamber number and so on. I believe that we are doing more justice to the intentions of the legislator in 2001. Actually, we're fixing the looming error that occurred at the time. If that budget is tabled and discussed, it is up to the Chamber to agree to it or to discuss it with the Minister. If Members of Parliament have specific questions about that budget.................................................................................................................. So, as Mr Van Raak rightly pointed out, this budget can also be dealt with specifically. A separate budget would rather do justice to the status of justice as an independent state power, i.e. independently of the Ministry. Any savings or investments will allow separate consideration of their impact, rather than discussing the entire budget of the Ministry. Mr Van Dam asked whether the case law should not continue to work well with other parties involved in the immigration chain or the criminal justice chain, for example. We were just saying something about that. I fully agree with him, but it is not an argument to leave the situation as it is now. The connection to the Ministry remains, of course. The Minister for Legal Protection remains responsible. This means that the budget must be such that it does not have any unintended consequences for cooperation in the chain. I think, on the contrary, that we can only improve our understanding of this with a separate budget. Let's at least watch that together. We also asked this question in the round table on the ambition path administrative chain recommendation to the representative of the Council for Justice, Mr Sterck. He was very clear about that at the time. He said that we think cooperation in the chain is important, so we will continue to do so, even with a separate budget. Of course, the Ministry is also watching that, because the Ministry also has an interest in cooperation in the chain, and of course we as a Chamber too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u24	I would like to give a concrete example to Mr Van Nispen, namely ICT in the criminal justice chain. We all know by now that you have to do that kind of thing with each other, otherwise everyone will build their own Christmas tree. How do you see that? In my opinion, the coalition agreement also states that certain funds are earmarked for the entire chain, precisely to prevent everyone from doing their own hobby. What you are actually doing with this proposal is, on the contrary, to positively influence the individuality of one of those partners by giving them money themselves and to formalize it completely. That's what I'm very worried about, because I think people have to do that kind of management trajectories together. That's the fear I have of your proposal. Maybe you could go into that sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u25	Yes, I can. I think I can take care of those concerns, because I do not think that this proposal is going to change anything in any way. In the coalition agreement there is extra money for improving digitalisation. That's what's really needed in that whole chain. It then makes no difference for the financing and for the cooperation in the chain whether there is a budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security, where the case-law then forms part of it as well as the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office form part of it, or whether the budget of the case-law has a separate Chamberpiece number. In the latter case, too, we must ensure that things are in order, for example in the Quality and Innovation Programme, but also in relation to cooperation in the chain with the other partners. Everyone sees this importance: there are programs for that and the administrative chain council is busy working on that. So I think the separate budget is creating an extra moment to talk to the Minister about what is going on with this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u26	I'm simplifying it a little bit, but I think that's good for the discussion. Look, what's going to happen now is that the minister is giving the whole chain together money to automate. Your proposal is that the minister gives money to the entire chain, except for one player. It then decides to participate or not, because it is its own budget. That's a big part of my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u27	Once again, I do not think that Mr Van Dam has any problem with this. I can really take away his concerns. It is not the case that the justice system itself has to invent how much budget it needs, and that the minister will no longer need it. That is not at the heart of this proposal. The Minister is still responsible for submitting the budget of justice to the Chamber. If additional resources are needed to improve this cooperation in the chain, then, of course, justice will also have the means to do so. So I really don't see the objection or the risk that that cooperation in the chain would deteriorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u28	Mr. Van Dam, very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u29	I don't know exactly how many time limits and interruptions we have, but if necessary, you'll have to call me off, Mr. President. Mr. Van Nispen, that's exactly the difference from your proposal, because in this kind of chain-wide management issues, one player offers you the opportunity to step out if we take a negative approach. Or is it the intention that, for this kind of chain-wide thing, the Minister should get money out of that jar of justice before he sends the budget to the Chamber and then do chain-wide things? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u30	I'm not entirely sure I understand that last question. There is no specific need to draw money from that budget from the case-law. It is precisely because these parties are working together, as they are doing now, that I emphasise. The money needed for this will then be available on two different budgets. I don't think it's any more complicated than that. I am a little afraid that Mr Van Dam, with his concerns with the best intentions, is looking for a problem that I really don't think there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u31	That also raises a question for Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u32	Mr Van Dam is indeed confusing me. I would like to ask the author of the proposal: is it not a matter of suddenly creating separate jars and bulkheads? The most important thing is that the decision-making process should change, and in that sense the power of the minister should be reduced somewhat and Parliament's understanding increased somewhat. Isn't that separate from all kinds of bulkheads that are about to emerge? How does the petitioner see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u33	Mrs Buitenweg is quite right about that. There will be a separate budget for justice, but that does not mean that there will be margins in cooperation. We were informed in the round table, in which Mr Van Dam, I and other Members of Parliament were present, that the cooperation between the judiciary, the prosecutor and the police is going very well. Of course, this cooperation can continue. That's exactly the point. A separate budget cannot, therefore, and must not, lead to any less cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u34	A quick question. Mrs Buitenweg asks a question that concerns me. Mr Van Nispen seems to have just confirmed that the bill would aim to reduce the power of the minister and increase the power of parliament. If that is the case, why is that not the objective set out in the legislative proposal? And what does Mr Van Nispen ultimately want with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u35	I have chosen my own words in the explanation of the law and the answer to the questions in my term. Mrs Buitenweg chooses her words. I say that the Court's understanding of the budget for justice is improving, that is to say the understanding of whether the budget we have agreed on in the case-law is being complied with, whether the rules are being complied with or not, and whether the case-law receives the necessary resources. Now a mission is about the entire ministry. With this bill, it needs a separate justification if you want to release such a austerity round on justice as well. The Chamber can then agree or say: beware, we should not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u36	But then you say: Parliament now has control over the amount of money spent on justice, and that will not be any different in due course. That leaves the question of what we're all doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u37	I know that Mr Van Oosten is not in favour of this bill. I have now explained here for about twenty minutes why I think we should do better to respect the independence of justice, of our third state power. The Court also gets more insight into the practical consequences: does the case law receive the budget we have agreed on? That hasn't happened in the last few years. There were hardly any critical questions asked by the various political groups in the Chamber, because it was hardly a subject and because we had to talk at the same time in the same budgetary procedure about all the very major problems in the field of security and the substantial cuts in police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, among others. So the complicated and technical question of whether or not the PxQ funding is being properly respected was a little bit underwhelmed by the budgetary violence we have experienced in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u38	I notice that not only judges are very pleased with this proposal because their independence, their work, will be easier, because when I read the law, I also think that my work will be much easier. If we get such a separate budget and such a separate debate, Mr Van Oosten's work will also be much easier because we can easily control it, we can better understand the figures and we can also more easily follow the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u39	And what's your question? Or is this in support of the initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u40	Whether the petitioner agrees that it will be easier not only for the judges but also for the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u41	It is exciting what I am going to say and I see it on Mr Van Oosten's face as well... That is indeed the case. Judges support this, but I also sincerely believe that it will make our work a little easier on that point. Let me say something about cooperation in the chain, because I can see that this is a matter of concern. When, for example, the police were still part of the Home Affairs budget years ago, we did not say to each other: there is such a shot that there is no cooperation between the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office? There were problems, but you can also work together between ministries. In fact, what I propose is that the Minister for Legal Protection should be responsible for the budget of justice and that, together with the Minister for Justice and Security, he should be responsible for the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security. So I don't think we should exaggerate the problems of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u42	Does Mr Van Dam have a question on a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u43	I do not want to talk about the chain anymore, because I have already shared enough with Mr Van Nispen but I do agree with the point made by the honourable Member, Mr Van Raak, about the clarity. 'Cause I don't get it. Is there gonna be another language or something? We have had the budget of Justice and Security, and it simply contains pages of the Council's budget for justice, with everything. I do not understand in what way this separate budget law is going to bring something new. I respect your position of principle in this respect, but I would like to see what will change in practice. I honestly believe that there really is no change in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u44	I don't see it that way. I've already said a few things about it. What does change is that a task will no longer automatically fall down on the case-law but that, where necessary, there should be a separate justification for it. I call it a task, but I might as well call it an investment. If an investment is needed in the case law above the PxQ we have already agreed on, then it will also have to be explained separately that this is to improve, for example, cooperation with the chain partners or to organise judges in the neighborhood. So I think the insight on that point is getting better. In addition, it is not only convenient but also fundamentally correct and careful for the Court if we can ask separate questions about the budget submitted for the case-law and we can discuss it separately, so that we can consider separately whether we can do everything we can with the EUR 1 billion for the case-law in view of what we are asking for from the case-law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u45	Mr Van Dam, I will give you the opportunity to ask one more question and then I would like to ask the author to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u46	It's more of a conclusion. Anything Mr Van Nispen wants, we can do now. Even now, we can allocate more or less to the Court of Justice or to the Court of Justice in general, either in terms of budget cuts or budget allocations. You can do that now. In my view, transparency about what is on paper is no different either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u47	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u48	I would like to stress this once again and ask whether I see that correctly, but I fear that I will ask for the familiar road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u49	I am also afraid that this is the way to go, because I have already taken it up a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u50	I believe that you can now proceed with the further reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u51	Yeah, and I'm almost there, too, because I'm getting to the question of whether this bill is going to solve all the problems right now. The SP and GroenLinks have asked whether this bill is the answer to the current problems in the justice system or whether much more is needed. The CDA and the VVD specifically raised other issues. Mr Van Oosten asked about the delays at the court in the north of the Netherlands and Mr Van Dam spoke about the negative equity of the case law. I share the concerns about this, but I do think that it goes beyond the scope of this bill to go into it in detail now. I would, of course, like to do so on other occasions, such as a general discussion of the case law with the Minister on 25 April or the separate or separate budget treatment, which we will hopefully have after this debate, after we have voted on it next week. So, no, this proposal will not solve all the problems in the case-law, and it is not intended to do so, but I do see this bill as a small, modest step in the right direction. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, certain groups seemed to suspect me that the real intention of this bill would be to ensure that there would be no more savings in justice; on the other hand, there were groups that seemed almost disappointed that this bill would not give immunity to cuts in justice. I must disappoint those two extremes. Perhaps with this modest proposal I will come out in the middle. I hope to have been able to convince the groups that we should take this step to strengthen the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u52	I would like to thank the author for the passionate defence of his own initiative proposal. I look at the Minister for Legal Protection to reply as his advisor and to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u53	Madam President, thank you for the opportunity to act as an advisor to your Chamber. A number of questions were also asked to me during the first term of your Chamber. I'll answer that. I will also mention how the cabinet views the proposal. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Nispen on the opportunity I did not have; all the spokesmen have already had an earlier term. Not only does a lot of work go into such an initiative proposal, but it also requires determination. And Mr Van Nispen has it. In 2016, he submitted an amendment with exactly the same content when examining the new Compatibility Act. That amendment was dissuaded by Mr Dijsselbloem on behalf of the government at the time and was eventually rejected by your Chamber, but we know Mr Van Nispen as a long-distance runner who never gives up and has good stamina. Hence again this proposal, translated into an own-initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I understand Mr Van Nispen's considerations, but that does not mean that I have to give him that this cabinet, like the previous cabinet, is not in favour of the bill. There are also some other sounds to be heard. Take, for example, the Council of State, which also makes some comments on the usefulness and necessity of this bill, and yet speaks above all of a proposal of symbolic significance. Mr. Chairman. Several Members of your Chamber have also pointed this out in their first term. Mr Van Oosten then noted that there was no problem that a solution was needed and that the independence of justice was not at stake. The independence of justice is one of the pillars on which our rule of law rests. That independence is secured in the Constitution and the Law on the Judicial Organisation. It follows that politics must keep its distance from justice. This does not mean that politics cannot interfere at all with the financing of justice. The budget for justice comes from the state budget. One could say that this is by definition a question of political commitment. For this we have budgetary rules, laid down in the Law on the Judicial Organisation and the Decision financing case law. In the end, the case law is financed on the basis of realised production. You could say that every case is paid for. In my view, this system is transparent and verifiable. This will allow for an open debate in your Chamber on the amount of justice. For the way in which we discuss this, we can of course choose different forms. In fact, that is up to your Chamber, but we do not need a separate budget law for that in my view, so I say to Mr Van Raak. Mr Van Raak first stated that the advantage of this bill would be that you could have a specific debate on that budget, but in fact you can have that debate now. You can ask the question if it is an idea to arrange that own budget only because you think that symbolism is very important. Mrs. Kuik asked that question out loud. I think that is also a fair question, but I would not be in favour of it myself. If we look back, we can see that in 2002 the legislator gave a good deal of thought to the budgetary rules for justice and also broadly followed the advice of the Leemhuis Committee. According to that committee, we must ensure that the judicial organisation does not become a state within the state. Background to this is that there is no strict separation of powers in the Netherlands. The three state powers are balanced by checks-and-balances. The Leemhuis Committee considered the establishment of the Council of Justice to be crucial for this purpose. The case law can also counter the two other state powers. Other constructions were also considered at the time, but they were not considered appropriate in the Dutch state-law relations. In this establishment a certain ministerial responsibility for management was also considered necessary and, of course, parliamentary control over it. A balance has been struck with the current system, on the one hand, with the desire to guarantee the independence of justice and, on the other hand, with the principle of system responsibility of the Minister and the budgetary law of Parliament, in that triangle. The Council of State also points out this in its opinion. The Council of State states that the initiative law would intervene in this system of checks-and-balances without the need for it being immediately demonstrated. Mr. Chairman. With my outline of the history, I have also answered Mr Van Raak's question as to why the budget of justice is included in a departmental budget. Mr Van Raak also asked whether it was true that if you do not agree that, for example, savings are being made on the budget of justice, then you do not have to vote away the whole JenV budget. Well, that's right. The House of Representatives may, with the instruments it has, amend an amendment to a part of the budget law. So even if you do not agree with the financial measures or with the budget allocated to justice, you can also make a point of this as a Chamber within the current system. What about the House's budget law? Mr Groothuizen asked for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u54	Before you answer Mr Grothuizen's questions, I would like to give Mr Van Raak an opportunity to respond to the questions he has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u55	The Justice Council is very much in favour of this law, and this morning a large number of judges in the newspaper said: justice in the trias politician is the third state power, but has been financially reduced to a department of the ministry. They also say: on balance, justice as the only pillar of the trias politician does not have its own budget. That is, in principle, incorrect. And the judges say: a vote for this bill is a vote for a stronger rule of law. That is a very clear and clear plea from the judges. The Minister says on behalf of the government that he does not agree, but he mentions arguments such as system responsibility and budget law. Can the Minister explain why if this law were passed, he would no longer have system responsibility and why the House of Representatives would no longer have budget rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u56	Mr. Chairman. I read the play, too. I understand that's how judges place this. I don't agree. The point I wanted to make is that when you talk about system responsibility and the role of justice throughout the chain, there are arguments why it is part of the total J and V budget. I think that is also true of Mr Van Dam's argument. I have heard Mr Van Nispen and a number of spokesmen talk about this. I heard Mr Van Raak say something about the pressure on the judiciary. I think that is a very right and very real point, but it is not solved by cutting the budget loose and putting it in a separate budget chapter. I come to the conclusion that I, like the Council of State, question the usefulness and necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u57	The budget right is clear; we just always keep it. That's just what the Constitution says. This law doesn't change anything about that. So that's the Minister's argument. When it comes to his system responsibility, can he call a decision that he can now take and that he will not be able to take any more? Name a proposal, give me an idea, give me a law, name something that would not be possible with this new law, which would restrict the political area of the minister by this purely budgetary proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u58	Mr. Chairman. I have just explained how the constitutional, state-law system is organised and the considerations which the Leemhuis Committee gave in its opinion to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u59	I'll give you another chance, Mr. Van Raak, but the Minister is now in the process of answering your question, hopefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u60	Mr President, if Mr Van Raak is not interested in my answer, he should simply say so. What I wanted to point out was the background at the time in order not to separate justice from the entire JenV budget. In this respect, matters such as the separation of powers, which is very important, but also the system of responsibility that I bear as a minister. This ultimately led to the establishment of the budget, which was reconfirmed by a number of committees afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u61	The argument of the budget was already gone; now the system responsibility. What political decision will the Minister not be able to make later that he can take now? You should not refer to committees...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u62	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u63	What political decision can the Minister no longer make that he can now take?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u64	I do not think there are so many decisions that we will not be able to make later, but there are not many other things that change when you put it aside. That is exactly what the cabinet says: the usefulness and necessity of this bill have not been demonstrated. The Council of State says that it is purely a proposal of symbolic character. If you look at the choices that have been made in the past, where certain High Colleges of State have been given a chapter, you will see that at the time it was very consciously chosen not to do so for justice. In fact, I can still follow that reasoning very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u65	The minister was just using very big words. He was talking about the possibility that there would be a state in a state. I thought that was really intense. At the same time, when we look at what kind of state we get, the Minister also says that in the end there is not so much change and that it is above all symbolic. I would also like to hear from the Minister how his conclusion, after Mr Van Raak's intervention, that it is actually only symbolic legislation, relates to the big words that there is a potential for creating a state in a state.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u66	Mr President, those were not my words. I quoted the words of the Leemhuis Committee in 2002, which gave a good deal of thought to the budgetary rules for justice and wrote this down in its report. At the time, the advice was not to make it a separate budget chapter, but to make a better connection between the justice system and the ministry. The proposal was then made to set up the Court of Justice. In my view, some of the arguments put forward in that report still apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u67	The Minister always resorts to reports, to the Council of State. He refers to that, but I do not really get a substantive answer. I hope that the Minister himself, without referring to a report, but simply says to the Chamber what is so different in principle that the case law does not get a separate budget, but the State General, the Council of State, the General Court, the National Ombudsman, the Election Board, the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Committee does. What now justifies that all these bodies do have a separate budget and not the case law, without referring to a report. I just want a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u68	Thank you. You also indicate how the Minister should answer the question, but the Minister is about his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u69	All of these are High Colleges of State for which a different consideration was made at the time, and not for the case law. I also think, when you look at the case law, that the role is really different. I believe that, if you want to discuss whether there should be more or less budget to the justice system, this can also be done in the current system. However, you can also opt for coherence, because justice is also part of a chain. I can imagine that there is also something to be said for, for example, cutting the budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is also simply part of the budget of J and V, and of course has a magnificent role to play in keeping it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u70	Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u71	I do not think this is so convincing, because in the end these budgets remain. The organisations will still work together. The only difference is that it is laid down in a separate budget. I don't understand what the objection to that is. The Minister himself calls it a symbolic act, but what is the objection to it? What is the objection to this law that marks that justice is a separate power? That's an important symbolic act, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u72	I'll turn it around. What is the point of making it a separate budget? I don't see that right away. It also leads to breeding and fragmentation. When I look at the de facto material results of the bill, I have my doubts. And not only do I see that the Council of State, even when it comes to what is materially changing, is questioning it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u73	The Minister talked about the High Colleges of State, but to my knowledge, the CTIVD is not a High College of State, nor is the King's Cabinet nor the Election Council. The Minister may advise us. That is his right, that is his duty, we welcome it, but it is his right, in a good way and not in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u74	My advice, including on this point, is clear to me. I don't know if there's any point in walking past all these other organizations. I have indicated how we look at the opinion. The cabinet does not immediately see its added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u75	The Minister continues his speech. We'll see if there's any questions left, but I'd like to give the Minister a chance to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u76	Mr. Chairman. What about the possible amendments and the Court's budgetary right? Mr Groothuizen asked about it. Of course, the Chamber retains the right of amendment. In the case of a separate budget law, different laws need to be amended. Of course, this can be done, but practice shows that such a thing is a little more complicated than seeking cover within a single budget law. Mr Van Dam pointed out that justice is part of the judicial chain. He asked himself what the bill meant in that connection. I think I just said a few words about that. Also from the idea of integrality there is something to say that justice is also part of JenV's broader budget. I come to the conclusion that the cabinet is not in favour of this initiative legislative proposal. I have also been asked a number of other questions at first instance, which do not directly affect the legislative proposal, but which I am happy to answer. Mr Van Oosten asked what is being done about the shortage of judges and the delays in the North Netherlands court. He also called for attention to be paid to worrying signals about the digitisation of justice. On 8 February, I already replied to written questions from Mr Van Oosten, among others. In that I indicated how the court of the North Netherlands is working together with the D.A. to eliminate delays and bring cases to justice as soon as possible. Digitisation is another point. I sent your Chamber a progress report on this matter on 31 January, in which I stated that I am seriously concerned about the developments surrounding the KEI digitisation project. Although it has achieved good results on a small scale, it is still slower than expected and costs considerably more than expected. I think it's necessary to shift course there. I hope to inform the Chamber about this shortly, at least for the AA of 25 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u77	As far as I was concerned, I would have asked the Minister, in the first place, what he could mean in this respect, as far as the delays in the working stock in the North Netherlands court were concerned. I also asked written questions about it. From the answer to these questions, I understand that the Minister would discuss making judges available elsewhere in the country for the purposes of affairs in the North of the Netherlands. I would like to know what has come out of it, because we are now almost two months away and those deficits have not yet been resolved by my knowledge. If there's any capacity available elsewhere, I think we should use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u78	They're looking at things like that. If you want to know exactly, I will remain guilty until my next term. I don't have it ready immediately. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam asked about the promised letter on the threat of negative own funds from the judiciary. In the letter on KEI, I indicated that I hope to have more insight into the implementation in the spring and what it means for the longer term, even because it relates to the financial situation. I will also inform your Chamber of this in the spring. Finally, Mr Van Dam asked for attention, in fact broader than the case law, for various organisations within the J and V domain. How do we look at that? Shouldn't we even keep it against the light? Members know that there is a multi-annual change programme in the Ministry, precisely with a view to improving management, coordination and information sharing. It also looks at the overall structure of the department, internal management, cooperation and coordination, and financial control. I can promise you that we will inform the Chamber more about this. Then I will address this question specifically. Mr. Chairman. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u79	Thank you. I understand there's a need for a short second term. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u80	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I find it so chic in the direction of the initiator to thank him for the answers he has given, also for questions that I have asked. I admit, honestly, they didn't convince me. But I had already indicated in my first term the reasons why I would advise my group to vote against this proposal. However, I think that together we can make a great deal of effort on matters relating to the organisation of justice in this country. I would like an answer from the Minister to a question that I have asked now and also before. How can it be organised that delays can be overcome, perhaps by the use of judges elsewhere in the country? This is particularly true in the North of the Netherlands. I would like that to be done. I understood from the Minister that he is going to discuss this. We're a little bit further in time, so I'd like to hear what came out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u81	Thank you. Let me see if Mr Markuszower needs a second term. No? Then Mr Van Raak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law is not revolutionary, but it is important for the rule of law, for the independence of jurisdiction. That is also what the Justice Council says, which says that we are correcting a looming mistake with this law. It is also publicly stated in the media that this proposal will lead to a stronger rule of law. The question is asked: why should you be ahead of it? But you also have to ask the question: why should you be against it? I must say that I have listened with increasing surprise to the Minister, whom I thank for the advice, but which I could not make much chocolate out of. The Minister says: yes, the government is against it because of budget law. But he also had to admit right away that this budget right is in no way affected. He says: yes, that has to do with my system responsibility. But the Minister could not mention one example of a decision that he can take now and not anymore. The minister also mumbled something about High Colleges of State. But CTIVD, Election Board, Cabinet of the King or a whole bunch of other organizations that do have their own budget, are not a High College of State at all. So, as far as I have any doubts, that doubt has been removed by the Minister's advice and I can tell the author that we are going to support this law wholeheartedly. It is not about money, but about agreements, certainly about decision-making, about the budget of justice. It's getting more insightful. A separate debate will have to be held, and therefore a separate justification must be given, for austerity but also for investment. It is more purer by state law, but I also think it is important that this proposal should make the work of our House of Representatives easier and easier. So thank you again to the author. You have my vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u83	Thank you. Let me see if Mr Van Dam needs a short second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u84	So short that I won't move the chair up. Mr. Chairman. Again much appreciation and respect for the response that Mr Van Nispen and his team have put forward here and, of course, thanks to the Minister, but I do not really look at the principled point of view differently. The independence of justice lies in the independence of the substantive judgment of the verdict. For me, it's not so much about the management aspects. The comparison has been made here with other High Colleges of State or other organizations which do not, but do have their own budget. In my opinion, these are generally very small organisations which have a specific task, while justice in a chain is, in a certain sense, also a production plant. That is precisely the substantive argument why I will also advise my group not to support this proposal. The path that justice must follow in the near future is that of cooperation, efficiency in the chain and computerisation. It is not for nothing that the caselaw takes part in district judicial consultation, the criminal justice chain council. To my taste, a position of isolation at the moment is not a solution to the problem. I say this also from extensive personal experience in the criminal justice chain, for example. This proposal pretends a lot, but it hardly changes anything. That's also a reason for me not to be there for that. Towards judges who even write letters in the newspaper, I also want to have some kind of honesty what really changes. The problems really need to be solved in budgetary terms, but that is not what we are facing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u85	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Grothuizen for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u86	Mr. Chairman. Two minutes, is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u87	It may be shorter, but not longer than two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u88	Then I'm gonna talk real quick. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Nispen for the great work he has done and the effort he has made to put this proposal on paper and to motivate it. I appreciate that very much. However, I have already made a number of critical comments in my first term and asked the initiator to do so. The first question was how this proposal now relates to the ministerial responsibility and the position of Parliament. That's not a theoretical question. The letter from the judges we received this morning has already been mentioned by a number of people. It reads as follows: "The proposal for an own-initiative act deals with the fundamental question of who determines what may cost justice." So it's not. That is not what the initiative proposal is about. In fact, Mr Van Nispen admits that as well. The Minister is still responsible and the Parliament must adopt the budget. The proposal therefore does not change that fundamental question. I see Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u89	Perhaps you could finish your speech first. Then I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u90	Sure. That then raises the question of what exactly is changing this proposal. In fact, the initiator also acknowledges that this is not so much. The incentive payment remains and cuts are still possible. As far as I am concerned, the initiator thus acknowledges that this legislative proposal has no practical relevance to justice. Mr Van Nispen pointed out another aspect in his speech. The question of principle is that he finds it strange that there is no separate budget in the case-law, whereas that case-law occupies a special position in the trias. The latter is of course correct in itself, although that triad is certainly not complete. The judge is independent and should be independent in our system, but that independence is precisely functional independence. The judge is free to decide what he wants and write down in his verdict what he wants. I understand that the initiator says that financial conditions affect the work of judges, but that does not lead to a reduction in independence. Finally, I have a further reflection. I actually think it is logical, then, that I agree with Mr Van Dam, that we do not regard the work of judges as something separate, but something that is inextricably linked to other activities, such as the police, the Children's Protection Council or the Public Prosecutor's Office. I wonder if it is wise to make such a cut in those finances. Mr President, concluding. The initiator did not really convince me of the added value of this proposal. I therefore expect that my group will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u91	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u92	Thank you. I find it disappointing. I had hoped that D66 would be for this, because that was always the case in the previous periods. For my understanding, therefore, it is perhaps appropriate for Mr Grothuizen to explain why D66 has now changed his position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u93	I'd be happy to. Mr Van Raak actually asked the same question in the first period, but I do not think Mrs Buitenweg was present. A number of things have changed. Firstly, we had an amendment and now we have a legislative proposal on which is an extremely critical opinion from the Council of State. I have also asked the initiator about this and he has not been able to convince me of the added value. That is basically what the Council of State says: this proposal has little practical effect. Secondly, the initiator, I think, has also said warm words about this, and rightly so, I note that we are taking a number of steps in the coalition agreement which are actually changing justice. They may be small steps, but we come from a period of great austerity. That has now come to an end. We are not going to increase registry rights further, we are going to work on innovative justice and we are giving a lot of money to strengthen the criminal justice chain. That is what I think are real concrete steps that really solve the problems in the financial sector. If I put these things against each other, the symbolic effect of this bill and the real measures that we are taking, then I think that this bill does not put sufficient weight on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u94	Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u95	Then I have very good news for Mr Grothuizen, because he can have both. He says: if I turn them against each other, then I will opt for the measures contained in the coalition agreement and not for the SP proposal. I saw that coming a little bit, but the good news is that you can have the measures from the coalition agreement, which I say to Mr Groothuizen............................................................................................................................................................................................................ Unless, and that would be new, an agreement has been made within the government agreement that you actually give a no-vote to this in exchange for those other agreements. That's what I like to hear. You just said it has a symbolic value. What's up with that all of a sudden, from D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u96	Thank you. That is a repeat of the question, but I would like to give the floor to Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u97	This is indeed a repeat of the question. I think I have tried best to express this by quoting the judges who wrote the letter in the Volkskrant this morning. They simply rely on an incorrect presentation of cases, namely that the substance of the case changes the financial position of the case-law. That is not the case, and I think that is wrong. In that sense, I believe that the legislative proposal merely raises an expectation that we cannot live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u98	Thank you. I call Mrs Buitenweg for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u99	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the author very much for all his hard work and also for the proposal. I was not present at the first term; I was ill then and Mr Van Raak of the SP spoke on my behalf. I am actually very surprised when I look at the debate. I hear Mr Groothuizen say that it sends the wrong signal. He says, "The judges think this and we have to do it." Like judges need some kind of education signal. Judges know what this is about. Moreover, it is not a question of responding to the expectations of judges. The point is that we are simply setting up budgets as we believe is purely state law. I think it is very logical that there should be a separate budget for the judiciary. In part, this can be seen as a symbolic act. I hear Mr Van Dam say: it hardly changes anything and everything Mr Van Nispen wants can already be done. Then I'm thinking, why wouldn't you? It's just the most logical thing to do separately. That does not mean that all that money is completely separate, but that you discuss it separately, and that it also clearly shows what the judiciary wants. Then we, the representatives of the people, will take a decision on this in Parliament. In my view, this is more purer in state law and, as Mr Van Raak said, makes the work for the House of Representatives considerably easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u100	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u101	Um. Yeah, actually, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u102	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dam to intervene. But don't start another whole new discussion, Mr. Van Dam, because I think we've had a lot of discussion about the bill. If you'd like to ask for something new, I'll give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u103	No, I can't ask for anything new.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u104	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u105	Mrs Buitenweg specifically asks: why don't you do it, because it can't hurt? Then I would like to tell her: in my terms, there are actually two pots. That is the substantive argument for me; I have already given it. Don't you see? Can't you see that there are actually two funding flows in chains?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u106	No, I don't see it that way. I can see that there will be much more discussion about how the distribution can be. This may arise if, for example, a decision is taken by the Minister with regard to the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office. In that case, such a proposal does not mean that it is also laid down in the budget of the case-law according to the same system. But of course it is logical that all proposals and plans for a chain approach, which you make as chain partners, should normally be included in the budget. This will mean that if the judiciary, as a chain partner, has agreed to a certain system, the judiciary, which will also be placed in the budget in that way. So I think it might be registered differently, but if you have an agreement with the judiciary, that will of course be put on paper there. In addition, as a parliament, we still have the last word. The only difference is that it has become a little more difficult for the Minister to hide it in the budget; that is how I see it. I think that's an advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u107	Thank you. Few questions were asked to the applicant during the second period. But I will give him the opportunity to draw a few final conclusions, and there is one more question for the Minister. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u108	I would like to thank the Minister for his compliments and for his advice, even though, unfortunately, the cabinet is not in favour of the proposal. I too feel the need to respond to the argument raised by the Minister. I will do that briefly, Mr President. The Minister says that the Leemhuis Commission from 2002 warns that we must be careful of the state within the State. I myself did not hear that argument when it comes to the General Court, the National Ombudsman or the Election Council, for example. For me, the question remains why the King's Cabinet should have a separate budget, but not justice, our third state power. Moreover, in the case of justice, the Council also says that if we now look at what we agreed in 2002, this is ultimately a looming error. At first, the looming error did not cause much problems, because the financing was carried out as it had been agreed.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That was ultimately the reason for this bill. I am sorry that I have not been able to convince Mr Van Oosten. I hope to have answered Mr Markuszower's questions satisfactorily in my first term. I would like to thank Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Raak for their support. It is true that this proposal sets up the budget in a purely state-controlled manner. Mr Van Dam expressed his concern about cooperation. If we were to have the debate on this separate budget, we would be perfectly capable of assessing whether this cooperation is being carried out as we have all agreed and as we are perhaps going to agree on it, and whether the resources needed for it are being provided. The penultimate speaker, Mr Grothuizen, once again raised the question of how the proposal relates to ministerial responsibility. The answer to that is that it relates very well to that. The answer to the question of who decides what the case law may cost is indeed: that is the House of Representatives. That's just like it is now. Mr Grothuizen concludes that there is therefore no practical interest. That was my third argument in the first term. I do see two practical consequences. First of all, there must be a separate justification for either the cut-off or the additional investment. These are practical consequences. There must be a separate justification for this in such a budget. We can ask questions about that. We can discuss that. It becomes more transparent and insightful. So that seems very good to me. In addition to the principle that, in my opinion, it is very good if we do more justice to independent justice in the Netherlands, our third state power, by granting it a separate budget. I think it is a small step in the right direction, namely strengthening our rule of law. I appeal to all parties to agree to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u109	Thank you. Let me give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u110	Mr. Chairman. In my view, the arguments are shared when it comes to Mr Van Nispen's statement on compliance with budgetary rules. Maybe we should think about it again in another AO. In fact, I think that we need a nuance of that image as well. Maybe I'll put it in writing in advance of that AO of April 25th. Then I can take Mr Van Oosten's question with me right away. The conversations are still going on. I hope to have an outcome before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u111	Then we have come to the end of this treatment. I would like to thank the petitioner with his staff, because it is always quite a job, such an initiative law. I would like to thank the Minister, the MPs and the people in the gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-38.u112	Next Tuesday, we're going to vote on the bill. I'm suspending the meeting.
