ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin with Mr Van Helvert's questions on behalf of the CDA to the Foreign Minister about the report that the Netherlands is withdrawing the Dutch ambassador from Turkey. I call Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands officially withdraws the ambassador from Turkey. The CDA can certainly support this decision. In diplomatic terms, this is a very big step, especially when it comes to a country with which we have had a strong trade relationship for centuries. This is not the result of a small thing. Turkey is not so close to the rule of law, breaks the international legal order by simply invading Afrin and, as our ally, asks something unacceptable, after it has illegally smuggled ministers into the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. In last week's debate with the Minister, the CDA was still very critical of the Minister's relatively understanding attitude towards Turkey. The CDA has four questions to the Minister about this interplay. What is the impact of this decision on the appreciation of the cabinet that Turkey, without proof, invades a neighbour, Syria? Two. What do we do about Dutch people with a Turkish passport, who, according to the Turkish state, have to fight for Turkey in Afrin? How do we deal with that here in the Netherlands? Three. How is it ensured that Dutch ISIS fighters and other ISIS fighters who are either trapped or hidden in Turkey or in the Kurdish part of Syria will not be released and have an easy passage to the rest of Europe? And four. What are the consequences for Dutch citizens, companies and investors in Turkey, now that the ambassador has officially withdrawn and the higher echelons in Turkey are no longer available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the input from the CDA. We did indeed have a strong debate last week on the Turkish invasion of Northern Syria, in the region of Afrin, but I want to make it clear that that is a different case from this one. Those two things aren't related. Talks with Turkey have been, or have been, ongoing for several months with regard to normalizing the relationship between Turkey and the Netherlands. There have been high official calls. I have spoken to my Turkish counterpart twice myself. From the Netherlands, the approach of this process was to arrive at a joint declaration on the basis of equivalence and balance, and then look to the future and exchange ambassadors again. We didn't agree on that balance. There was an urgent desire to allow the Netherlands to take a first step. I say openly: the Netherlands was not prepared to do so. We wanted to put the past behind us. We have a very different view of what happened last March. The deadline for the calls went down. The result was known to the Turks, namely the permanent withdrawal of our ambassador. He's been at home for over ten months and such a top diplomat can be better deployed elsewhere in the world. Imaginary, it cannot be the case that a new Turkish ambassador will be accredited in the Netherlands. We stopped the calls after the deadline, because they didn't lead to anything. That is what happened, and that is separate from the events in Afrin. Those events came between us, but once again, they are separate from this. Mr Van Helvert spoke about not being close to the rule of law and about our appreciation of the attacks in Afrin. Those things aren't connected. I also told the Chamber last week in the AO that the Dutch cabinet also sees that the rule of law is only deteriorating in Turkey. I have also said that I condemn the arrest of people who criticize the raids in the region of Afrin in Northern Syria. Mr Van Helvert asked whether this would have an impact on the Afrin dossier. No, because as I mentioned in the AO last week, the Netherlands also wants to take careful action in this dossier. This means that we see that the information provided by Turkey to justify the invasion of Northern Syria under Article 51 of the UN Charter is insufficient. Today, at the NATO Council, we asked additional questions to the Turkish authorities to provide that information, so that we can determine whether it is lawful or not. Right now, we don't have that information. We continue to follow this carefully, and we are increasing that pressure. That's what we did with Germany today. What about Dutch people with Turkish passports to serve in the Turkish army? We've known this problem for a long time. Individuals have the possibility to buy off their military service, but they also have the possibility to surrender their Turkish nationality. That's an individual choice that people have to make. The Dutch government cannot therefore enter into this. Then: how do we prevent the release of ISs, both from northern Iraqi detention and in Turkey? This brings me to the fourth question about the consequences for Dutch companies. It's not like we don't have a relationship with Turkey. We are not achieving a normalization of the relationship on the same basis as countries with which there are no problems, namely: ambassadors and full relations. But we still have a temporary charger in Turkey. They have them here, too. There are contacts. If I run into my colleague at an international meeting, I'll just talk to him. Dutch companies therefore have a contact and can also be represented by the Dutch government. So there is also contact between the Dutch government and the Turkish government about any ISs who go to Turkey, so that we can bring them to the Netherlands under supervision when they arrive at a consulate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Minister says that it is separate from the situation in Turkey: Afrin has nothing to do with it and the rule of law is independent of it. It's really all about the Minister being smuggled into that car like that. If that diplomatic riot, though annoying, was it that of course it was only one thing, you're not going to suspend the relationship with a country you've been dealing with for centuries. You do that because the bucket is full and the diplomatic riot was the straw that made him defect. When you're improving relationships, it makes sense for you to think about some things: I'm holding back my criticism. But now we're saying we're not gonna improve the relationship. Then it is also good that we look at how we can express our concern about the situation in Afrin. The Minister says that we have asked for evidence in the NATO Council. That's very good, because there must be. At the moment, Turkey has not provided any evidence. The evidence they provide wasn't enough. So, by definition, there is no evidence. Is there an ultimatum? Or can Turkey go on indefinitely until we think for once: and that's enough? In my opinion, that of the CDA and, in my opinion, that of a lot of Dutch people you hear, when you invade your neighbour on the basis of Article 51, proof of that. You can't say to your allies, "Find out I'm not wrong." There's a little bit more to do with that, because we can't accept this. Especially now that the relationship with Turkey is no longer an excuse to hide behind. I understand that it splits in diplomatic traffic, but it is no longer a matter of the moment. Then when it comes to the ISIS fighters, Mr. President. The Netherlands, together with Turkey, is chairman of the anti-ISIS coalition against former and current ISIS fighters. Can you guarantee that the diplomatic break will not affect ISIS fighters moving towards the Netherlands or Europe? On my fourth question, the Minister replied that it has no effect on business, citizens and investors that the ambassador is gone. Then why do we have ambassadors all over the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u6	I'll start with the last one. You asked about effects. I'm reasoning from the situation we're in right now. We don't have an ambassador now, so nothing changes. No ambassador's coming back. The ambassador has not been present in Turkey for more than ten months. There is, however, a temporary charge, which will continue to be observed, just as we will continue to cooperate with Turkey and other countries in the field of IS and the fight against terrorism. That's not gonna change. Then suspend the relationship. We do not suspend the relationship, but we note that improving the relationship, the normalization of the relationship, has not led to success. We have had talks and we have seen if we can come to a joint situation where both countries say: we are leaving March last year and are going to look to the future. That didn't work. That's different from what you would have said right now: we're gonna send their ambassador away and pull ours back. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to normalize the relationship. I don't think we should mix the situation in Afrin with this. These conversations were started long before Afrin took place, and in such a process it would be weird if you changed the rules during the game. Afrin is something in itself, in which we continue to increase the pressure, because the concerns about it are justified and indeed within Article 51 of the UN Charter there are two issues. The first is evidence, providing information. That is not enough to date. There is no evidence yet for a justified appeal to Article 51. In addition, it concerns proportionality. As I said last Thursday, there are worrying signs that proportionality, let me put it mildly, is not being respected. That, too, is something that we keep pressing to get the evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mr Van Helvert. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm surprised. If the talks are not stranded on very fundamental issues, including an illegal attack on Northern Syria, the cooperation of a NATO partner with a jihadist group, freedom of expression, the fact that over 600 people in recent times who are in favour of peace have been arrested and more than 150 journalists in prison. If all these are not the basic principles and conditions for progress to be made to normalise that relationship, if it is not all of them, then what is it? What, then, is the way in which this Minister sees normalization, with a first step being to send the ambassador back to Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u9	Then I'll come up with the same answer. This matter arose last March with the entry of two Turkish ministers. One had no landing rights and the other, as one could follow on television, has returned to Germany. This has led to an escalation in relations. We have tried to restore that. This is unrelated to the deterioration of the rule of law which is undoubtedly taking place there. It's not about picking up people who criticize Afrin and other things. But if the fact that people are locked up because of criticism of the government and that the rule of law is going down the case is about having normal relations with countries at ambassador level and so on, we still have a lot of countries wherever that is going. We often have a debate in this house about a lot of countries, and we see that the rule of law is inadequate and that people are in prison for political reasons. Nevertheless, we have normal relations with them and an ambassador. It's not like that. I told you what the reasons were. Over the past year we have tried to achieve standardisation. It didn't work. Now we are taking this step to stop the conversations for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u10	The Minister rightly describes the major problems in Turkey. I have a question that relates to this, namely the Dutch with a Turkish passport which is still stuck in Turkey. I wonder, after not normalizing relations, how the Minister is going to ensure that these consular matters, the matters of people in difficult difficulties, can still be taken care of so that they can count on the Netherlands trying to get them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u11	That is why we do not go beyond this. We are now stopping the talks in order to achieve standardisation at the level of the return of ambassadors. The temporary agent remains active there and continues to carry out consular work, so that the Dutch with a dual nationality who are in prison have the full support of the consular apparatus at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u12	In addition to the questions that colleagues have already asked, I also have a lot of them, because this zigzag diplomacy does not make clear exactly what is going on in the relationship between Turkey and the Netherlands. That is why I would very much like a fact-finding report from the Minister. I would like to have that at the beginning of next week, so that we can try together to follow the zigzag route that is now being run, because I have, frankly, lost the overview. I do not know very well whether the Minister remembers how to return to a situation that allows us to deal with the problems of the rule of law in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mrs Ploumen is asking for a factual account. I heard Mr Omtzigt react a little reluctantly and then I thought: if he is already reluctant about a factual account, then it is a very strange question. I don't need to give a factual account of this at all, because it's conversations at diplomatic level, where you explore what is and isn't possible. The more public we're going to feed it, the less chance we have of success, I think. Let us be clear: the reason is not a discussion. Mrs Ploumen also knows this from a previous role very well. With the new cabinet we have found a situation of distorted relations with Turkey. We tried to normalize it. That's what we've been talking about. Let us be clear, as the Prime Minister has already said, that there can be no excuses or anything like that from the Dutch side. We don't expect them to do that anymore. The Netherlands would have liked to have a situation of right crossing, to say the least domestic, and look to the future. We have not been able to reach agreement on this with the Turks. At some point there will be no point in talking and you must make it clear that there should not be a new point on the table every time. Then you're gonna stop talking. In fact, you have now had the facts. That's the situation. Then you're gonna stop talking at some point. At some point there is no point in talking; then you have to show the other side that what they want cannot be offered. Then it stops. That is the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u14	There is a second supplementary question from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u15	It may well be that the Minister does not need a factual account, but that was not my question. I need it because I cannot really reconstruct where we come from, where we zigzag and what consequence it has to our ability to address Turkey on all these undesirable practices that we have just heard about. So I insist on my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mrs Ploumen also insists on the use of the word "zigzag', while I think a fairly straight line is visible here. If the majority of the House wants a factual account, we have, of course, to comply with it on the basis of the obligation to provide information, but I would nevertheless like to state the following to the Chamber. I have just outlined the process as it has taken place in general terms. Let me put it in a question: I do not know whether describing this process in detail is going to bring about a normalization of relations at a later date. I'll give you that consideration. Then I'll find out what the Chamber thinks by majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u17	I do not know whether all this is going to help, but it would be good to know a little bit more about what has happened all these months. At that time there was apparently spoken, tried to normalize the situation, a balance was sought. The Netherlands was out to cross immediately. These are all words we have heard from the Minister for the past 24 hours. I think that Turkey has asked the Netherlands to apologize and that the Netherlands did not, but I am not even sure. It would be good if we knew a little bit more about that. It would also be good to know what the Netherlands wanted from Turkey, because so far I have no idea at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u18	The conversations have now stopped and not for nothing I use the word "still." At a later stage, the situation can undoubtedly arise that we will get back into conversation. I cannot imagine that countries that have had 400 years of relations will have no relations over the next 400 years. There will come a time when there will be a rapprochement. I would like to point out to Mr Van Ojik that we will be able to indicate exactly what has changed in the previous phase. But that's something that's on the street. This will have an impact on any future situation and any future discussions and on any standardisation of relations. That's not the issue right now. Mr Van Ojik knows that, like no other, public access is generally of no benefit. The same applies to coalition negotiations; it is also wise to show only the end result and not the way to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u20	May I ask a second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u21	Of course, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u22	I understand. Exactly what you can and what you can't tell is a matter of balance. But you're taking an important step: we're going to withdraw the ambassador. I assume you're not just doing that because you need him somewhere else, as the minister said yesterday, but you also have a certain political intention. It must be clear, even for this Chamber, what exactly that is supposed to be. What are we after? What's that balance? What's that crossing right there? It is really not enough for the Minister to say: I can't say anything about it, because then I'm putting the trial at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u23	The tip of the veil I think I cheated yesterday, but I can do that again here. In balance, this does not mean that one country should take a first step to show that the country is taking on some kind of debt. That cannot be the case. Both countries have a totally different view of what happened last March. I do not have the impression that we are going to agree on the vision of last March's events. The approach of the Netherlands at that point has been to look mainly at the future and no first steps of any party. Nor are we asking for that from the Turkish side. But above all: statements aimed at the future and restoration of relations. We didn't figure it out. I also said yesterday that the Netherlands is not asking for an apology to Turkey, but they do want a first movement on our part. We can't offer them and that's why it stops at some point. If that is what we are doing, then we can talk to each other for a very long time, but at some point you have to make it clear: you want to, but we are not going to offer it. We can talk about it ten more times, but then it ends here. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr. Chairman. Let me first praise and congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs for not apologizing, which would be very inappropriate, and that he has decided to freeze relations with Turkey, at least not to continue or improve them, precisely in the context of the hundreds of arrests that have taken place in Turkey and the invasion in Syria. That is where my question comes from, and it has just been asked by Mr Van Helvert. Until today, we have no idea how long the period can last that the Turks are not providing proof and yet can continue their struggle, despite the fact that they are in NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u26	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u27	Is the Minister prepared or can he tell me when Article 51 asks Turkey to produce such proof? Is there a deadline on that? Is the Minister willing to set that deadline with others?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u28	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u29	I would like to ask that question in an informative manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u30	Once again, it is not related to this case, but I am nevertheless answering this question. There are no deadlines set out in Article 51. It is constantly carefully asking countries for information. As a Dutch government, we try to deal with this consistently. This applies not only to the case of the Turkish invasion in Afrin, but also to cases in the past. Other countries that are regularly discussed here also sometimes invade a neighbouring country. Then we often have to resort to Article 51. But we need to be a little consistent about that. If we do not condemn one country, we must be very careful to do so in another country. What's the size of things? The information available and the credibility of the recourse to Article 51. And let us be clear, I have already clearly pointed out to Mr Van Helvert that the information provided by Turkey to date is insufficient. No information justifying Article 51 has been provided at present. When is the moment when you say, "How long is it gonna take?" That can't be cut with scissors, but it's not infinite either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u31	Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I was not in the debate last week in which part of the Chamber asked for a higher tone from the Minister towards Turkey. I'll be there today. I note that part of the Chamber is now aware with great concern of the speed of this Minister. It could be in foreign policy! The VVD Group particularly wants to know where it stands with Turkey. There may not be a direct relationship between Afrin and what happened last March, but there is a direct relationship between Afrin and the actions of the Turks towards many allies, including the Netherlands. I would like to know from the Minister whether he is prepared to make it clear to the Turks, together with other allies in the next NATO defence, that they owe NATO an explanation of their military adventures in northern Syria. This means that we want to know whether Article 51 or any other justification can be found. I would like an answer from the Minister as soon as possible, but at least for the plenary debate that we are having next Thursday, if necessary in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u33	That answer will be given to the Chamber. As was changed last week, there is no ministerial but a NATO meeting today. The Netherlands together with Germany asked all kinds of questions. I think the Chamber has received a copy of that too, or else you will have it. Then you will also receive any answers we have already received. So I can promise you that. Then you can include that in the debate. We do indeed want that information, because it is an extremely uncomfortable situation for a NATO ally to invade an area where another NATO ally is also active. This is not so much the case in Afrin, but there are also statements to take action in the direction of Manjib. Then it gets a lot more complex. That is why we have great concerns in this area, and there is pressure on Turkey from the Netherlands and other countries to provide the information and clarify the intentions and where they are going. And is it proportional, too? We must not forget that question. What happens to the civilian population? We also hear disturbing noises about this, and we also need information about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr. Van der Staaij? Or was Mr Van Rooijen first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I note that this is a serious diplomatic step, which we understand by the way. I have a question for the Minister. He said: it is no longer about both sides' excuses, it is now about the future. But he also said: the Turks want a first gesture from the Netherlands? Isn't that another disguised "you have to apologize"? If not, how does the Minister see any mediation at any time? This is in line with Mr Ten Broeke's question on NATO. Is there any country that could help break this diplomatic impasse as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u36	This is a bilateral matter. So this is about something between the Netherlands and Turkey. In general, it makes very little sense to allow all kinds of others to intercede in it. In the end, it is the will of the Netherlands and Turkey. They will have to ensure that it normalizes. That has not been achieved at the moment. We have to make that observation. Nor should we make it too big, because once again, the charger remains active. There is an application from Turkey for a new Consul General in Deventer. It'll just be accredited. So we don't put the relationships in the freezer either, but we don't normalize to the level of ambassador. That is the consequence of last March. There are different views. Unfortunately, we have not been able to cross the border in a balanced way, as I call it, domestically and, above all, to look to the future. At some point you will find that talking through is no use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u37	Second supplementary question, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u38	The minister said that the Turks expect a first gesture from the Netherlands. Is that right? Is that why we're not gonna do that? And then we stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u39	That's right, that's what I just said. That strong wish was there. It is a wish that the Netherlands does not want to meet. That's a choice I'll make next. It needs to be balanced. Then we can look to the future. In the view of this Minister, there was no such balance. And then I am not going to take any responsibility for going to a normalization of relations. Either in balance or not. And it didn't turn out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u40	Support for the behaviour of the Dutch Government and of this minister when he says: we are not going to apologize. If that means the ambassador has to be withdrawn, so be it. At the same time, I do wonder what the future perspective is now. As you can see, the diplomatic ties are holding up. What interest is there ultimately on the Turks' side to come back to this? Or are you going to continue to have an endless situation where there is no ambassador on either side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u41	Turkey, at least they say, is keen to join the EU. To be honest, we have to say that they are farther away from the eligibility criteria than they have been for a very long time, and it is going in the wrong direction, but they do want it very much. Accession to the EU with distorted relations with an important Member State seems a little complicated to me. So I think they have an interest in it. We're a big trading partner. That too is something you want to improve at some point. So the door is open, but it is based on equivalence and not on different degrees. I think that is a justified situation from the Dutch point of view. If you really want to improve relations, I also say towards Turkey, then you should also be able to get over things. So if you want to create a imbalance, you're actually saying that you don't want to improve the relationship after all. Well, then we'll find out and then we'll stop the talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u42	Our NATO ally Turkey is allowed to invade a country without providing evidence of self-defense. Our NATO ally has the right to ignore the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The NATO alliance with Turkey is allowed to arrest journalists if they are critical of the Prime Minister. Our NATO ally Turkey is allowed to torture Kurdish farmers in Syria so that the army can find out if there is a terrorist in the hayshed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u43	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u44	All this is not bad enough for our cabinet, but when a minister drives her car into the Netherlands without a permit, we put the relationship on hold, on the pause button.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u45	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u46	My question is: how long will this minister allow President Erdogan to use this minister as a figurehead of the understanding of Turkey's invasion of Afrin...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u47	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u48	... because that's what Erdogan is doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u49	The Minister. The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u50	However, just to be clear: Turkey must not just lock people up, it must not invade northern Syria, it must not allow torture. All those things Mr Van Helvert mentions, Turkey is not allowed. There is no question of approving any case on the Turkish side, none from the cabinet. Let that be clear. It is part of the government's careful action that if we go to a NATO Member State, but frankly also to other countries, we say whether it is illegal in relation to Article 51 of the UN Charter or if we condemn it, as the original question was in Question Time two weeks ago... that is of a different order. That's what you need information for. That's why you have to take evidence. A number of messages on Twitter are not yet evidence. We want to do this carefully and well. But that is in no way the same thing as sorry, Mr President, that I am taking a little more time than approving this kind of thing. I would like to object, however, to the fact that the CDA seems to imply that the cabinet approves this. No way, no way! But this is without prejudice to the fact that the cabinet also has a responsibility to act with care internationally on behalf of the Netherlands. That's what we do. That is why we are asking questions. That is why, at some point, we will not hesitate to draw our conclusions if Turkey is unable to provide information, but carefully. Then we should not draw such conclusions, which are totally unrelated to them. The Netherlands does not approve of such matters at all. Mr Van Helvert knows that well. That violates every value in this country. That's what we need to keep going here, too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you.
