ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u1	We are going to the last question, from Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD, to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who replaces the Minister. The question is about the report that the mayor of Amsterdam has indicated that he will not enforce the burka ban law. I call Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we look at each other. We'll meet in front of each other. If you run into anyone, you want to know who you're dealing with and can address him or her, on the tram, at school, at the city hall. That's how we deal with each other in our open, free society. That's why it's uncomfortable when someone comes in with a burqa or a nikab, which you can't look at, which you can't address. It feels uncomfortable, because such a symbol of oppression is not part of the free Netherlands. But it also sometimes feels unsafe, just as it feels unsafe when someone with balaclava enters the tram or stops the integral helmet in a gas station. We want to be able to look at each other in the Netherlands. It is not for nothing that we have laid down the partial ban on facial clothing in the law. That law prohibits in public transport, in schools and in government buildings wearing a burka, but also a balaclava and an integral helmet. What really surprises me, Mr President, is that a number of mayors, with Femke Halsema of Amsterdam first, say before the law is in force: we are not going to enforce that law. But the law is the law, isn't it, even in Amsterdam? It is precisely when you, as mayor, are concerned about security and especially when you call yourself, as in the case of Mayor Halsema, progressive and say you are defending women's freedom, that you should want to uphold this law, because in the Netherlands it should never become normal for men to think that their women should be completely covered. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the law also applies to Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Utrecht and other cities in the Netherlands and that a municipality cannot decide for itself that this law will not be enforced? Can the Secretary of State promise the Chamber, on behalf of his colleague Ollongren, to speed up discussions with municipalities and sectors on the proper implementation of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u3	Then I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u5	Yes, you're replacing the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u6	I know. The difference is small, but there is a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u7	Look! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you for these questions. Those statements by the mayor of Amsterdam have provoked a great deal of indignation. I understand that, because the law applies throughout the Netherlands, and not only in certain parts of the Netherlands. That law also applies in Amsterdam. The statements of the mayor of Amsterdam are therefore not only premature but also inappropriate. They are inappropriate, because it is not appropriate for the mayor's office to make public in this example that the law is the law, but would not apply to everyone. Mrs Becker is right: this law is due to enter into force next year. It has not yet entered into force, but it is inappropriate to announce at this time that a law that can count on majorities in both chambers would not be implemented in one place. The second question was: can you promise to speed things up? I am well aware that a number of months have passed since the last time this law has been dealt with in the First Chamber. Those months have also been used to coordinate it interdepartmentally. On behalf of the Minister for the Interior, I would like to assure you that we will proceed as quickly as possible. I would point out, however, that there will still be consultations with a number of groups. That's also announced. That is also a commitment towards the First Chamber. After that, the First Chamber will be informed about the progress of those talks. I also think it would be very good to inform the House of Representatives about this. If the letter to be sent can then be dealt with quickly in both chambers, then the law can enter into force 1 July next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u9	I thank the Secretary of State for this clear answer. He also says that what Mayor Halsema said is inappropriate. I also hope that this has removed the image that the ban on facial clothing might be temporarily off the table, which I read in some newspapers or that it would not apply in some municipalities. The law is the law. I'm glad the Secretary of State says the same thing. Could he promise that we will receive a letter on the implementation of the law and the discussions that are currently taking place with the sector? Can the Secretary of State really speed up the introduction? I would like the law to be introduced by 1 January. But if that fails, can the Secretary of State at least guarantee that it will succeed by 1 July at the latest? Because then we are already a year on the road after the adoption of the law in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u10	As I have just said, I am well aware that it has taken some time. I have also promised on behalf of the Minister that we will take up the follow-up as soon as possible. There is a commitment towards the First Chamber about that consultation. There is also a commitment to inform the Upper House and, as far as we are concerned, also the Lower House. This will be done by spring at the latest. So the answer to that question is: yes, we can do that. Whether the entry into force will succeed on 1 July depends on possible follow-up treatments. I can't rule it out right now, because I don't know how the Chambers want to deal with it. I very much hope that it will be possible to enter into force on 1 July, because I think it is important that we get to work on this as soon as possible. Mrs Becker has asked: can it be done by 1 January? At least I can answer that question in the negative. I'm afraid that's not gonna work anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u11	Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for asking Minister Ollongren for speedy implementation. I hope he is also prepared to point out to Mr Koolmees, the Minister for Integration, that this is not just about security, but also about integration and about defending freedom in the Netherlands, especially for women who cannot do so themselves. That is why I hope not only that this law will be implemented quickly. I also hope that my motion on a broad action plan for self-determination (35000-XV, No. 15) is adopted today, because we all have to stand for freedom in the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u12	It's kind of an explanation of vote at the end, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. DENK stands for freedom. It wouldn't be my choice, but if women choose to walk the streets with a burqa from their freedom of religion, that's freedom as far as I'm concerned. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if there have been several cases in the past in which mayors state that they are not going to give priority to the enforcement of a law. Secondly, I ask him whether he realizes how many people are involved in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u14	I'm sure I'm aware of how many people we're dealing with. That makes the remark made by the Mayor of Amsterdam even more remarkable as far as I am concerned. It is not about a lot of people, but it is about the implementation of a law. It is not so much about prioritising enforcement, because the Mayor of Amsterdam has said: I do not intend to maintain it; I do not think it fits our city and so on and so on. These are comments that go beyond prioritising enforcement, which is by the way invested with the prosecutor and not with the mayor. It's a criminal matter. Several fronts have been driven from the wrong position here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u15	And the other question about the number of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u16	The number of people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u17	I answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u18	I didn't hear a number.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u19	No, I can't mention that number either, because I don't know exactly how many people they are. It is reported that at most a few hundred women are involved in this. If that is the case, that makes the remark made by the mayor of Amsterdam even more remarkable, because it would not be about thousands of people. It's about the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u20	Last question, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u21	To help the Secretary of State, there are about 300 women in the Netherlands. Before examining the legislative proposal in the Chamber, women have indicated in detail that it is about their own choice. That brings me to the question of what this prioritisation should look like. If we have confidence in local democracy, in the local authority, where mayors of Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Utrecht can also have the idea that they have to make other choices, that they do not want to use resources because they are such a relatively small group... Respects the Minister, pardon the Secretary of State, the choices made by the local authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr President, I respect the choices made by local authority in so far as they relate to matters of competence. In this case, it is about criminal enforcement. It is not up to the mayor in office to have an independent opinion on this in person. As I said, the law applies throughout the Netherlands, including in Amsterdam. That law has certain consequences and it is up to the triangle to determine a priority in it. This also applies to all cases which fall under the heading of criminal enforcement. So it is not up to this mayor and certainly not at this stage, when the law has yet to be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr. Chairman. To the number of burqas, nikabs, hidjabs and so on, everything that covers the face is only possible to see to what extent the vanguards of Islam have the power and expand in the Netherlands. The growth of this is a marker, it is something that shows to what extent Islamization is progressing in the Netherlands. This law is there for a reason. It is a security aspect, but it is also certainly a question of integration or actually assimilation, which we can pursue much better. It is an important law, especially for Amsterdam when we see how Amsterdam-West is in place. Can the Secretary of State, Mr President, I almost said again: the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, once again, answer the question of whether a mayor should enforce the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u24	Let me put it more precisely. This is a criminal enforcement case, which results from the law. It's not up to the mayor in person to take a position on that. It's on the triangle, and in this case, it's invested with the district attorney. Quite precisely: the law must be enforced, but it may also be so in the case of traffic offences that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office set priorities in where they are going to maintain them. This is widely regulated in the Netherlands and that is also true for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u25	Yeah, and then he...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr De Graaf, the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I might have been too quick, maybe too excited, too concerned about the case. The mayor of Amsterdam has indicated that I am not going to enforce this law. It will have to plead in the triangle for the enforcement of that law. That's her job. She has to uphold that law. After criticism from your cabinet, on various fronts and again, she has had time for days to take back her words and say: yes, I made a mistake, I am going to enforce the law. Then this mayor will have nothing left but resignation, and if she doesn't, the Secretary of State within the Crown will arrange for this mayor to pop up from Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u28	This reasoning... I understand the comment being made. At the same time, we have been absolutely clear, but also absolutely clear, that mayors, especially mayors in an exemplary role, have taken an oath and promised that they will be faithful to the Constitution, will comply with all laws and will fulfil the duty of mayor in all conscience. That's the mayor's oath. So the same goes for this mayor. There can't be a word of Spanish in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u30	I feel an intrusive conversation coming up at the next working meeting with this mayor. I very much wish the rulers strength and wisdom. But I'd like to take another angle. Of course it sounds very cool: this doesn't fit our city, so we're not going to maintain this and you're going to bypass a lot of things. This can also be a kind of flight forward, because it is not considered capable of achieving enforcement at all. Would the Secretary of State care to reflect on that? If so, how is that established and what is to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u31	This does not seem to me to be the biggest problem. If someone has facial clothing and that law is in force, let's assume the date of July 1st, then it's pretty easy to determine if someone wearing clothes is in violation. Whether it could not be done is not, in my view, the issue in question. It doesn't take a large-scale search. You find an offence, a criminal offence, and the D.A., the D.A., can take action against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u33	I think it is important to look at the tasks of the mayors, not just in Amsterdam. Also the mayors in Utrecht of the VVD and in Rotterdam of the PvdA have all said that they do not want to give priority to the enforcement of the burka ban. The Secretary of State says: something like this is decided in the triangle and a mayor is part of that too. Doesn't he think it is entirely appropriate for a mayor's responsibility to say what is or isn't given priority in terms of enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u34	No. When it comes to criminal enforcement, no. Why? Because that's part of the triangle. It's supposed to be discussed there. What is happening here is that, in anticipation of the entry into force of a law, a statement is made in public in the office of mayor which cannot be made on its own from that office. That is why the pronunciation is not only premature, but also inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u35	No, Mrs. Buitenweg. You can't do that. Then I will go to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mayor Halsema's ruling goes beyond a comment on priorities. She just said we're not gonna do this. It is nonsense to say that it is a priority. As with the smoking ban or other cases, you don't need a big police effort at all. These are all kinds of rules that the tram conductor himself can maintain and so on. What is happening here - and I think you just admitted it yourself - is that a mayor is announcing his intention to violate the oath of office. I was so curious, you haven't been explicit about it yet, if she doesn't come to terms with it very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u37	It seems premature to answer this question. I understand the question. I'm replacing Secretary Ollogren here. I'm sure he'll start that conversation. I'm not going to anticipate that. Perhaps the mayor of Amsterdam will also say something about this. I don't know. In any case, we relate so much to each other that I answer here in the Chamber about the government's policy. On that point, I can say that we consider these statements inappropriate and that it is not appropriate for the mayor's office to do so in this capacity. What happens after that, we'll see. In my view, at least I have been clear about what our view is, so that in the end this cannot last. In the end, it is not possible for the Mayor of Amsterdam to stick to this position, because with that you said the net itself, it does not act in accordance with the law and the law applies everywhere. Not only in The Hague, but also in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u38	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u39	You say clearly: the mayor of Amsterdam must come around and just obey the law, because that is her job as mayor. That's very clear. But for a moment, because we can of course also see in Dutch law what the sanctions might be. Is there anything you can tell us about that? I think the Dutch people have a right to know what will happen if Halsema doesn't come around very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u40	I maintain my position that the mayor, as is the case for everyone, must abide by the law. The mayor must take full account of the effect of statements she makes, which indeed say: I do not intend to maintain, from her particular role and also exemplary role and position. That is quite different from saying: I am going to discuss in the triangle what is priority and what is not. There's a real difference. I assume that these statements will be revoked in practice and that the mayor, like everyone else, will comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
