ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u2	I would like to raise the issue of the budget for external trade and development cooperation, which is the last budget the House of Representatives is discussing this year. I welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in our midst. I have agreed with the MPs that we are doing interruptions in one place. Everyone gets six possibilities to ask a short, clear question. That could be three in two, but it could be six times one. That's the maximum. I'll see if all the questions have been answered correctly, of course. Then we move on to the second term and all the groups know how much time they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u3	I would like to ask the Minister to take his place behind the cathedral and pronounce her first term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Chamber for the questions asked, the input and the clear comments and comments made in the first period. I would also, of course, like to thank Mr Stoffer of the SGP for his thoughtful remarks, which I would like to quote from my colleagues and myself: 'a good dose of wisdom and playfulness'. We need that every day, especially when we look at the development around us. Mr. Chairman. Before the summer recess, I already spoke to your Chamber about the letter Investing in perspective. We are five months ahead and we are working hard on the implementation, the implementation of the policy as it has been included in the separate trade agenda. That is the first action-oriented agenda for Foreign Trade for years. I'd like to mark that. Today, we are talking about its impact in the external trade and OS budget as well. I would like to begin my answer to the questions briefly and then I have the answer in ten blocks, which are as follows. For the convenience of Members of Parliament, I would like to mention them. 1. Humanitarian aid and reception in the region 2. Education, employment and income 3. The debate on root causes, including relevance to policy coherence 4. Gender equality, women's rights and SRGR 5. Geographical focus in Development Cooperation 6. Civil society 7. Climate, water and food security 8. Support for business and the wider trade agenda 9. International Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 10. The wider trade policy. Mr. Chairman. As you know, the Sustainable Development Goals are the framework of foreign trade and development cooperation policy. They cover the issues of the present and the coming decades. Poverty, poverty reduction, climate change and, of course, always human rights, as included in the agenda. The SDGs are an inclusive agenda that will require everyone's efforts. Not just from the government or governments, but from civil movements, civil society organisations, scientists, companies and actually a whole range of people who see opportunities to play a role. For Dutch entrepreneurs, these sustainable development goals are an opportunity to strengthen their position abroad. They also provide a proper and substantive link between the agenda of aid and trade, two sides of the agenda that I am equally keen on and for work with my colleagues. In the coming year, too, I look forward to broadening the fields of activity in partnerships. Mr. Chairman. Foreign trade and investment are, of course, very important for our economy. We all know that. They strengthen innovation capacity and deliver prosperity and jobs. I think that as Foreign Trade Minister, I am well aware of the responsibility I bear to strengthen the earning capacity of our business abroad. I'll do that day in, day out. These are innovative companies, SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, start-ups and companies that are trying to come up with the smartest solution for socially important international issues such as the circular economy, an end to plastic, ocean cleaning. There is a range of options and possibilities. They work in established markets and emerging economies, as well as in developing countries. Of course, we show this most clearly, we display this, through the economic missions. I myself spent the last year in Vietnam, Malaysia, China, India, Lithuania and Germany, and in the coming week I am going on a special mission to Belgium, one with only female entrepreneurs. Their interest and their role are also important. But I'm not doing that trade agenda alone. Cabinet members have done 12 broad economic missions this year alone. The Minister of Infrastructure and Water State was on a mission in Poland last month and the Prime Minister is, as has already been discussed, now with a political and economic mission in Colombia, together with the Minister of Agriculture. These are just examples. It also shows that, of course, we are committed to economic diplomacy. We want to do more there in coordination with regional authorities in the Netherlands, industry and knowledge institutions, with the top sectors. Strategic alignment is just as important as the best idea for the best place. Thinking together about the long term, that's what it's about. Coordination is a very important element here, including in the role played by colleagues, staff and foreign trade. At the same time, a lot is happening in the world. The actuality confirms time and time again that we can't sit still. We don't have to respond. In particular, we must also be able to anticipate and be ready to respond with the right means, including in crisis areas. Of course, we are also looking at the Brexit and emerging protectionism in the world, which also puts considerable pressure on our trading system and the World Trade Organisation. These are all elements that are important for the Netherlands as a trading country. This is, of course, the earning side, the economic side, but there is clearly also a prevention side to my agenda, and I would like to talk about this briefly before I continue with the cubes. That is the deepening of the sustainable development goals. Because now, today, when you open the newspapers, you see that the number of armed conflicts has increased again in the last ten years. Millions of people are fleeing or will flee and more people worldwide are starving again. Looking ahead for ten years, these developments and their consequences will put an extra strain on the already most vulnerable, poor and fragile countries and, of course, that is what we are talking about, their citizens. There are developments like climate change. There is also population growth, which means that there will be more and more young people on the labour market who do not have any prospects for employment. That's incredibly important. This development motivates us to want to tackle root causes. This is what we do with a long-term vision, the 2030 agenda. It is not just about political adaptation and mitigation, but also about the proper analysis of the risks and, of course, about the creation of opportunities and prospects within a human rights framework. For who are ultimately important in our actions? Who do we do it for? These are the most vulnerable, especially young people: women, girls and boys. The young people and especially the girls I know that this is widely shared in this Chamber are our chance to make something better out of future society. That is also why this cabinet places an extra emphasis on basic and vocational education in the new policy. Investing in education benefits not only the individual, but also society. Investing in education means investing in society's agility. But we also have other opportunities, due to the ongoing technological developments. Last year, the World Bank presented its annual World Development Report, the World Development Report 2019, on the future of work. It is clear that digitisation and robotisation are going to change the nature of work. We actually see this around us, even when we go to the supermarket, or wherever we shop. This obviously affects our competitiveness and employment in the Netherlands, but it will also have consequences for developing countries. Low wages no longer mean a competitive advantage. However, the World Bank report does not necessarily gloomy. The character of work will change, but work will not disappear and there is the crux. The World Bank makes a number of recommendations, the most important of which is investing in education and human capital, in cognitive skills and in adaptability. Future jobs will therefore be required. That is why this investment remains so important. I come to my conclusion of this introduction, Mr. Chairman. Today, of course, we are talking about the budget, which is the implementation mechanism which enables me to implement the objectives and direction of the substantive note. This is, of course, about the development cooperation budget. This cabinet invests again in the wider foreign policy. This is also evident in the budget for development cooperation. A number of MPs have already asked for the 0.7% of the ODA budget of the official development cooperation budget in their own contributions or in their introduction. We are investing in additional development cooperation in the light of this objective. My note clearly describes where a possible additional follow-up step for development cooperation can be considered in relation to other policy priorities within the budgetary frameworks. However, ODA is not the only answer, because there remains a huge funding gap between what is needed and what is available through the official channels for the sustainable development goals. Unctad, the UN Development Organisation, estimates that an additional $2,500 billion will have to be invested every year to realise the SDGs. This cannot be achieved by governments alone or almost not. We need private parties, we need proper taxation, we need a fight against corruption in the countries themselves. There are a lot of opportunities to create additional funding. This also forces us to use the limited public budget much smarter; ODA as a lever to mobilise other resources. I am also saying this in relation to a question put by Mr Stoffer. In this way, we must encourage the energy of our parties, companies, knowledge institutions to provide smart, innovative, efficient solutions that reduce costs, solutions for sustainability and economic growth in developing countries. This is exactly the apple of SDG 17. There were a number of talks about who is the champion or advocate of the SDGs. I seem to recall that Mr Bram van Ojik van GroenLinks is the advocate of SDG 17. I see there's nodding now. SDG 17 is precisely about that partnership of everyone to help achieve sustainable development and a better world in this case. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to continue with the cubes now. I will also go straight into the questions raised by your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u5	That's what we're gonna do. But there is an interruption by Mr Voordewind first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u6	Since this is the end of the introduction to trade and development cooperation, I would like to ask a general, broader question about that budget. The Minister says, of course, it is more than just the 0.7%. But, of course, we've committed to that 0.7% once. That is what the Minister did in her note, and we are very pleased about that. I actually put the same question to the Minister of Defence, then on the NATO standard of 2.0%. In addition, the Minister of Defence stated that he had the ambition to take steps, if possible, in this cabinet period as well. I now put the same question to this Minister. If there are possibilities, is this minister also in the front line to see if we can still take another step towards that 0.7%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u7	This is a nice question. Thank you for that. If there are possibilities within the budgetary framework, I will, of course, not abandon them. I will then take the opportunity to debate this, also of course, in order to maintain that support within the cabinet with colleagues. But there's always a much broader consideration. Of course, I agree with what the Minister of Defence said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u8	You'll be on your first block, about humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u9	Exactly. That block is about humanitarian aid and reception in the region. A number of members of your Chamber called for attention to be paid to the humanitarian needs of the world. Country situations were rightly appointed. I think we all know that persistent conflicts, new disasters, but also the consequences of climate change, will only increase the needs. Every year this is demonstrated by the appeals, the requests for funding and support that come to us through Dutch organisations, but also through the UN. We are calling for an integrated approach to create sustainable solutions. In the financial field, of course, we are providing more support for the relief of direct humanitarian needs in the form of food aid, the provision of drinking water supplies, shelter, but also by providing health care and psychosocial support, including for those who have to stay in long-term care. Because the circumstances under which they do so are often abominable. You wouldn't wish for anything like that. But it is also a question of diplomatic commitment to promote the political solution. We are committed to promoting dialogue and finding lasting solutions to conflicts, but always taking into account the role of vulnerable groups such as girls, children, the elderly and people living with disabilities, who are victims of conflict and who will be the proverbial child. We also call for access for humanitarian workers. You have seen this this year in all the talks that have taken place in the UN Security Council. The Netherlands is known with Sweden and a number of other countries for its constructive and critical role and the attention we always demand for humanitarian access and principles of humanitarian law. Of course, we also match this with our financing of direct humanitarian aid. In this context, Mr Voordewind asked whether we could identify the scale of psychosocial problems in humanitarian emergencies. Unfortunately, we know how to deal with it, because according to the World Health Organisation, one in four people currently face psychological problems in a humanitarian crisis. 90% of them need treatment, but most of them are not present. The capacity isn't there. In the case of Syria, we know that hospitals are being attacked. Doctors are the victims themselves. Capital destruction is also literally done by the warring parties, in this case of human capital. We've always drawn attention to this at the highest level, in all our conversations. I have also decided, as you can remember from the note, that the Netherlands will embrace this as a special initiative because of the recognised lack of capacity, the importance and because we do not just want to help people survive until the moment of return. We want to do education, health care, but also healing the soul, to express it a little old-fashioned. It is precisely through psychosocial support that we do not want to abandon people. We are working on an international initiative, together with the WHO, the Red Cross and other partners. The Netherlands has a variety of experts, especially on this theme, who are internationally renowned. We are working on an initiative that is politically but also programmed and financially embedded in all humanitarian planning and thus in implementation. It's gonna take some work. The conference is hopefully in October 2019. I shall inform this Chamber accordingly. Then I go straight on to a very tragic crisis situation, although I do not want to compare it with the other. I am referring, of course, to the situation in Yemen. We all know the pictures of the emaciated children, their parents, the families. The situation is inhumane. Our enormous concern remains, of course. That's what we're saying in the Security Council. We want to keep Yemen active on the agenda. We have made every effort to contribute to a dialogue to achieve a ceasefire and allow access to humanitarian aid. We are doing this both at EU level and at the United Nations Human Rights Council. You may know the contribution of the Netherlands. EUR 21.8 million is available for humanitarian aid through the DRA and also through the UN, with special attention to the major problem of malnutrition or imminent famine. In reply to Mr Kuzu's question, we are also calling for the implementation and implementation of the resolution on conflict and hunger. For the first time, the Security Council has managed to get this issue on the agenda and adopted as a resolution. As you know, there was a great deal of opposition from a number of permanent members of the Security Council. It is now important to work on implementation and to see how we can put countries or individuals along the measuring line of this resolution. This is not easy, but the political commitment is there. We will continue to do so, even though we will no longer be in the Security Council from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u10	I'm glad to hear that. This means that this Minister is going to implement the motion adopted by the Chamber last week, so that the resolution is being implemented and the Netherlands is going to work on imposing sanctions on those and those entities responsible for starvation in Yemen. I'd like to hear more about that by letter. My question is about the following, and that also has to do with Yemen. The Minister said it himself: it is horrible, but there is also a earning model behind this. After all, arms companies earn billions from arms trafficking in Saudi Arabia, which drops these weapons in Yemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u11	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u12	According to research by the Fair Insurance Guide, five major insurers invest 3.6 billion in large arms companies that supply Saudi Arabia among others. My question is: is the Minister prepared to sit down with these insurers to discourage them from investing any longer in these dubious companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u13	I come back to this under number 9, international social responsibility and policy coherence. I will also address Mrs Karabulut's question in particular, because I also see the role of insurance companies when it comes to investing in the arms industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u14	That's good. Can the Minister confirm the first point? Could it perhaps, along with the Foreign Minister, who is going to work in the EU to impose sanctions against starvation, work in the UN Security Council on the implementation of that fine resolution? Or maybe she already has?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u15	In principle, of course, we are committed to the implementation of the resolution. The Netherlands has invested an enormous amount of political capital in this. We didn't just do that; we did that because we think it is extremely important. We are now going to get in touch with Germany and Belgium, because these are the two incoming European non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, with the aim of continuing to take this issue with us. So our role will be different in the run-up to the UN Human Rights Council elections and within the EU. But I would like to return with the details in the second term, because I would like to see what my colleague Mr Blok has confirmed. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bouali and Mr Kuzu also asked about what the Netherlands has discussed and can do in relation to Myanmar. They asked in particular about the situation of the Rohingya refugees: what humanitarian effort can be made there and was delivered there? The refugees that I myself spoke to in Bangladesh I was very clear in Cox's Bazar. They wanted, like almost every refugee or internally displaced person, education, access to health care and a safe living environment. In this case, especially the women were very clear. They said that we are not going back if our security cannot be guaranteed and the UNHRC cannot be there to be an independent witness to the events. That was very clear. We also mentioned this in our talks with Aung San Suu Kyi. There has also been talk with the General, who of course has also been mentioned in the report of the fact-finding mission of the UN. It's very clear. We have not only expressed our concerns; we have set very clear frameworks, namely that we attach great importance to the continuation of impunity, that we support the reporting of the fact-finding mission and that we will use it in all frameworks, and that at the same time we certainly expect the civil government Aung San Suu Kyi to make an effort to enable the return of the Rohingya under acceptable conditions and approved by UNHCR and others. We also call internationally for the list of sanctions to be extended. While we are still in the UN Security Council, we are still focusing on referral to the International Criminal Court. This remains difficult in view of the Council's field of action, but this is without prejudice to our commitment and political commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u16	A question from Mr Kuzu. It's gonna take him a while to get to the microphone, 'cause he's gonna have to walk for a while. There you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One less interruption, huh? No, I'm not. It is nice that at least the Minister himself has been on the spot to take stock of the situation and to speak to people. An important concern of people is indeed that they are forced to return without guaranteeing the security situation. I would like to ask the Minister whether she also sees the need at UN level to demand a safe return of people or to do something about it, so that it is not forced to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u18	The return of refugees is in principle always voluntary with respect for human dignity and the conditions of return. These are also the points that the Syrian refugees in the region of Syria themselves are demanding, and this is always confirmed by the UNHCR. There is never a forced return when it comes to refugees who are considering returning themselves. Individual cases of return always take place, but that is an individual consideration and then those people are accompanied and helped and it is confirmed that it is done on a voluntary basis. This is actually the default mode operandi.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u19	According to our information, in the middle of November, a week and a half ago, there was a series of compulsory repatriation, agreed by Bangladesh and Myanmar. May I ask the Minister if that's true?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u20	Our information was that it did not take place in the end, also because of political problems between Bangladesh and Myanmar. A large number of refugees had been listed, or volunteered. Some of them may have made use of this option, but this has not been done in cooperation with UNHCR. It was a group of 2,600 or 2,300, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u21	The fact is that this has happened. It was 2,600 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u22	I don't know. It was a group that was on a list. Our information was that it didn't happen, but if Mr. Kuzu has any other information, we'd be happy to hear it. The Dutch government's commitment is that it is only voluntary and supervised by the UN. Mr. Chairman. There was a question from Mrs Kuik about the implementation of her motion on combating sexual exploitation and prostitution, especially among refugees. As the socio-economic situation of the refugee families changes, and of course mostly deteriorates, girls are often married out sooner or too early and also placed in a position that is only relapsed from prostitution. I refer first of all to my letter of 13 November. We continue to work towards an integrated approach to preventing and combating sexual exploitation, survival prostitution, child marriages and other forms of sexual abuse. I'll report to the Chamber regularly on progress. Mr Bouali and Mrs Van den Hul asked about the wider issue of reception in the region and the role of UNHCR. The structural intensifications provided for in the emergency aid and reception budget in the region do not affect the contribution to UNHCR. It stays the same for several years. There is also a partnership for reception in the region, which is part of UNHCR. Together with the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation, IFC, UNICEF and the International Labour Organisation, we are looking at protection, education, but also at creating work in the Syrian region and the Horn of Africa. We believe that this is an important contribution to the sustainable improvement of the situation of refugees and internally displaced persons, as well as of host communities, which is also important for social cohesion and balance. Refugees usually stay with those who already have a hard time and are poorest, so the pressure on those communities is very high. The plan is that in 2018-2019, thanks to Dutch support, 275,000 children in these countries have access to education and other training, and to education that prepares them to go back to school, because they often missed a number of years in class due to conflict situations. But there is still a structural lack of funding. A question has also been asked about the guarantee of quality; whether it complies with UNHCR standards. On the one hand, I must say: yes, because UNHCR organises this itself and sets it up, but of course they always want more. There is not enough funding and therefore it remains unpredictable, difficult to learn and 50% of children are still not in school.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u23	We know that this cabinet invests heavily in care in the region. We also know that the Minister expressed her disgust at the situation in Libya, which she herself saw. Unfortunately, there are many more places where people live in degrading conditions, in camps. Does the Minister not see how many of those camps to which we contribute, whether at EU level or not, do not meet the requirements of UNHCR?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u24	The question is actually even more difficult, because in many countries many refugees are not really staying in camps anymore. They have refugee status, they are registered and they are entitled to support, but not every country allows a camping situation. Many don't. So the refugees go into the poorest neighbourhoods of a city or stay elsewhere and often move within the country two or three times after the first flight. So it's even more complex. The basic package of UNHCR is known to Mrs Van den Hul. What matters is, of course, the longer term. Yesterday, I believe, Mrs Kuik rightly referred to a number. The average refugee often stays at a place of shelter in the region for seventeen years. Of course, that's a very long time. That's a generation, almost more than a generation. Its quality, of course, does not meet all the standards we would like to set. So we need to do more. That is why, together with UNHCR and other humanitarian partners, we are committed to innovative funding. As a result, more money is available to secure longer-term support and so we can do more. But if that's possible, the refugee himself wants to get to work. We also know that if someone in the family has a living wage, the family itself can make more of that temporary stay where it is forced by conflict or other circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u25	A second question from Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u26	However, as far as minimum requirements are concerned. I realize what the Minister is saying. It's often a long stay. But we all have the images from Libya on the retina, don't we? People were in a poignant situation there. It appeared that the UNHCR's minimum requirements were far from being met. I am therefore asking whether it is possible, in one way or another, to provide an inventory of camps which, in any case, will receive aid through the Netherlands or at European level. Then we can see how many of those camps that standard is really not being reached at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u27	First of all, let me say that I will return to this in the second term. This requires a little more study and consultation with UNHCR. Of course, it is about regions, it is about areas, it is about expectations. One refugee situation is not the other. So I think this is almost a research question for someone at the university. But of course we need to know this too, and I think that information is available. I would just like to say that detention in Libyan camps is, of course, of a different nature than voluntary residence or a refugee camp forced to stay. The comparison doesn't quite go there. I'm done with the block of humanitarian aid and shelter in the region, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to move on to education, work and income. Education, of course, gives everyone the chance to get a grip on their life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u28	But first a question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u29	I still miss the answer to our question as to why we deleted our voluntary contribution to the UNHCR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u30	Deleted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u31	At least reduced, from 40 to 33 million euros. Maybe I missed it, but I didn't hear it. So maybe another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u32	I think I indicated that in the written reply I sent to the Chamber. My officials are nodding it now. I shall come back to that in second place. What I remember, in any case, is that our standard contribution is the voluntary contribution to UNHCR's core budget, the core budget, a certain amount. There are amendments to this, and there is still a one-off decision to raise it over a certain period of time. It's all gonna happen. This is the standard amount. At the beginning of the year the situation is A, at the end of the year that point C can be reached. That is also the case with the UNHCR. UNHCR is one of the most important partners in the whole range of reception in the region. So indeed, we are not looking to reduce the UNHCR. Then we'd cut ourselves in the fingers. Education, of course, gives the ultimate opportunity to get a grip on and shape your life. It's an investment in the future. We all agree on this. It increases the chances of choosing your own job, but it is also a form of resilience, especially for girls, against exploitation and risk of sexual violence. I would just like to refer to the World Bank and the report 'The Human Capital Project', which reiterates the essential importance of developing social competences and investment in human capital. That's a report from this year. Education is also an investment in freedom of choice. That is why I would like to return to an interesting debate that the Chamber held yesterday, on the questions of population growth and return on investment, the return on investment. Women's access to contraception is certainly important as part of their emancipation. The same applies to the right to decide on the moment of time, the timetable and the number of children they can or want to have. In practice, access will only be achieved in conjunction with many other policy bodies and policies. Of course, the Netherlands is always working on this for its own citizens: education, rights, quality of health care and access to justice. For example, look at health care and the debates on the vaccination of children. But there are no simple, simple solutions. Social and economic development is linked and calls for a combination of interventions and services. Of course, this also applies more broadly, even when you talk about the focus on financial returns. Purely financial returns can never be the main guiding principle for important policy choices involving human lives at stake. For this, the situations we are working on are too complex, too different and the choices too important, especially in the long term. Ultimately, it is about social-political choices about people and human capital. Cost-benefit analyses are useful if you have to choose between two concrete issues, for example in relation to two sections for a railway line. But what if it gets harder and harder? What do we do about women's rights? What do we do about reception in the region? What is our approach to climate action? A pure cost-benefit analysis wouldn't do you much good. Then you have to look at the necessary commitment in coherence, determine what has the highest urgency from a political and social point of view, and choose which approach works best. Mr. Chairman. Mr Voordewind and Mrs Kuik asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u33	I am actually pleased with the Minister's explanation. Can we conclude that you agree with the VVD that there should always be an integrated approach, and that the concept of "efficiency" does not only have to be financial, but can also have a social and climate aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u34	Yeah, but I don't think I needed to be convinced! Perhaps Mr Van Haga is asking himself that question, so I would like to hear his confirmation of my analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u35	Well, he'll be able to do that on his own term, I suggest. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr Voordewind and Mrs Kuik asked about the Challenge Fund for Youth Employment. In line with the motion of the CDA and the Christian Union, the fund will indeed contribute to the prospect of a future for young people in the focus regions, by focusing on jobs and encouraging them to undertake. The Fund will also focus on improving the integration of vocational education and training into the labour market, for example by contributing to placements, not milking jobs, and learning jobs. The fund is open to innovative proposals from civil society organisations, so here again there is an opportunity for Dutch NGOs, companies and knowledge institutions or consortia of them. They have a lot of ideas. I encourage that, too. I think it is also important to include Dutch society in this, given their ideas and strength of action. In the same period, Mrs Kuik asked for a greater role for the EU, especially in the provision of education for refugees and host communities. I can assure you that the EU plays an important role in this. We, as the Netherlands, are really committed to this. I have seen it myself in a number of countries where I have lived and worked. It is precisely the EU that can come up with much greater funding flows and technical expertise. We'll find the connection. That's much more important too. Because of the money and flows the EU can provide, the EU can also play a political role in creating opportunities for refugees, but also for its own host communities. That is also very important here. So I see that voice as very valuable. Then I'm done with the head of education, work and income, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u37	Yes, but we have another question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u38	I was curious for a second. We finance a lot of education. That is one of the priorities of the Minister's policy. Is Islamic education financed with Dutch commitment somewhere, perhaps under the guise of "Islamic education is always better than no education at all"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u39	All these educational flows are financed in principle in cooperation with UNICEF. Of course, you depend on the role of the local government. It depends on the country. I can't say exactly. Of course, we are assuming quality education. We want children to learn how to read, write and calculate, how to write their names, how to get a diploma from the country's educational system. We do not put any religious, ethnic or other characteristic behind it. It is about quality and guarantees by the government itself or by, for example, a UN organisation. If you would like examples of how it works in a number of countries, I would like to come back to that in the second term. It is also available on OpenNet; all sources that Mrs Van Weerdenburg consults can also be found there. But we do not focus on Islamic education; we do not focus on Christian education or Buddhist education. We're focusing on education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u40	A second question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u41	I understand that, but the Minister has just spoken in the block about, for example, education in the areas of contraception, family planning and women's rights. It seems to me relevant whether this happens in Islamic or Buddhist education, because in Islamic education, let's call it a beast. In that sense, it is relevant. I am pleased that the Minister is committed to giving further information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u42	But in primary education, primary education for refugee children and children in care, sexual education, sexual reproduction and sexual rights are not so much addressed. This may happen in the Netherlands at primary school, but I would say that it does not happen in the average country. Lebanon, where I last worked, has a Christian president and has the largest Christian minority in the Middle East. They do not necessarily need primary education on this type of text. It depends on the cultural context. In many countries this is not necessarily a theme. We're talking about population groups that are older, girls between 12 and 15. That's what special centers are for. This will be dealt with by the UN organisation UNFPA. But I would like to offer a few examples, because of course they are important questions. Then I will continue on the topic of root causes and coherence. Mrs Karabulut asked what the Netherlands is actually doing about the root causes. I do not want to highlight more than what the note is aimed at: perspective, opportunities, entrepreneurship and, of course, combating the consequences of exclusion or social inequality. We know, of course, from the many evaluations what the decisive factors are. I thought from Mrs Karabulut's question that she spoke of what she called "the gap" or "the two faces" of Dutch aid and trade: that on the one hand we invest, in which she saw a self-interest for the Netherlands, and that on the other hand there was a gift, which would then possibly counteract the consequences of our own actions or lack of action. I hope I understood the question correctly. It also referred to the situation in Yemen. The question was how that relates to each other and what weighs the hardest. In this respect, the Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Note must be seen in conjunction with the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Defence Note of my colleague, Mr Bijleveld, but we are of course also working on development cooperation because of the fight against root causes. That is not an instrumentalisation of a foreign agenda. We do this because we want to achieve the sustainable development goals. If you look at the discussions we often have in the article 100 context, you will see that the Netherlands worked in many countries before a Dutch mission was ever present and we will continue to work there after a Dutch mission may have announced its departure. So there is a role, if I may say so, in international cooperation through development cooperation. In particular, the spagate that was appointed referred to the situation in Yemen. You were wondering whether it was not asking for a national arms embargo and whether, for example, I wanted to take steps towards insurers investing in the arms industry. I would, of course, like to say first of all that the Dutch arms export policy was already very restrictive. The cabinet has tightened this even further. The presumption of denial, i.e. the assumption of refusal already in force for supplies to the air force and Saudi Arabia's ground forces, is now also valid for the United Arab Emirates and Egypt for all parts of the armed forces, including the Navy. This means that no goods are exported to those countries unless it is absolutely clear that they cannot or will not be used in the fight in Yemen. As you know, and as I believe has been discussed with Minister Blok, an arms embargo really makes a difference in a larger context. The Netherlands is calling for real attention to be paid to this in the EU, and my colleague, Mr Blok, does so in the Foreign Affairs Council and in the UN Security Council. Unfortunately, there is still insufficient support for this. Let me turn now to a question that was asked earlier on the first block. I myself am prepared to discuss with insurers in the context of international corporate social responsibility and compliance with the OECD guidelines for multinational companies and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights to discuss with them their commitment and the frameworks of their policies, especially when it comes to the issue of "controversial arms trade'. It is up to them to act in accordance with the OECD guidelines, but I will enter into that conversation. Before I could answer that question, I had to say this first. I hope you understand. Then I would like to continue with Mr Stoffer's question on our efforts to combat impunity. I think we all share his view that impunity is worrying and that SDG 16, acountabillity and the promotion of peaceful inclusive and just societies are prominent. When I worked at the UN myself, SDG 16 was my favourite, because as far as I am concerned it is the core, especially when it comes to broken societies where the risks are greater, in order to achieve peace-building. As co-chair of the international task force on justice, I apologize for all that English so called the international task force on justice, we are organising a major international conference in the Netherlands in February. It will also lead to further steps. Of course, we also work internationally and nationally with partners to combat impunity and provide justice for the victims. In this context, I refer to the evidence bank for Syria, the international centre for transnational justice and the watch on impunity, i.e. Impunity Watch. Some translations are a bit artificial, I'm afraid, because those organizations are known by an English name. I don't know if they recognize themselves in my translation anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u43	I appreciate you trying to use the Dutch translation as much as possible. Very nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u44	Amnesty, for example, is called Amnesty. But thank you, I will continue to do my best. I would like to move on to the issue of gender equality, women's rights and sexual rights and health rights (SRGR).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u45	We will do so after Mr Stoffer's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u46	I have an interruption following the Minister's answer to my question. Thanks for the answer. My question was whether this could also be made an explicit objective for all diplomatic posts. That sounds like it to me, but I would just like to have it explicitly confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u47	I can't explicitly confirm that here. I don't think that's correct. I would like to discuss this with my colleague Mr Blok. It is, of course, foreign policy, it is the diplomats. He's the Secretary of State. But Mr Stoffer can assume that in all countries where this is relevant, this is a key issue in Dutch action and in the post of diplomat. In some countries this is, of course, more pertinent than in others. You can imagine that we do not take this with us in OECD countries, but in many conflict or post-conflict situations this is the case. I am happy to discuss this with my colleague Mr Blok and I am looking for another time to report back on this. But the fact that we are presidents of an international conference does, of course, indicate that the entire ministry and the rest of the government are keen on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u48	I thank the Minister for the answer and I assume that this is in every Dutchman's DNA at a diplomatic post. But I'd like to hear more about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u50	Next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u51	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I would like to continue with the block on gender equality, women's rights and SRGR, as I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u52	Perhaps you could explain "SRGR."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u53	Then it's about sexual and reproductive health and rights. I just named it. Investing in women is investing in the development and socio-economic growth of each society. This is true in the Netherlands, and also worldwide. Gender equality is not just a question of development cooperation. It is something we must do everywhere, within companies, within Parliament and in peacekeeping missions. Many studies show that decision-making processes are much more effective and yield much more returns if women are a full team member at all levels. But in many countries that is still not the case. That is why we, as the Netherlands, are committed to this. Women's and girls' rights are being violated. Their potential is denied if they are not allowed to go to school or are forced to fall out after a few years of forced marriage at a young age. Unfortunately, one in three women still have to deal with forms of violence, physical violence or sexual violence. This stems, among other things, from the unequal power relations between men and women. This is a social problem that demands and demands global attention and that should be explicitly addressed. That's why I was behind the Binnenhof to open the Orange the World campaign, Make the world orange, together with the mayor of The Hague, Pauline Krikke. The Binnenhof has been lighted orange for 16 days in the evening for a reason. It was from November 25 and it will end on the International Human Rights Day on December 10th. It's more than symbolism. It is a voice and an assignment to work hard on it, including in the programmes we are working on. We do that with a lot of partners. I also know that this is widely supported in this Parliament. I naturally agree with Mrs Diks van GroenLinks that genital mutilation of girls is also a terrible expression of violence. We cannot emphasise enough how important public attention should remain on this issue. Awareness must be increased and it must be made negotiable, especially in the communities where this may pose a risk to girls. They must recognise the problem, act and tackle this form of violence. I come back to all the amendments in my second term, but since it is a starting point for the amendment to the Multiparty Initiative, I would like to say that I am referring to the amendment to item No. 23 heartfelt support. I would like to say to Mr Bouali that the budget for SRGR, including HIV and AIDS, has already been increased by EUR 10 million per year from 2018. For the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 there was a temporary additional increase, following the amendments tabled in this Chamber and, inter alia, following policy decisions about SheDecides, co-founded by my predecessor Lilianne Ploumen, and the global fund that fights AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. So it's always fluctuations that are normal in a spending round. There's no reduction. We're back at a point. We are still waiting for the global fund's investment plan. We cannot decide on a plan that has not yet been received. Of course, we always look at this organisation and other organisations to be able to implement these themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u54	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her speech on gender and its importance, including in her note. We very much welcome that. Indeed, I understand that there is a temporary increase under Article 3.1 for SRGR. But when I look at the budget and the figures, I see that it is 444 million for 2018 and 430 million for 2019. So that's 14 million less. By 2020, it will be 426 million. That's another four million less. That's the only thing I didn't get right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u55	I was just trying to explain. The amount of 2018 is already including the amendments of previous years. We have now budgeted for the future. This concerns amounts that are already fixed. Should there still be fluctuations and should I decide in the future that I want to raise the amounts on the basis of requests, countries, situations, we work with, for example, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Global Facility.......................................................................................................................................... But we also want to know what works. This is a hell of a lot of money. I do not think that a move of EUR 440 million, before amendments have been tabled in the next financial year, will mean a real reduction. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to move on to the geographical focus of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u56	I see there are some questions about the last block. I think Mrs Van den Hul was the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u57	The Minister replied in writing that there are indeed a number of different international initiatives already in place to combat violence against women and that the Netherlands is contributing to this, fortunately. This is all about combating and tackling violence against women in general. That is very important, but that is not what Mr Mukwege, whom we met last week, meant. He specifically referred to a fund for victims of sexual violence, which is often not given the recognition and satisfaction they deserve because of taboo, shame and lack of evidence. There are funds for victims of human trafficking and torture, but not yet for victims of sexual violence. That's what my question was about. Is the Minister prepared to take first steps at international level to investigate what would be possible towards the creation of such a fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u58	It's very simple. I also discussed this with Dr. Mukwege. My interpretation of his request is something else. It's not just about money. It is a structure in which a culture of combating impunity is supported. Actually, just like your genital mutilation counteracts by alternative initiation processes. He wants to talk to community leaders and ensure that all victims of rape and sexual violence are given that role and recognition. The funding aspect is a second component. I told him that I would like to move on with him to the run-up to our conference on psychosocial aid, because that is one of them. He's a natural partner. We're investigating, and I'm not just looking at money. The fight against impunity and compensation for victims must also come from the national legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'm glad to hear that the Minister has also discussed this with Dr. Mukwege. It is certainly not just about money, so we understand each other well. A pilot has now been launched in Kosovo, where, unfortunately, during the war in former Yugoslavia, many women have been victims of sexual violence. I would ask the Minister to take a look at that pilot in Kosovo and whether this is perhaps replicable... I'm sure this isn't a Dutch word either. Mr President, how do I translate that properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u60	Copyable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u61	...can be copied, imitation deserves on a larger scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u62	We are always interested in programs that work well. I want to see it in a broader context and not immediately commit myself to one form of programming, because the theme is wider. I think it's very important, so I'm taking it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u63	I would like to ask the Minister, through the President, of course. There's a lot of attention in this room for SRGR. The Minister indicated that, and she said she was happy about this. I think we all are. Many initiatives have been taken: on tb, HIV/AIDS, I myself initiated genital mutilation, child marriages. I presented the Minister's idea of whether it would be interesting to make some sort of action programme at SRGR, because it is already going to shred a little bit. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u64	In the entire BuHa-OS agenda, the note and part of the budget, we find the implementation of actions and the vision we have. I personally am very attached to pages 23 and 24 of the note, I believe, where it is only about women's rights, participation, protection and so on. We implement these in all country strategies and in all the thematic work. It's a kind of red button where everything is measured. This does not require a special action programme. It is not shredded, it is taken into account in all areas of action. I'm not looking in a special program anymore. I think it is more important that it comes back through a report, in which we have an obligation to say exactly how we made that battle. In fact, a special action programme does not address the central role that I have given to the whole issue of women's rights/SRGR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u65	I would very much like to, because I understand what you are saying, but of course we are not so much concerned with the fact that you are working on it, because it is clear that you think it is a very important subject. But the search for us as a Chamber in monitoring exactly what happens to the money is very difficult. I believe that we have already discussed this in the budgetary investigation. In the report we would like to see something more specific about this. Could you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u66	I'll confirm that in the second term. I would just like to find out what that means with regard to the administrative burden, also in view of the whole implementation process. But it's being reported on, so we'll see what's possible without it being an extra burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u67	Yesterday I referred to the increasing reports about sex tourism, about children being abused on a large scale and about child marriages. The Minister indicated that she had an integrated approach aimed at increasing resilience and training. But does this include tackling and targeting the perpetrators? These are also Dutch figures who abuse children abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u68	I fully recognise that, but I do not believe that this falls within the competence of my ministry or my budget. Combating trafficking in human beings, exploitation, sex tourism and abuse of children as prostitutes is part of the programme from my colleague Mr Harbers' note. I'll back up on that. By that note, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u69	I understand that much of this lies with Secretary of State Harbers, but there is also, of course, the element in that things are located in a culture that we do not consider normal; which we do not consider normal standards. Isn't that a point on which we should be focusing on this agenda? Should we not work in culture to prevent young children from getting married out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u70	Marriage out? But, Mr. Chairman, now we're going from child prostitutes to marriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u71	Children's weddings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u72	Child marriages: yes. We are also in conversation with Girls Not Brides, girls not brides, to enhance the approach of that organization and expand their programming. On the one hand, what is called 'advocacy', campaign work and awareness work is needed. In addition, programmes are needed to look at the psychosocial framework. Organisations like UNICEF or Save the Children are working on this, as are a number of Dutch civil society organisations. We're watching that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u73	I'm kind of looking in all those cubes. On Sunday I always have three blocks in the church and here there are a lot of them. Disabled people, is that part of this block or is that part of another block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u74	Thank you for asking. I think I'll come back to people with disabilities later, Mr. Stoffer. They're absolutely not forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u75	Then I'll keep my question until later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u76	Next, on the geographical focus of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr Van Haga paid attention to the geographical focus of development cooperation policy. That was explained in the note and followed by a letter. In accordance with the coalition agreement, we are looking at four unstable focus regions: Sahel, Horn of Africa, Middle East and North Africa. Within these focus regions, we focus on a specific group of countries, as Mr Van Haga and other members know. This was explained in detail in the letter of 13 November. There may be three categories. There is a broad sustainable development relationship with ten countries, mostly the poorest countries. That is what is being widely used. Then there are countries with specific targets. There's ten of them. These include the three focus countries mentioned earlier in the coalition agreement: Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq. Then there is a club of countries where the Netherlands has a very limited OS deployment, sometimes accompanied by a trade perspective, in line with the international trade agenda. Either it is in line with the Dutch foreign policy, or with the security policy, or with the migration agenda of Secretary of State Harbers. Unfortunately, it is an illusion to think that in other years we had even more focus. This is just focus. At the time, the concept of 15 partner countries sounded very nice, but the development effort was made in many more countries. I would just point out that there were already 68 countries where private sector funds were used, for example, and that list is not yet exhaustive. There is now a real focus for the first time, but I think we should also recognise that if you have to tackle root causes of poverty, climate change and irregular migration, you cannot work alone in one country. You have to look at how the country relates in the region and where the flows come from, especially when you are working to combat cross-border problems. We will, of course, wait and see how the countries react themselves. We always look at the criteria of what is called "good donorship" and how we can proceed with many countries. Mr Van Haga also suggested that no more money should be spent in OECD countries such as Mexico and Chile. It is good to explain that we have spent a minimum amount of official development money in a single OECD country that can still qualify for official development aid under the rules of the OECD DAC, the official OECD Committee on Development Cooperation. In Mexico, this amounted to €100,000 from the Human Rights Fund, for a very specific purpose. It might sound bigger than it was. OECD member Chile will no longer be eligible for any form of ODA from 2018. An exception remains, of course, the OECD member Turkey. The Netherlands pays fairly large amounts of development cooperation, 140 million. We contribute to the EU Refugee Facility, including for education and health care. It is important to say that the debate on which country should be eligible for certain forms of development cooperation has been very fluctuating since the refugee flows. Lebanon and Jordan, for example, were middle-income countries and suffered the consequences of the Syrian crisis. They were not eligible for World Bank loans or soft loans because of their income status. But precisely because a large number of countries from Europe, including ourselves, have called for a review of their status in the context of the care they provide, there has been a turnaround. The criteria are clear and we apply them, but at the same time there is a geopolitical weighting to see what changes, especially when you look at refugee flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u78	That leads to a question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u79	It is very nice to get this explanation. It turns out to be even less money than we actually thought, and sometimes that's okay. Perhaps you can at least agree that we are trying not to let money go at all to countries that do not really need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u80	That's a little too loosely formulated, but I understand the intention. We are very strict and tight in the allocation of development cooperation. It doesn't go to countries, it goes to vulnerable groups. We do not give direct budget support to countries, so it does not go to governments anyway. It goes to ethnic groups, minorities, religious minorities and people affected by conflicts. That has been the working method of the Netherlands for many years, that is not new. The Netherlands operate according to OECD DAC rules. Mr Van Haga also asked a question about the readmission of illegal migrants by the countries of origin. Like other members of the cabinet, I can only confirm this, I have regular talks with my counterpart in developing countries, or in this case trade countries. In the framework of the broad political dialogue, all themes are identified. So this subject too, where it is relevant. The withdrawal of irregular migrants residing in Europe who are not entitled to international protection is also an international agreement. This must therefore be followed up. It is not a one size fits all for deploying negative and positive incentives to achieve goals. We are also looking at human rights and return to security and economic cooperation. It is important to look at where countries need to be moved and ensure that decision-makers are affected by those measures that will be most effective. Often these are not the scarce resources for development cooperation. You can think of visa measures, stepping up or reducing cooperation in different areas and using financial instruments. The cabinet is considering what could be the best commitment per country. This is a cabinet-wide consideration, especially of Mr Harbers, Mr Blok and myself. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two points under this theme. First of all, the payment system for Palestinian prisoners, which Mr Voordewind asked for. The cabinet commitment is to maintain and implement the two-state solution in line with the government agreement and the EU frameworks provided for it. We continue to hope and expect both sides to take steps to contribute to this. The Netherlands is trying to do so in a modest way through the trilogues, which Mr Voordewind knows well. The specific theme he refers to is the link between the length of detention and the level of benefit..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The cabinet is not against payments based on socio-economic needs, but we have been calling for this measure to be adapted for years, unfortunately without any result. Thanks to the Dutch commitment, this issue is now also on the EU agenda. We do not consider it wise to cut aid. This also weakens the Palestinian Authority, which is still needed as a partner for the two-state solution. My bet is next. I would like to try for a maximum of one year in the EU framework with as many countries as possible to absolutely separate benefits from the duration of detention. If this fails, based on the long lead path, we cannot be so optimistic about it, then it is time for a clear signal and clear decision-making. That will be that the Netherlands will stop paying salaries in the justice sector. This is a form of budget support that allows the Palestinian Authority to use its own money for other purposes, such as payments to the prisoners' families. However, the cabinet does not want to stop supporting the rule of law. It is also necessary to counter the tortures, as recently mentioned in the report by Human Rights Watch, which is really the title of the organisation and, of course, for attracting investment. The Netherlands will continue to invest in legal development outside the Palestinian Authority's budget. I say this also in response to Mr Stoffer: a well-functioning government, a viable economy, in the Palestinian territories, is needed, also in order to achieve the two-state solution. The Dutch development cooperation commitment contributes or aims to contribute to the strengthening of the justice sector, the water sector and the economy. For example, we help farmers to meet international standards, allowing them to export. From Gaza alone, the export in 2018 was partly thanks to Dutch scanners, which is not actually an agricultural expertise..... more than 14 million. Ultimately, a political solution to the conflict remains a requirement for stability. The Netherlands is committed to this at bilateral and EU level. This includes a fair, just and realistic solution, including for Palestinian refugees. For this purpose and in the context of the Middle East Peace Process, we continue to support Palestinian refugees through the UN Refugee Organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you to the Minister for this clear position and for the commitment of the cabinet. The link between the level of benefits and the level of imprisonment and thus the victims made is unacceptable. I welcome the commitment that if this does not change in the coming year, the Minister will be prepared to apply a reduction. Can the Minister also tell us whether this lobby in Brussels has now led to support? Which countries have now made reductions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u82	I'll have to check it out. We're not here yet, so that's why I had the guts to say I wasn't so optimistic. Mr Voordewind has my firm commitment that, if we fail for the umpteenth time, the budget of EUR 1.5 million will be cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u83	A further question from Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u84	Then it gets even more concrete. I shall look into the extent to which we can reach a motion in the second period in order to record it precisely. Thank you for mentioning a concrete amount. How does the Minister explain the Palestinian Authority's stubbornness? Previously, the amount was in the Palestinian Authority, then it went under pressure from the international community to the PLO and I understand that it has now even been returned to the Palestinian Authority. Why is it so obstinate to hold on to it at all costs, while the pressure of the international community is increasing? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u85	I honestly do not have an answer to that. I don't know, and I'd rather not speculate about it either. I really don't know, contrary to what some people like to say. I don't know! Especially in the social media, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u86	That's true. It's very refreshing, because it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u87	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u88	It's fair to say you don't know. That's not easy; then you have to step over your shadow. My question is another one, Mr President. My question was, in particular, about economic independence and the self-reliance of the Palestinians. Thank you for the answer the Minister gave. I liked it very much. I would like to sharpen it a little bit, but perhaps the Minister also says 'I don't know'. My question is: where is the dot on the horizon? Does the Minister have a certain picture or does she say "yes, I don't know"? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u89	You know, Mr. Chairman, this is a personal fact. I lived in Jerusalem when the Oslo Accords were signed. That seemed like a very hopeful dot. I can tell you, I don't know. I think it is important that, in accordance with the government agreement, we, the Netherlands, continue to work towards a two-state solution, negotiations and progress in the Middle East Peace Process. So, of course, the political link I missed in Mr Stoffer's question is important to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mr. Stoffer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u91	Well, no, actually, just thank you for the answer. I understand that my question was very straightforward, straightforward in economic terms. I get that political link. Thanks for the answer. It actually means that we have to conclude that that dot does not arrive on the horizon until there is a political solution. I think that's actually what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u92	We're here to talk about the Foreign Trade and OS budget. There are so many times to talk to Mr Blok about the Middle East Peace Process and all aspects are taken into account. Mr Stoffer rightly asked for economic independence. I think that in every area where we work, the people want to self-destruct as much as possible and to take advantage of their own opportunities. In this case, I am talking about an area, but in other situations they are countries. I am thinking of exports, development and universities, because everyone wants that for their own family and for their own children. But, of course, there are a number of frameworks that can create obstacles. That is why the negotiations on a political solution, as in so many situations, remain important. That's what the parties themselves say. We do not speak on their behalf; we only want to play a supporting role, in accordance with the coalition agreement, if requested. We do that through the trilogues, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u93	Thank you. We're going, I think, to the next block. So not, because we will not do that until after Mr Amhaouch has also asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u94	I want to stay away from the political debate and the long-term discussion. We have indeed said that we want to go for this two-state solution. I was just triggered by what the Minister said about exports from the Palestinian territories. That was about 13 million, if I understand the minister correctly. The question is what the potential is. The Netherlands has other focus regions, such as Lebanon/Jordan, but could the Netherlands also contribute there so that people can develop their own activities and become independent and therefore less dependent on aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u95	Gaza is, of course, a special situation. I mentioned Gaza's exports, which are made possible by, among other things, the Dutch scanners. It was partly agricultural exports, which amounted to about $14 million. That is, of course, a very small part of the potential. I think about agriculture and the quality of production, but you also have the startups. There is, of course, a young population among the Palestinian population. Physical constraints within the areas often mean that people will also have to seek and find very creative solutions to shape those ideas. So I also think that the innovative side of the Dutch knowledge institutions could perhaps play a role. I would like to return with a few examples in second term, also based on the fact that our office in Ramallah is now engaged in a multi-annual strategy, because the Palestinian territories continue to be part of the focus areas, in this case. Then I'll move on to the head of civil society, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the Chamber and I have become convinced at many times and in many areas of the role that civil society organisations play in achieving development goals such as tackling the root causes of poverty and inequality. They also play a connecting role between the Netherlands and the countries where we work, and vice versa. The diaspora can also form an important channel. I fully share the concern of a number of Members, Mrs van den Hul, Mrs Kuik, Mr Voordewind, about limiting and reducing the political space of many civil society organisations and how they can work. That space is under pressure worldwide. They will also have a special role to play in the implementation of our policies, but we must also ensure their independence as a defender of human rights, women's rights, special groups and minorities. They also perform a watchdog function, even with regard to the consequences of Dutch policy for citizens in developing countries. We may not always like that, but it is extremely important and useful and it is also a model of our own strength and resilience to benefit from this. That is why, in recent months, we, the Netherlands, have also brought to the attention of the European Commission and other EU Member States a proposal for an early warning system for shrinking social space. We also did so during the international donor and support group for civil society. We are committed to joint European action, also motivated by the Van den Hul motion, and thus to the political but also the social role of these organisations. I come to the relevance of OS. Some of you have pointed this out in a positive way. Mrs Van Weerdenburg has asked questions about the basis or actually said that there is little support and that the Dutch citizen, from her point of view, prefers to decide where this funding is going. It is clear to the Dutch cabinet and many Cabinets for this, regardless of their political colour, that the Netherlands wants and should continue to play an international role. An international role as a country of the rule of law, with The Hague as its capital, of course, and of international law. That is the commitment we make at multilateral level, but also at bilateral level. Responsible development cooperation is not only a means, but also a way to remain in dialogue and to be able to implement specific objectives and themes we attach to. The business case of investing in development cooperation has been made hard by both the private sector and the public sector. All SDGs are based on this, but in particular SDG 17. It is our responsibility to highlight a recognisable story about the relevance, successes and lesser successes of development policy. Mrs Kuik of the CDA also mentioned this. It remains an art and not always easy to tell complicated matter, especially when it comes to situations very far away, from our own world of experience. I share this and we try to improve it every time, through social media, through people who come to talk. We find that among young people there is a very new hang and interest in hearing what is going on elsewhere. The world has really become very small and people know that everything that is happening on the planet, whether it is far away or here, concerns us only. Not everyone has a direct role and responsibility, but the solidarity that we taste especially among people, among young people, and the cohesion they experience with vulnerable groups, especially in developing countries, is particularly great. You don't only see that when there's a disaster. You can tell by the crowdsourcing. You see it in many ways, especially in social media and using modern technology. Mr Kuzu also referred to this. In this respect, I am very hopeful that the Dutch young people, too, are committed to a sustainable world and that they want to take that change step and take responsibility for contributing to a different world today, in the Netherlands and elsewhere. Of course, we also do this in cooperation, including through the Nuffic programme, the Orange Knowledge Programme, for cooperation at the level of education. It is, of course, also important that we continue to be able to understand, through the sources and channels we have as a government, what results are being achieved. That was also a point made by Mrs Van Weerdenburg: transparency. What are the sources, where is the information and where can I compare it? I have already mentioned in an AO that it is not only published in English.... that is often for partners.... but also in Dutch for the citizen. Mrs Van Weerdenburg remembers that commitment. I did it and confirmed it during a recent AO. What's gonna happen? We've discussed this before. As of 2019, there will be one portal where all the information can be found, about the policies, objectives and news there is. There is a report of results at aggregated level. It's supposed to be comprehensive by 2020; it's been quite a job for us to publish up-to-date programme-specific information, including results achieved, funding flows, and-and-and-on, based on open data. This is more than sufficient to meet the requirements of the IATI initiative. Should there be more? Is there anything else we need to communicate with? Once, but I also see this as a joint task. I have one, but it's also nice when everyone who has ideas shares it. Also from civil society, but not alone. Because it is not an OS bubble or an international bubble. The point is that we all talk about the same things and have a dialogue and ask questions about them. Then I move on to the next heading, namely climate, water and food security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u96	There is still a question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg on the previous block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u97	Let me ask you a question about civil society. The Minister spoke about the binding role of civil society. In that light, I'm a little surprised that I could find on the unbeatable website OpenaidNL under the heading "civil society" that a lot of money has gone and is still going to the Open Society Institute of the Soros Foundations Network. You were just talking about the binding role, but Mr George Soros also finances in the Netherlands all kinds of clubs and organizations that play a very different role in the Netherlands. A small anthology: pro-Islamic projects, clubs doing research on Islamophobia and how to combat populism and most recently the anti-Black Piet movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u98	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u99	My question is why we sponsor those left-wing hobbies of a billionaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u100	There's a lot being said and I think I'm taking a lot of distance, like the "left-wing hobbies of a billionaire." I do not want to go along with the risk of framing Mr Soros, who is really very renowned and very well known. I don't know the projects. I'll have to look that up. I don't know what those projects are right now. But left-wing hobbies of a billionaire? Mr Soros has done a great deal of important work. I find the accusations made recently against him by some people, not in this Parliament, but elsewhere in the international sphere, worrying. So I guess it doesn't belong in this discussion. Of course, we would like to share information about that project. I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u101	An additional question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u102	Yeah, an extra question. Then let's say about the activities: let's agree to disagree. However, Mr Soros is a billionaire and he himself has more than enough money to fund this type of project. I do not understand, perhaps, why the Minister can comment on this, and why the scarce resources that we are spending on development aid are not exactly going to this kind of poor billionaires.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u103	The Open Society was founded by George Soros himself with his own money. That's a. And then b. I don't know the project, I don't know the timetable and I don't know if it was in 2010 or 2012. I'll have it checked out and I'll come back to it in the second term, provided I consider it relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you. You have arrived at the next block, about climate, water and food security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u105	Yes. A number of questions have been asked about the climate fund. There is also an English title for, the Dutch fund for climate and development. The Chamber received a letter about it. The CDA asks to make sure that the climate fund can also use the Dutch expertise and, of course, make a link with our business. I'm sure we can do this. If the knowledge and skills of Dutch industry in climate matters remain as good as they already are, then I think there is definitely an offer and just a very professional link. The Dutch business community is renowned in this area and in most cases Dutch companies win all tenders. But we are always going to look at the best providers, because the aim of the fund is to counter the impact of climate change in developing countries. It is not a direct means of promoting exports. But I assume that Dutch companies, because of the expertise they have, are by definition already very well sorted out. So I also think that Dutch companies can and want to contribute. I can see that in the many missions I carry out. I also think I can reassure Mr Van Haga with this. He asked if the funds from the fund are also available to Dutch business. Yes, but Dutch companies have to sign up. And the best offer is selected. Furthermore, the OS funding toolbox is of course well known by most Dutch companies. They also do business with it and thus go on to say "the farmer" in order to increase their market share and to make a contribution that is relevant for development. This fund is also open to civil society organisations. They can compete. That is an answer to a question from Mrs Diks. The management of the subsidy from the Climate Fund has also been requested. It shall be chosen to select the most appropriate party through an open tender. That could be one party, one partner, or a consortium. So one administrator is chosen. An organisation or a consortium of organisations subscribes. A choice is made for the administrator. And the administrator will then see how the programs are turned off. A large number of organisations can still derive programme funding from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u106	Actually, I was a little surprised. I believe that this cabinet has made a real effort to set up or increase the climate fund. When the coalition agreement was concluded, it was discussed and now we have received a letter about it a few days ago. Maybe I missed something. It could be, because we're all very busy here. In the meantime, however, I do not think you have given me anything to indicate what you intend to do with the climate fund. We have not been able to provide input. Actually, I do regret that, to be honest. We said this morning at the procedural meeting that we still want to have an AO on this fund and its establishment. My question is how much room is left for this Chamber to adjust to what we would like with this fund. Because I do not think we have been able to share the starting points at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u107	Well, I think the starting points are mentioned in the coalition agreement and in the letter. The objectives are clear. And it is also up to the cabinet to decide on this. I like to talk about this, but there is of course also a role for the cabinet. I always like to talk to the Chamber, but it is the choice of the Cabinet to give substance to the objectives we have set.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u108	Yeah, that's, of course, to some extent true, I'd almost say. But I would like to mention, for example, the number of 160 million in a number of years. In addition, I believe that the budget right of the Chamber will also have a look around the corner. But of course we will come to a further discussion on this. I have another question. You indicate in your "Finally" in the letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u109	That's what the Minister does, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u110	Oh, excuse me, yes. Finally, the Minister states in the letter that work is being carried out in particular on SDG 13, climate action. I had already asked you in the previous budget debate what you are going to do about actions to manage global ecosystems. I have also come back to this in my first term of this debate. These are mainly SDG 14 and SDG 15. Are they gonna be taken in there? It is not mentioned explicitly, and that is why I am concerned again. So can you say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u111	The Minister's gonna say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u112	D66 and GroenLinks indeed drew attention to combating deforestation, to ecosystems, to promoting renewable energy in low-wage countries. These are key points in our climate policy, I can confirm that, and also in the new climate fund. Of course, we are also promoting sustainable deforestation-free trade chains, both in producer countries and in consumer countries. It wasn't really France that came up with an initiative. The Netherlands initiated the Amsterdam Declarations, together with France and other European countries, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Norway and the United Kingdom, to halt deforestation and promote a more ambitious EU policy. I found it interesting that the French made even more noise about the eradication of deforestation caused by agricultural trade chains by 2030, but we are already working on it. I would like to talk to my French colleague, also in the EU context, about how to raise the level. But it's not something new. There's just more and more around the side of France.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u113	Thank you for the Minister's explanation of the climate cup. I have, indeed, recently drawn a great deal of attention to deforestation in the Amazon forest. The question I asked yesterday was about the initiative to boycott products that cause deforestation. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u114	We are always committed to sustainability in international corporate social responsibility, currently on a voluntary basis. A boycott has a very different legal framework. I think you'll have to do a lot more work yourself on the eve. I think we should now look at how the climate fund is going to unpack, what we can do at EU level and how we can raise standards together, so that we can avoid a boycott. These instruments may need to be over the market, but we also know that countries such as Indonesia and Malaysia are already concerned about the noise they hear from the European Parliament about the sustainability of palm oil and that they want to fight and counter it. So it is also about the best way through which we can achieve the desired result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u115	And another question from Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u116	Back to strengthening civil society. That is what Consensus and Consensus is an important means; 200 to 215 million, I say out of my mind. I understand this is being reviewed this year, too. It was supposed to happen in 2018. We're almost out this year. When does the Minister expect this to be concluded? The sequel is midterm. The final evaluation will take place in 2020. How does it view the partnership now? Does she have a positive attitude when it comes to the sequel?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u117	The evaluation and the mid-term evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u118	I think it's always important to wait for the evaluation first. I have to come back to it in second term when we get it. Then we'll read it. At the moment, experience is positive when I look at the posts. They are different ways of working with local partners. We are not afraid to organize our own criticism, just as it is done in the Netherlands by this organisation. We're not afraid of it, we think it's healthy and clear. So we have a positive basic position. Civil society here and elsewhere is extremely important, precisely because of all the criticism and the attacks and allegations against these organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u119	A further question from Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u120	You're putting another line, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u121	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u122	I see you're busy with it. Mr President, a final question. The minister says we're getting a review. Is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber of its findings so that the Chamber can also take note of that review?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u123	Let me check our usual procedure, how we share this kind of information. If it's an IOB evaluation, the Chamber gets it anyway, with an appreciation from the Cabinet. It's an important theme. I'd like to look into the form and then I'll confirm it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u124	I have been having this debate on deforestation for soy and palm oil for a few years now, both within the Committee on Agriculture and within the Committee on Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I don't understand something. If there is much resistance somewhere, it is within the Committee on Agriculture, but it is now recognised that it is better if we are no longer dependent on the import of soya. It may take some time, but the recognition is that it is not so good to drag soy from Latin America all the way here. Why is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development now so obstinate as the same discussion in the area of palm oil? Why can't we just acknowledge that it's better if we do it without palm oil or at least with a lot less? For I ask the Minister whether she can rule out deforestation for the so-called sustainable palm oil we import, and she cannot guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u125	No, but of course I'm not a member of the other committee. I can't follow the conversations there in detail, so I don't want to make a comparison with something I haven't really met. That's one. Second, no, I'm not guaranteeing anything in this life. I don't guarantee I'll be home safe tomorrow. But in this broad policy framework, we are committed to sustainability on a voluntary basis. That's why we have the covenants. That's why we're focusing on certain chains. That is why we are committed to international corporate social responsibility. Do I want to speed that up? Yes. Are I interested in the effectiveness and limitations of the imvo and the covenants, to know what is not going well, how can that be changed and what are the measures? I am. But this is a much broader development theme. I am consciously aware, Mrs Ouwehand, that much better account is taken of all the consequences and potential risks and dangers of deforestation. I also recognise what Mrs Ouwehand says about this: if we want to be serious about climate action, adaptation and mitigation, then we need to be even more ambitious at global level, also in view of the Paris agreements. But I can't compare it one-on-one like that and if I'm asked "can you guarantee that?" or "can we do without, yes or no?', Then I can't put it that way. I do not have sufficient insight into the Dutch market. We are committed to sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u126	With respect to the Minister, we've been having this discussion for 15 years. Sustainability is the magic word. It is not very easy for the Animal Party to call on the business community to make a point here, but AEGON, a small investor in palm oil, says very clearly: we stop, because this RSPO, that sustainability path, does too little against human rights violations and is not strict enough against deforestation. If the Party for Animals is overtaken by business for sustainability, then something may be going on. So why is it so difficult to recognise that it is also better to reduce the import of palm oil, as we are doing for soy from Latin America by now? I don't think it's that hard and so much to ask. Why doesn't the Minister want to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u127	I don't hear the question. I'm hearing the suggestion that I'm gonna have to cut the import. I don't know if there should be a ban. I don't know if there should be a permit. I don't know if it's my personal opinion. I do not know exactly what the request to me is from my capacity as Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr President, I am not going to discuss this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u129	That's unfortunate, but I didn't hear the question. I hear a suggestion, but it's not specific enough to act on my capacity. I'll see if I've finished this cup. That's the case. Mr President, I would like to move on to the heading of support for business and the broader trade agenda. I'll speed up and hopefully I'll be done soon enough. I'll see what hasn't been appointed. I would like to stress once again that this is perhaps also in the context of a number of questions on the proactive trade agenda..... that as far as we are concerned it is still clearly a trade agenda and not a development cooperation agenda, but that there are sometimes points that companies themselves see. It is interesting that the SDGs, the sustainable development goals, are at present even large on the outside of the VNO-NCW office. Business is therefore convinced that there is also a growth market, that the SDGs are important, but that it can also create a market of 12 billion dollars. See also Better Business, Better World report. Dutch companies are frontrunners. They are willing to take this additional step towards sustainability to contribute to societal challenges abroad. So they're taking a step towards a future-proof earning model. The example of AEGON may also be relevant here. It turns out that many Dutch companies really want to be the frontrunner. That's why we think they play a valuable role. They can also apply to financial instruments such as the Dutch Good Growth Fund, which is known as "SDRGP," and of course also to their knowledge and expertise. The head of international corporate social responsibility is appointing a number of points that were made yesterday on the trade agenda. This leads me to the ninth block: imvo policy and coherence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u130	There's another question about the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u131	Sometimes it happens very quickly. I asked some questions yesterday about the commitment to people living in diaspora. How can we involve them more in promoting Dutch trade, or trade over and over again? In the written reply I received some information. Let me say that some of the parties involved in diaspora did not recognize themselves directly in the answer, and that is the most friendly variant I have. Is the Minister prepared to send a letter to the Chamber on how people and organisations in diaspora are involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u132	The Diaspora in the Netherlands or Dutch Diaspora in the countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u133	This doesn't go away from my speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u134	No, no, you feel free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u135	I am talking about people in diaspora who are active in the Netherlands and who want to maintain relationships with their country of origin. I think it would be good to see if we could support them much more from this ministry, but also from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I think that is also very good for the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u136	I agree with the importance of the diaspora. They are often people who have knowledge and expertise and can perform a good bridge function. It can sometimes even promote return, but it is ultimately about economic growth and other links. I would like to come back to this in the second term, because I would like to discuss it, also because it has an EZK aspect, to see what is the best way to get back to it. The importance is recognised. It is a pity that groups that are not called by name do not recognize themselves, but the diaspora is rather broad. It is also about the channels and the appropriate formulas to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u137	We're getting to a piece of business right now. The Minister also indicated at her opening that she feels responsible for the Dutch income model, and that is very good, I think. In the written reply and in the first period, I brought in something about insurance. We know that financial services are very important on these continents, especially in Africa, especially for small businesses, in the event of illness and weather. The Minister writes that the cabinet will join the G7 initiative for a Global Risk Financing Facility. Can the Minister explain this briefly as regards the relationship with the insurance industry that we asked for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u138	I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u139	Before the Minister moves on to the next block; I did not see it in the written answer, so I ask the question again about the knowledge we have about hunger and climate change and what we need to change here in the rich West in any case, we want to reduce those problems. The human rights rapporteur for the right to food and the UN Environment Programme say that we need to drastically reduce our consumption of meat and dairy products. How's it going at the State Department? Is the Minister prepared to turn that into the norm, which is now happening in the Ministry of Education and Science? If you want to eat vegetable, that's the standard offer, and if you want meat or dairy, you need to ask for it, which is the other way around. Is the Minister prepared to implement that idea in her own activities and in her ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u140	Yeah, that's an interesting question. I've been thinking about it since yesterday's question. A practical obstacle is that I am not the Foreign Minister, so I do not control the device or the famous building in the Rijnstraat. We share that with many. That's one. The second point concerns your question about official receipts, lunches and dinners. Since I am also Minister for Development Cooperation, we do so very lightly; with a cheese sandwich and a cup of tomato soup, mostly. I don't do good receipts. I do not think that is appropriate in this case either. I can promise that I will first of all look with Mr Blok and with the Secretary-General to see how we can produce a good picture, but ultimately it will also remain an individual choice. That's very important. I can assure you that all my children at home do not eat meat. I'm the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u141	That's how we see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u142	I'm getting enough headaches at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u143	Take an example from the children. Always a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u144	It's coming from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u145	Yes. Thank you for this commitment. I am very pleased with that. I can inform the Minister that this freedom of choice will continue to exist. It is an idea of behavioral economist Henriëtte Prast, this minister well-known. She says that with a very small adjustment you just change the standard. Now vegetarians and vegans are free too, but then they have to ask for it. You're gonna turn that around. So the carnivore has to ask for it from now on. But freedom will continue to exist. Thank you for the Minister's commitment to this hopeful and hopeful idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u146	It's a statement of intent, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause it's better not me...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u147	Can we get an update on the discussions that are going to take place with Mr Blok? Are we gonna get a feedback?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u148	I'm not admitting that. I promised I'd record it. I think this is now broader than the framework of this budget debate. You can rely on me to investigate what is possible in the free choice of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u149	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u150	Yes. Otherwise, I'll have to ask the officials to write a letter about my diet. Number nine: International Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. Mr Alkaya asked if I felt a responsibility for the international economic system. I think we can find each other in the recognition of the enormous challenge, regardless of how one is politically involved, to create broad prosperity, shared prosperity, equality and sustainability for all in a globalising and globalised world. I do feel a co-responsibility for that, and of course all the way from this position. That is why I have also chosen the sustainable development goals, and that is why we are putting a great deal of our policy on them, as well as on humanitarian diplomacy and always taking the human rights agenda on board, especially when it comes to very poignant situations. So we're not gonna let that go. That's not gonna be put away. But I may have different starting points here than Mr Alkaya's party. In order to use the system change that leads to sustainable development goals, we need to work on good tax treaties, on combating tax avoidance and on combating corruption. Here too, we must look for policy coherence and a strong and fair international trading system. I will return to SDG 17. The cabinet is, of course, in favour of international trade agreements that accelerate sustainable development. Bilateral trade agreements focusing on the protection of workers, climate change and corporate social responsibility are a step forward. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Alkaya asked in particular about the social responsibility of multinationals. You know what the cabinet expects from companies. That is compliance with the OECD guidelines and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These guidelines and principles will be promoted through agreements, among other things. All our diplomatic posts and all those working in this context are aware that international corporate social responsibility is the framework from which they can advise companies when doing business abroad: on the rule of law, the state of human rights, governance, good governance, social rights and the environment. This is constantly being put forward in all our contacts, messages and expectations towards diplomatic posts. Economic diplomacy is therefore imvo diplomacy. This also applies to our activities in Brazil, where the Netherlands is actively committed to combating deforestation. I'll hold, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u151	Yes. A question from Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u152	Number five, if I've kept up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u154	The Minister says that economic diplomacy is by definition also imvo diplomacy. And yet we are also getting signals from the field that there is often a lack of knowledge in this field. We see this cabinet investing heavily in economic diplomacy. But if we see that companies still need help in shaping that responsibility, as I said yesterday: two thirds of companies do not yet give hands and feet to the OECD directives and, at the same time, when we see that space for the social field is shrinking in many countries, we see a role for our posts there. They can ensure that these companies and social partners can strengthen each other. And of course, how we organise it is up to the Minister. I have made a move in my amendment to that effect. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how she would fill that out. How does she see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u155	Excuse me, I hope I got it right. When it comes to better preparation and to a good mirror for business and missions, and perhaps to have a mirror while they are on that mission, there are moments ahead of them. Civil society representatives can always participate in a mission. I also think that better briefings can be provided, for example by Amnesty, by the Tropeninstituut or by others, depending on the themes. For example, the mission to Colombia, that of Prime Minister Rutte, includes the CNV, precisely from the perspective of labour rights. So I think that even more needs to be done to ensure a proportionate representation in preparation and during these missions, but in the end we cannot force anyone to go on a mission. But we're open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u156	Then there is Mrs van den Hul's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u157	I am glad to hear that the Minister also sees room for improvement. But I was referring not so much to the missions, but to the deployment of our diplomatic posts abroad in this field. Just when we see a toolbox for economic diplomacy being developed, we would very much like to see a toolbox for imvo diplomacy, just to jump into that hole that is getting bigger and bigger by this shrinking civil society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u158	I just need to figure out what's already there. I have a strong impression that all these resources are already there in all the work already being done on imvo from the Directorate-General for External Economic Relations, which is working together with regional directories and embassies. So I just want to get that checked out on the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u159	It's possible. Then there is Mrs Diks' final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u160	Yeah, I thought I had another one too! I have repeatedly expressed my concerns about the behaviour of the Dutch embassies in the context of the imvo. The interruption with Mrs van den Hul was actually partly about that. Of course, we've been looking a little bit for how these embassies are actually instructed. We looked that up, and I have the directive here. It's actually an A4's, but at home I just call this a half A4's. And if there is such a thin directive, I understand that many embassies choose their own interpretation. And I'm saying it a little funny, but I actually mean it a little cranky. We have discussed this on several occasions, for example on how the Dutch embassy in Brazil behaves. You may, of course, have a different view as a minister, but it is clear that the Dutch embassy there supports companies doing things that I am sure the Minister will not be happy about, and at least we will not. There are really bad things happening, which we in the Netherlands certainly do not oppose. And I understand that, because the directive merely indicates what could be done. The directive does not set out at all what should not be possible at embassies. And I would like to ask: are you prepared to prescribe a slightly more comprehensive directive for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u161	I do not know this directive, but a great deal is being instructed internally. I don't know what's available and how Mrs. Diks got this, but I assume the public was available on the Foreign Affairs website. When it comes to policy and the role of a post in a country situation, there are very specific instructions for this. They're being tuned. It's being discussed. If it is more politically sensitive, then it is coordinated by the ministers. So I don't know what this is, but I do know how the average mail works in the context of a multi-annual strategy and a country strategy. They are being prepared in detail. That's a month-long journey. That is the working framework of a post at that time. And then there are the very specific channels, handles and materials that are used. So I can't do much with this and I don't know it either, but I do know what's happening. That is of course internal to the government, behind the scenes, but imvo is very central when it comes to economic diplomacy. We also have every six or twelve months returns from the economic attachés and from people who have to implement imvo policies. There are training days. There are many moments in the year when this is discussed and the frameworks and challenges are also discussed. I do not know whether you are doing justice to the many hard work, the substantive commitment, the preparation and support of the posts by referring the people themselves to half an A4', because that is not the framework within which colleagues, the Foreign Affairs staff, work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u162	The Minister now reaffirms that companies that somehow use the help of the government, whether they receive subsidies or participate in trade missions, must take social responsibility, that they must submit such a statement. In the written answers to my questions, the Minister states that transparency and accountability about what they are doing and what the risks are are. The Transparency benchmark is what it is called, but unfortunately it is an important part of that. There are companies that have been asked for years to participate and to be transparent about their business operations, but who are not participating, have been getting zero points on such a benchmark for years and yet are participating in trade missions. The company ABB Industry is now in Colombia, or may have just returned, but that company was on mission with the Prime Minister, while for years it has refused to be transparent about its operations. Is that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u163	What's your question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u164	That was in the middle of my question, Mr President. Is that corporate social responsibility? Shouldn't it be the case that companies that refuse to be transparent simply no longer participate in trade missions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u165	I don't know if I can put it that hard, but I can agree with the intention. We have, of course, also included in the budget the new indicator that 90% of companies have supported imvo or the OECD guidelines. This year, of course, we are assuming zero measurement. Then I think it is right, if you are critical, to note: we don't even know where they come from and the progress made is still too little. I think there should be an acceleration of that, and I agree with that not only in order to strengthen the credibility of the subject of volunteering, but also because we need to know that the majority of companies are simply doing so. There is a kind of accountability to be given. I'd like to discuss that. I'm not going to say that anyone who doesn't sign this doesn't. We don't know. We need to attract much more, so that the majority of companies are very clear about it. It is true that everyone who goes along with this mission or any economic mission or who is entitled to the instruments we have is being interviewed. You know the same thing about the A.O.s. It is said: you must follow a, b, c. If there's a problem, it's discussed. There is always an immediate follow-up. I would like to explore how this can be further improved, also in the context of the credibility of our overall commitment. I recognize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u166	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u167	Mr. Chairman, I'll come to the last cup or block: trade policy. In the context of the new trade agreements concluded, Mr Amhaouch asked for better expression of the opportunities offered by treaties for business. That's a common theme. The concern is often expressed that many of the smaller companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, cannot find their way in the mess of information, because it is rather dense dust. Mr Amhaouch also stated that, in order to promote and facilitate opportunities abroad created by trade agreements, the postal network should be extended to include economic attachés. I am, of course, pleased to hear that economic diplomacy is also a key concept for CDA too, Mr Amhaouch always wears it very actively from.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Unfortunately, I can only say that the information has not changed, that the numbers have not risen: there are 35 places, posts, strengthening the economic function of the postal network. In the eyes of Foreign Affairs, further reinforcement of the postal network is not yet necessary. Of course, we can look at the possibilities of providing information on the benefits of trade agreements. This should start with companies in the Netherlands. This also happens, partly through posts, but we also do this in the Netherlands, of course, through the RVO, the Chamber of Commerce and Customs. This is, of course, a very important influence and information moment for companies to improve their chances. I am also discussing this with the European Commission in the framework of the Trade Councils, because many other countries naturally have the same thing. The European Commission's first study on the active use of trade agreements by companies shows that we all have yet to make an improvement. Mr Amhaouch also rightly pointed to the risks currently present in the global economy that could have an impact on the Dutch trade agenda. The opportunities and risks that we often discuss in the trade discussions are, of course, the result of international political and economic developments. We often talk about US protectionist policies, China's targeted investment policy in Europe and the impact of digitalisation on markets. Mr Amhaouch asked whether an analysis of these risks could be part of the Spring paper. I have to say that the cabinet constantly adjusts its own analysis and analyses the risks. This is done through the Broad Network and discussions. I also mention the participation of Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Hoekstra in the G20. This is always reflected in the broad lines of the policy documents, and therefore also in the spring note and the letter of office. We do not see the need to add an additional element, because our notes are also based on the analysis that has been made. Maybe the AOs will give us a chance to talk about that further. I would like to confirm that the Chamber will receive a cabinet-wide China strategy from my colleague Blok before 15 May 2019. I am also developing an inclusive and sustainable digitalisation strategy. This will also come to your room for the summer of 2019. I would like to return to a question from the CDA on the economic partnership between the EU and the African countries. There are many trade agreements with African countries in force. I refer to the full EPAs with South African countries, the interim EPAs with Central Africa, Southern and Eastern Africa and Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire. For some African countries where EPA is not in force, most still enjoy the trade advantages under the Generalised System of Preferences. In this way, the European market is substantially linked to African countries. This is also relevant when we look at the post-Cotonou negotiations and the European Union's commitment to Africa as a whole. I call the EU-AU partnership, when we look at the approach to root causes, but also at how we can help promote economic integration at a regional and continental level in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u168	Thank you, at least, for the answers so far. The minister just told me about the China strategy between the lines. We've talked about that before. Mr Van Helvert has also spoken about this on a number of occasions. I have spoken about the economic perspective, I said: from Amsterdam to Cape Town. How does the Minister see developments in the slightly longer term towards the African continent, in order to really raise the economic partnership? The Germans have a marshall plan that's been on the table for years. Europe is still searching. We've deployed new policies, we've identified focus regions. Does the Minister feel like thinking about an Africa strategy during the coming year, about how to increase the level of prosperity in Africa with the use of Dutch knowledge and expertise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u169	I need to think about that. Of course, we have a number of focus regions on the African continent. I totally recognize the language of a marshal plan for Africa. Juncker's been talking about that recently. We have a number of major themes, kinship and instruments EU-Africa. I do not think we should do it from the Netherlands alone, but we should do it with a number of European countries and preferably at EU level. I would like to come back to it in second place, because I do not know if it adds anything. I do agree that we need to look very specifically at Africa, because of population growth, because of the consequences of climate action. If we really want to make work of investing in perspective, we will actually have to make a lot of miles in Africa. I therefore recognise the ambition, but I would like to emphasise that it is already reflected in the focus regions, in the country strategies and in what we are going to do with the EU, including in the post-Contonou negotiations. But I would like to take another moment of reflection in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u170	I'm sure I'll let the Minister do the same. I will also table a motion on this point, but it will come later. In this context, I would like to talk about inequality. I have adopted the global objective of combating inequality. So I'm also doing a little advertising for this point. That's SDG 10. In the meantime, the Minister knows that the 42 richest people own just as much as the poorest 3.7 billion. Tax avoidance and evasion is a major problem, particularly in Africa. I spoke about this in my first term. We know that the contribution made by the Netherlands to partner countries, the ODA contribution, was 4.3% in 2013. But what went out through tax avoidance and evasion was higher, namely 4.7%. Is the Minister prepared to provide insight into the situation over the past year and to provide related solutions? Because this is exactly the interface and those two faces. We also know that 80% of the 100 largest companies that avoid tax are in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u171	I think there is a lot going on in the area of my colleague, Mr Snel, Secretary of State for Finance. Of course, he's working very hard on the tax treaties. He also has a whole plan against tax avoidance and for the closure of letterbox companies and so on. I shall come back to this point in the second term, as far as I may be able to contribute to it. Because we are fighting corruption. We invest in customs. Through a UN organisation, we are building capacity in many countries, precisely to combat tax evasion. But that is at national and local level in developing countries themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u172	I'm glad the Minister's coming back to that. However, on the basis of the first question, the Minister may be able to make a commitment at this stage. I asked: is it prepared to give an insight into how the ODA contributions to partner countries, especially in Africa, relate to what is going on through tax avoidance and evasion? We know that, among other things, through tax avoidance, wealth goes more from Africa than aid goes to it. I would like this to be clear for the Dutch part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u173	I would like to check whether we have the competence in that. In the second term, I will come up with an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u174	Okay. Then I have one final question, if you will allow me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u175	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u176	That question is also about human rights and large multinationals. I talked about Shell and how they are incredibly cruelly raging in Nigeria. The Minister writes in the written reply that the cabinet expects companies to respect human rights in accordance with UN directives. But Shell doesn't do that in Nigeria in any way, not with their employees, not with the people whose land they've polluted. Does the Minister understand whether, in accordance with a UN report, Shell has deposited the amount into that fund to clean up the area and compensate victims? If the Minister does not have that, is she prepared to get that insight, to share that information with us and, above all, to take on the role that the Dutch Government can play in this, so that this huge case can finally be solved a little bit years later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u177	I can gain insight into that. I'll get back to the Chamber on that. Mr. Chairman. Then I will be on one of the last two points. Mr Haga mentioned the importance of equal standards for companies for a level playing field in the European Union. I think we all think that's very important. The cabinet always strives to align standards with a view to removing unnecessary barriers for businesses. This is, of course, also the background to the creation of the European internal market. That's a constant pursuit. Then the final point. Mrs Ouwehand (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Ouwehand for her excellent report. The cabinet is of course attached to this. Mrs Ouwehand proposed that trade agreements should no longer be concluded with countries which no longer comply with the Paris Agreement. In this case, she mentioned Brazil, also in the context of the Mercosur negotiations, where there is an option for the European Union. She also asked about the negotiations with Australia. It is no surprise that I say that the EU is always insisting on making international sustainability agreements, including, of course, support for compliance with the Paris Agreement at national level, and to include them in trade agreements. Often that can be successful, as expected in the treaty with Australia, but well, Australia is an OECD country. Sometimes that doesn't lead to immediate results. I am afraid to make any statements about Brazil. In the last trade council, I expressed my concerns, and many colleagues with me, about the state of play in Brazil and what it will mean for Mercosur. Furthermore, we do not dare to make harsh statements. We need to see how the situation develops. Mercosur has also been a long negotiation process. This is the category "watching letter" and I'll come back to it after the next trade council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u178	I'll come back to those standards. We all agree that we prefer to have the same standards within Europe. My follow-up question was, of course, through the chairman: do you agree with the VVD that it might be better to end up in the middle if those standards differ, than that we continue to apply our own standards and therefore sometimes fish behind the grid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u179	The aim of the European internal market is that we all have the same standard. It depends on what the height of the standard is. I do not know in what context Mr Van Haga is talking about a standard and whose standard in what situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u180	I can imagine that it is annoying that we reject a defence order because we have a high moral bar, and then we see another European country go for it. Let us try to work together in Europe to see if we can move everyone to our own standards, which would of course be the best thing. But my question was whether you would prefer to opt for a harmonised whole rather than our own high standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u181	Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u182	I don't know. I have just confirmed under Yemen that Mr Blok and I are raising the standard, in line with the motion adopted, also in the spirit of Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. I think we're talking about standards and values, and that's different from standards. Standards are technical. In the context of arms exports, the regime and the procedures that are being followed are very strict and apply to everyone. Then you also have for dual use elements that are covered by the Wassenaararrangement. It is always the case that the Netherlands is looking at what the others are doing, because everyone wants to keep the level playing field. Then the question is whether you really should not make an effort to ensure that everyone rises up. There it is that everyone is using the same decision-making process as Mr Van Haga means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u183	Mr. Stoffer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u184	I thought there was going to be something else about people with disabilities, but that didn't seem to fit under a heading. We're just gonna do it under the other heading. I'm sure you can. I asked a question about special criteria for subsidy frameworks for people with disabilities. I have received a good answer in itself, which I am pleased with, namely that these people are really explicitly addressed in the context of inclusiveness. There are also very good organisations that are involved. I'm looking for what's gonna be the result. What will you notice when you live with restrictions in Africa, for example? It may be a very practical question, but I'm a little concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u185	I understand that. Apologies to Mr Stoffer, Mr President, I confused my written answer with my oral answer. We always look at vulnerability and support organisations that pursue that goal. That can be an organization that focuses on people who live with disabilities. Or one who does it in the context of training. Children with learning retardation or reading disability are therefore also included. We support that, but it is always within the framework of a wider programme. I'm not familiar with a lot of programs, but I just need to check it out. I will come back to that in the second term as confirmation, with an indication of the number of partners we support who are exclusively targeting people who live with mental or physical disabilities. You can assume that we are paying attention to vulnerability and will have even more. And this can be a form of vulnerability, especially in developing countries. For example, through the Red Cross, we also support programs that help rehabilitate people who need a prosthesis. These are people who have been victims of war violence and have lost a limb or become blind. Of all these kinds of programs I do not have all the details, but it is very much at project level. I am familiar with a number of examples and we would like to share them in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u186	I do not think that it will succeed in doing so in detail in second term, so as far as I am concerned it may be done later. I'm just really curious where we do that, and so on. So thank you for the answer and I see one day... Well, not "never," but I'd like to see this on paper within a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u187	I will send you a brief description of a number of programmes, after a little better research, which we ourselves still have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u188	There is another question from Mr Voordewind. That's his last question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we are at the end of the debate, I am asking the one question I still have to ask. Something has been said about it in the written reply, but I would like to come back to the faith-based organizations. The Minister says that we are indeed going to pay more attention to this, including in the teachings of religion and diplomacy. I thank the Minister for that. My only question is whether civil society organisations and their knowledge and skills are involved in this. Or is this just an internal training? Because there is a lot of expertise in that area. So if the minister says, "Well, I'm willing to use it," then those organizations are willing to give their input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u190	The whole course is given by an external organization. For novice diplomats and framework, the Institute Clingendael is often used, often using other external partners, including representatives of civil society. It is of course a very specific form of knowledge and experience. I can only imagine that external partner organisations are indeed being approached. I can confirm it briefly in the second term, but I can already see the Secretary-General of the Ministry nodding. It is also covered by the official summit. So I dare to confirm this, if my nearsightedness doesn't bother me. That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the second term of office, but I shall first give you the opportunity to wash your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u192	We have arrived at the second term of office. Speaking time is in the window. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg from the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers, but they have not been able to convince me of the usefulness and need of development aid. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch have traditionally been very generous and can very well decide for themselves whether and to what charity they want to donate their money to;]] [[calls on the government not to spend another penny on development aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Weerdenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u194	Mr. Chairman. In response to my question about the grant to the Open Society Institute from Soros Foundations Network, the Minister said that she would return to this in the second term if she considers it relevant. The Minister's addition really bumps my heart. This is an organisation where Dutch taxpayers' money goes and I question the way that organisation spends that money. That's very relevant. I think that's relevant, because otherwise I wouldn't ask the question. I firmly believe that the Minister is responding. If that is not possible in the second term, I would ask her to do so in writing. To strengthen that request and to show the Minister how relevant the PVV finds this point, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that grants are made each year to the Open Society Institute, part of the Soros Foundations Network;]] [[Whereas the activities financed by organisations affiliated to the Soros Foundations Network are controversial and raise resistance from a significant part of the Dutch population;]] [[calls on the Government to stop entering into new financial obligations with organisations associated with the Soros Foundations Network and also to explore ways of accelerating the reduction of existing obligations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Weerdenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u195	Mr. Chairman. I hope that this last motion will have broad support in this Chamber, because every party in this Chamber must be opposed to using Dutch taxpayers' money to sponsor an activist billionaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u196	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. Then I will go to the next speaker, Mr Van Haga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u197	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. As usual, all my questions have been answered. I'm amazed at that every time, but it happens anyway. Thanks also to all officials who probably worked all night. Hats off for that. It has been an educational debate, for me too, even in the last few days. Almost all the topics in the world have come along and we have all tried to make the world a little better again, and maybe we have succeeded. Mr. Chairman. The VVD is also pleased that the global climate has been discussed, and it is good that we are going to talk about palm oil separately, for example. The VVD's amendments on solar and indoor air pollution also contribute to this, and I hope for broad support in the near future. A WakaWaka light or an ACE indoor cooking stove doesn't cost that much at all and it does have a huge impact. We are also co-signatory of the following amendments. The Diks amendment on female circumcision congratulates this wonderful amendment. The Kuik amendment to combat tuberculosis, the so-called 'fucking amendment'. I've had to laugh about it, but it's a serious subject. The Amhaouch amendment for the Smart Agri-Food Innovation Hubs and the Voordewind amendment for the Child Labour Fund. Finally, the Voordewind amendment for the Dutch Relief Alliance. We're all gonna sign off on that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to make a few more motions. I would like to thank the Minister for explaining the focus countries. I didn't know it was about 68 countries, but I'm sticking to my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the government agreement and the Investing in Perspective policy paper highlight the importance of focus in the deployment;]] [[noting that the focus is now on intensification in the focus regions of Sahel, Horn of Africa, Middle East and North Africa;]] [[also noted that the Rutte II cabinet reduced the number of countries with an intensive development relationship from 33 to 15, while many central OS programmes for, inter alia, private sector development, civil society partnerships and SRGR remained open to a much larger number of countries;]] [[Whereas limiting the number of countries where the Netherlands works bilaterally in the field of development cooperation can make Dutch efforts more visible and effective;]] [[calls on the government to indicate how bilateral aid efforts can be more focused on the focus regions across the board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u198	Mr. Chairman. The share of ODA money to Dutch companies is still very small. As far as we're concerned, it needs to get bigger. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch taxpayers' money is spent on development aid;]] [[Considering that the share of the business channel in total ODA spending is relatively small, as the General Court concluded earlier, and that the business sector has a relatively small role at all in the implementation of the Dutch OS policy;]] [[whereas it is a good thing to involve Dutch expertise and Dutch companies more actively in the deployment of development aid;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to increase the share of the business channel in ODA spending,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u199	Mr. Chairman. Together with Mr Van Weerdenburg of the PVV, I present the next motion, which should lead to more transparency and more insight into how and where our money is spent. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that information on development cooperation projects, transactions, results and impact is currently fragmented, inscrutable and partially invisible;]] [[Whereas developments in the digital domain already make it possible to link and unlock projects, project information, transactions, results and impact, subject to unintended contributions to multilateral organisations;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with organisations such as openaidNL, to explore how data available at the Ministry and implementing organisations can be published in full and on a single website, and to inform the Chamber of the possibilities as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Weerdenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u200	I had prepared many more motions, but because of the excellent response by the Minister this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u201	That's how you see it. Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Mrs Diks van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and his support for the reply, especially for the great support that was expressed for the amendment I tabled together with the MPI at SRGR to really do something with girls' circumcision and genital mutilation in the Netherlands. Of course, we are talking about the external trade and development cooperation budget, but of course genital circumcision must be eliminated worldwide. I have three motions; I'm doing my best. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in its policy paper for the coming years, the Minister has set ambitious targets for the Dutch role in the field of sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRGR) and that it is important to consider ongoing and new initiatives within this policy subject in a coherent manner in order to achieve the greatest possible global impact;]] [[calls on the Government to report together in the annual report on the progress of all ongoing initiatives and new initiatives in the field of sexual and reproductive health and rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of the utmost importance that diplomatic posts ensure that these activities fit within the framework of corporate social responsibility in order to increase trade opportunities for Dutch companies and that the appropriate framework conditions are created for Dutch companies;]] [[Whereas the current IMMO Directive for diplomatic posts is a limited document which does not create clear frameworks for the operation of diplomatic posts;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a more comprehensive IMBO Directive for Dutch embassies, to include in any event that the embassies are expected not to support companies in activities not in line with OECD guidelines and UN Guiding Principles, and to inform the Chamber about this in the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the UN Emissions Gap Report presented this week shows that countries worldwide need to triple their efforts to keep global warming below 2°C;]] [[noting that the Broad Prosperity Monitor shows that the Netherlands is the largest importer of fossil energy sources from all European countries, in particular from the least developed countries;]] [[noting that the Dutch government continues to support the economic activities of fossil energy companies, for example through export credit insurance;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that at the end of this cabinet period all government financial and diplomatic support for imports and exports of fossil energy sources has been phased out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u204	Thank you, Mrs Diks. I'm going to the next speaker. That's Mrs. Kuik from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u205	Thank you, Chairman. I am very relaxed here because we have minutes left of all budgets. That's why I don't have to be sparing with the compliments. Thank you to the Minister and also to the officials for their hard work in answering all our questions. Let me say that it is not a punishment to discuss this budget with this trade minister, who knows what she is talking about, who has been to the places we are talking about. Mr. Chairman. I also see involvement in society, young and old. When I was on the Giro555 call panel for the Sulawesi disaster, I was on the phone with young and old. And yet I can see that we are more in an OS bubble. We are talking about SRGR, SDGs, imvo and gender, but we are making a difference in many areas. I am thinking of the many hectares that we have made land mine-free, access to clean drinking water, access to education. And bringing that closer to the OS policy, I think, is an assignment we have. We need to bring more Dutch people, we need to take young people with us, and I think it is very easy to do so with such a concerned minister. I recently went to work at Count College and there I saw a beautiful project: car mechanics who went to Ethiopia. That was done in collaboration with a car company. This is a unique opportunity to gain additional work experience, but there will also be themes on the agenda that are international. It is about social enterprise and about, literally, groundbreaking thinking and doing things. These MBOs are once again the ambassadors of development policy. The CDA thinks this is a great way to share expertise and involve young people in development cooperation. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that knowledge exchange programmes lead to greater mutual understanding;]] [[noting that traineeship programmes in OS countries can be a very enriching experience for MBO students;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an action plan to promote knowledge exchange and internship opportunities at MBO level in the OS domain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Bouali, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u206	Mr. Chairman. I think it makes sense to look at this together with Minister Van Engelshoven of Education. I also look forward to the appreciation of the amendments we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. The next speaker was Mr Amhaouch, also member of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion. Unfortunately, Minister. But I would like to thank the Minister for the answers. I saw a wary minister in the introduction of the second term: the commitment the Minister made for the responsibility for the earning capacity of the Netherlands does the CDA well. Mkb, start-ups, for which we have also tabled an amendment on agri-food innovation, circular economy and top sectors, internationalisation: these are also important components for the CDA that the Minister appointed. The most important thing is not responding, but the Netherlands trading country. For us as CDA, these are important starting points for the trade agenda in this cabinet period. It's a joint mission we have to go through. I stand up as Ambassador of SDG 8 for a fair, sustainable economy. I repeat that prosperity growth on a continent like Africa can also mean maintaining prosperity growth for Europe. I took the figures and saw that we, the Netherlands, are exporting around 17 billion to the US, a country of about 300 million inhabitants and 52 states. We are currently exporting to the continent of Africa for 14 billion, to 55 countries. The potential growth is enormous and so is the potential opportunities to help the people there and to market our own ecosystem there. This must always be done on the basis of the principle of fair trade, which the CDA stands for. Mr. Chairman. On the last point, the trade agreements, I would like to come back at another time. We make a lot of trade agreements. We have seen that we have had quite political debates at the first trade agreement, TTIP with the Americans. There was a lot of discussion about that, but in the meantime we are concluding a lot of trade agreements. We are already trading with countries, but we can make this easier for our entrepreneurs, for customs directives or for import duties. I think we need to get a lot more out of that. I look forward to the answer to some of the questions I have just asked, including on the Palestinian economy, on the African medium-term strategy and on insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u209	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Mrs Karabulut of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u210	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. If we want to prevent war, conflict, poverty and exclusion, then the arms industry, and certainly the large arms companies selling arms to Saudi Arabia and the coalition partners, who then drop those bombs on the children in Yemen, must be stopped. I welcome the announced tightening up of arms exports to Saudi Arabia and the coalition, and I am convinced that we will eventually arrive at a Dutch arms embargo. We'll talk about that later. I am also pleased and pleased with the Minister's commitment to engage with Dutch life insurance companies that invest billions in these arms companies. I look forward to the result. Finally, I welcome the Minister's remark that she is making a very clear cut between development cooperation for achieving global targets against poverty and inequality, and defence and foreign policy. Which brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that development funds are intended for development;]] [[Considering that cooperation with Africa is taking place in a variety of ways to address the root causes of migration and to control migratory flows;]] [[Considering that development cooperation is closely monitored for effectiveness and that cooperation with Africa under migration control should also comply with this;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that criteria of effectiveness are set for all cooperation, including those from the EU, and to exclude the indirect or direct use of ODA money for border control;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u211	Talking about Africa. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more money flows from Africa than goes into it;]] [[noting that Dutch multinationals are withdrawing billions from the African economy, including through tax avoidance;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with African countries, to develop a plan against tax avoidance and a sustainable and inclusive investment plan for jobs in Africa;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u212	All in two minutes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u213	Nice. Thank you. Your group colleague, Mr Alkaya, also from the SP, will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the officials for the correct answer. In the first term, I asked the Minister whether she would accept responsibility for monitoring the multinationals operating here in the Netherlands. She has said that she feels at least co-responsibility for this control, and that is good, because we often talk to her about ways in which we could do it best. Should we make international agreements in the UN context? Do we have to make national laws? And even less far-reaching: should we perhaps declare the good initiatives that are being taken in sectors and which are laid down in agreements generally binding in that sector? And then, as the last and least far-reaching variant, we are talking about whether we should not just support those companies with subsidies and trade missions that are responsible. That's a policy that's already in place, but I'm afraid to put my hand in the fire that's waterproof. I am convinced that this is not waterproof and that companies are still receiving aid that are not responsible. And although I see the Minister is taking this seriously, still the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government intends to use the transparency benchmark as a measure of commitment and action to the OECD Guidelines, but that currently companies that do not participate in the transparency benchmark continue to participate in trade missions and are not excluded from funding;]] [[Considers that a public organisation should have the task of ensuring that companies that state that they agree with the OECD guidelines actually do so and that it does not participate in the transparency benchmark should at least give rise to further investigation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in further developing the transparency benchmark, whether a public organisation is designated or set up to monitor whether companies claiming to subscribe to the OECD guidelines are also acting in this respect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u215	Thank you, Mr President. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for her answers. We are, of course, looking forward to the Minister's appreciation of the amendments we have tabled. On foreign trade and development cooperation, my group has a number of particular concerns. In any case, the SDGs are leading and they remain leading. D66 wants to move the world forward, and that's why we're investing in equality of opportunity. This means increased commitment to education, increased commitment to combating climate change and increased commitment to promoting women's rights. When it comes to trade, my party is in favour of trade agreements, because trade leads to growth, jobs and prosperity. But that trade must take place on the condition that we are aware of any harmful side effects. That is why D66 works together with many others, both inside and outside the Chamber, to make the trade chains more sustainable. I would also like to dwell on the additional investments made by this cabinet. We are talking about a great deal of money, over 2.6 billion in four years, and my group is very pleased with that. I am therefore convinced that the money is in good hands with this very competent minister, who clearly set out her goals in the policy paper. That is also what we see coming back to this budget debate. Finally, Mr President. Some parties say they want to invest in development cooperation, but often fail to do so when it really matters, for example by doing nothing in their counter-budgets. Together with other parties, we are very much committed to development cooperation. In doing so, we invest in equality of opportunity and give perspective to the poorest of the world. Because that's what it's about in the end; that we're helping the world a bit forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u216	Thank you, Mr. Bouali. I would ask you to come forward, Mrs van den Hul, from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Worldwide we see inequality growing between, but also within, countries. Today it is about reaching the most vulnerable, about making sure that they too get better and that they are safe. The award of the Nobel Peace Prize to Dr Mukwege and Nadia Murad is an important signal to victims or, as many victims prefer to call themselves, survivors of sexual violence. For it is precisely those in whom trust has been violated in such a gruesome manner that deserve to be seen and heard. That is why first of all the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sexual violence is used in and around conflict areas as a weapon of war against women and girls in particular;]] [[Considering that in view of the context, detection and conviction of offenders is often impossible, which often means that there is no recognition and satisfaction for victims;]] [[considers that victims of sexual violence also deserve recognition and satisfaction;]] [[calls on the Government to take the lead in EU and/or UN efforts to find ways of redressing and recognising victims of sexual violence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u218	Mr. Chairman. Everyone must be able to be sure of a decent existence, including those who have had to leave their homes through war, violence or disaster. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still many shelter camps in the Mediterranean region where people live in degrading conditions;]] [[calls on the Government to identify which reception camps it is contributing to, whether indirectly or not, at present meeting UNHCR requirements, thereby clarifying the shortcomings;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u219	Mr. Chairman. We are very happy to hear that the Minister is working on our motion on "Now I'm going to try it in Dutch too "a European early warning system on the shrinking space for civil society'. In the area of freedom of expression and human rights, the EU already has clear guidelines, but not on freedom of peaceful association and assembly for civil society. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the freedom and space of civil society organisations and active citizens worldwide, including trade unions, human rights defenders, journalists and environmental activists, is increasingly declining;]] [[considers that the European Union is not yet sufficiently united in countering this development and the associated risks to the rule of law and democracies;]] [[calls on the government at EU level to develop guidelines on freedom of peaceful association and civil society assembly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u220	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday and today there has been a lot of attention on the theme SRGR, from different frames or from different angles. In some we can find ourselves better than in others. But still there are organisations that suffer from the "global gargoyle" "I really can't translate that into Dutch," by President Trump. And those are the organizations that help SheDecides. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that women and girls should be guaranteed worldwide access to safe contraception and abortion;]] [[noting that US President Trump has stopped funding these facilities for millions of women in developing countries;]] [[Whereas the Asscher/Ploumen motion, which was taken over, requested that these organizations continue to support them in words and deed through SheDecides;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the above motion in the allocation of SRGR resources and to make it clear what contribution it makes to the aforementioned organisations through SheDecides,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. The next speaker is Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go around the world in four minutes. That's gonna be tough. I thank the Minister for her commitment to the poorest in the world. She's right about her reaction to colleague Van Haga. It is not possible to apply one-size-fits-all to combating injustice, inequality, abuse and violence against girls, the migratory flows we know, child labour and so on. The world is far too complicated for that. That really calls for tailor-made help and also for help and trade. Hence our compliments on the Minister's response to this issue. I would also like to thank the Minister for her constant commitment and pressure to constantly draw attention to the fate of the refugees who are in inhumane situations, not only in Libya but also in Lesbos and other Greek islands. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned the importance of religion. We have tabled a motion to the Foreign Affairs budget, along with the CDA and others, to create a special envoy for religion. I'll give it to the minister. Maybe this person can put the subject further on the map, including at her ministry. I assume that this can have a flywheel effect, even when it comes to the equipment of employees and diplomats. The Christian Union has tabled two amendments, one to strengthen emergency aid and reception in the region by 10 million. I am thinking in particular of Syria and the countries around Syria. We have also tabled an amendment, together with colleagues, on child labour, an important subject that has also been mentioned in the coalition agreement. I hope that can get the support of the rest of the Chamber. Then there's the motions. One motion, which we submit together with the VVD, concerns the bonuses for convicted Palestinian terrorists. I would like to thank the Minister for her firm position on this subject as well. She has rejected the link between the length of the sentence and the amount of benefits. There wasn't a word of Spanish in there. It is even prepared to make a reduction in the contribution to the Palestinian Authority next year if the system does not change. I appreciate that very much. To make that quite clear, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Palestinian Authority transfers monthly funds to convicted Palestinians, including terrorists in Israeli prisons, and to their family members, and that the amount of the benefit depends on the duration of the detention;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has repeatedly made efforts through the EU and the UN to end this perverse financial incentive;]] [[Whereas efforts in the Netherlands have contributed to increasing the link between the length of detention and the level of payments within the EU;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to make maximum efforts to urge the Palestinian Authority, together with other EU Member States and EU institutions, to decouple the amount of payments to the detention period;]] [[if the Palestinian Authority does not end the link between the length of the detention and the amount of the benefit, end next year the Dutch contribution to the salaries of the Palestinian Authority for the legal sector at EUR 1.5 million, and spend the money released through other partners on strengthening the rule of law and improving human rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u223	(NL) Mr President, one final motion. I will submit this together with Mr Kuik of the CDA. The motion concerns the Challenge Fund set up by the Minister. I'm going to give her another request. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Voordewind/Kuiik motion adopted calls for a perspective for African young people by investing in employment and entrepreneurship;]] [[Whereas a new Challenge Fund for Youth Employment should focus on investment in companies with growth potential, encouraging young people and women to start their own businesses, strengthening (vocational) training and achieving better integration into the labour market;]] [[Considering that the greatest impact is achieved when civil society organisations, companies and knowledge institutions join forces;]] [[calls on the government to focus the EUR 30 million invested in the Challenge Fund for Youth Employment primarily on civil society organisations, businesses and/or knowledge institutions, or their consortia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u224	I wish the Minister much wisdom and strength in standing up for the poorest in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u225	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Also on the part of the Animal Party thank the Minister for answering the questions and her commitment to the poorest people in the world and those who really need our help; vulnerable girls and women and other vulnerable people. We have a lot of confidence in the Minister's commitment to that. But we also said that this is a two-faced budget. It is therefore very important to take a close look at our own contribution to the misery in the world and the question of where we can possibly reduce it, where this can be done. Thank you, therefore, to the Minister for at least showing an open attitude towards, for example, our own consumption. The Party for Animals doesn't just wear that. This is also mentioned, for example, by the rapporteur on the right to food and in the UN Environment Programme. A study has also been published today that says that we are simply not going to achieve our goals if we continue with this massive consumption of meat and dairy in the rich West. So it's nice that the Minister is open to the simple idea of turning the norm: make the default option vegetable and if you want animal, you have to ask for it. Exactly the other way around what we're doing right now. It does not cost anything, but it does have a very positive impact on peace and security in the world and thus contributes to the Minister's agenda. Mr. Chairman. So it is important to look at the other leg as well and therefore to look critically at the impact of our economy and our trade on the living conditions of others in the world. I shall therefore table a number of motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the production of palm oil on a large scale involves the removal of rainforests, expelling people from their land and losing endangered animals even more habitat, which means, for example, that the orangutang is on the verge of extinction;]] [[noting that the approach taken by industry to making palm oil more sustainable through the Roundtable established in 2004 has not been able to achieve a tangible improvement in this situation;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is one of the largest importers of palm oil;]] [[calls on the Government to present a plan of action to drastically reduce imports of palm oil in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that a trade agreement, like that with Mercosur countries, will not be possible if the Paris climate agreement is not implemented by all the contracting parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-46]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u227	Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Minister and the Cabinet will be open to the consequences of the way we are used to living for the most vulnerable in the world. The way we live requires two, three, three and a half globes and there are simply no such things. We're gonna have to do it within the weight of the earth. Well, that's a lot to ask, but it's necessary. I remind you of the Swedish climate striker Greta Thunberg. The Minister has put the climate strikers here in front of the Chamber a heartfelt heartfelt. Greta Thunberg actually says: why should I go to school when politicians do nothing with the knowledge that is already available? It is not about more research; it is about the courage to do what is necessary. In this light, the Animal Party wishes to consider that we are at the end of the budgetary cycle. We have received the Millions note and dealt with all the sub-budgets. We can only conclude that the government's policy for 2019 is driving global warming at 3°C, while major policy changes are needed. We want to see that now and we hope that we will not have to do it again next year. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the Millions Note and the underlying sub-budgets for 2019 are not in line with the objective of limiting (proportionally) global warming to a maximum of 1,5°C,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Raan, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Teunissen and Mr Akerboom.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u229	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then the floor is addressed to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u230	Mr. Chairman. A wonderful mission that Jesus gave us was: Love your neighbor as yourself. But at the same time that is also one of the most difficult tasks. I did like the fact that I heard something about this budget, both in the Chamber and in the Minister's office. That does do me good, but at the same time it also does an apple on myself, because it is always a difficult task for whoever you are and wherever you are. In that context, I have three motions, and I am trying to table them, and I will see if we can do our neighbor a little bit more justice with them. The first reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many people worldwide, including minors, are victims of abuse, abuse and oppression due to impunity due to inadequate functioning of administrative and legal systems;]] [[calls on the Government, the fight against impunity and the promotion of good governance (SDG 16) to make explicit targets for diplomatic posts and, where necessary, to provide broad support to relevant NGOs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that several crises put considerable pressure on the budget for "regular" development cooperation (ODA);]] [[calls on the government to continue its efforts to comply with international agreements on investing 0.7% of gross national income in ODA,]] [[calls on the Government to make clear which part of ODA is used as leverage for private investment in developing countries, and to further promote this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-49]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u231	And then the last one, Mr. Chairman. I also announced it yesterday in a press release: fuck everybody! My motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas access to sanitation is crucial for public health, the prevention of child mortality and the prevention of early school leaving;]] [[Whereas achieving the objective of access to sanitation for 50 million people by 2030 requires an increase in the number of people to be reached from around 2.4 million people per year by 2020 to around 3.8 million people from 2020;]] [[Whereas this calls for substantial additional efforts, possibly with budgetary implications;]] [[calls on the Minister to draw up an ambitious and credible plan to achieve the 2030 target and to inform the Chamber of its progress and costs;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u233	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. The last speaker is Mr Kuzu of the group of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the support for the first-term responses. From the DENK Group two motions. The first motion is: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this cabinet's investment in development cooperation is not enough to reverse previous austerity;]] [[noting that the internationally agreed standard of 0.7% of gross national income for development cooperation for the third year in a row is not met;]] [[Considers that a larger investment is needed to meet the complex global challenges and to invest structurally in the future of the poorest;]] [[calls on the Government to return to a contribution of 0.7% of GNI to development cooperation in no later than five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u235	We had a brief debate with the Minister on the situation in Myanmar and Bangladesh. I understand that there is indeed a voluntary return, under the heading of motivating refugees in camps to return to Myanmar. This while in Myanmar, in the Rakhine region, the extremist Buddhists are already ready to protest the return of the Rohingya. That is why it is important to table this motion. I hope for a positive advice from the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that more than 700,000 Rohingya fled to Bangladesh last year, after the Myanmari army increasingly used violence against the Rohingya;]] [[Notes that Myanmar and Bangladesh have reached an agreement on the return of Rohingya refugees, while Rohingya still flees Myanmar;]] [[Considering that according to the UN Human Rights Council there is a genocide on the Rohingya;]] [[Whereas neither Bangladesh nor Myanmar's civilian government can guarantee the security of the Rohingya in Myanmar;]] [[considers that there should be no return under duress;]] [[Calls on the Government to continue addressing the safe return of the Rohingya in international and bilateral contacts and to stress the importance of repatriation under international law;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at UN level, that there should be no return under duress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XVII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u236	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that I am also the last speaker of the Chamber in these budgetary debates. I am proud that we have been able to use our contribution to the last second and have tabled many motions. I would also like to say that we had many more motions, amendments and proposals ready to make the Netherlands fairer and fairer. I hope that at the next elections more people will vote for DENK, so that we have more time to make more proposals for a fairer and fairer Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u237	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u238	I have one small addition, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 49 against impunity, SDG 16, on behalf of Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u239	Sorry. Can you repeat what you said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u240	Oh, yeah. The first motion I tabled on SDG 16, the fight against impunity, I would like to table with Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u241	We have the signature of the motion in part No. Forty-nine have already been amended. We're gonna suspend for 20 minutes and then we're gonna move on to the Minister's second term. I would ask my fellow Members to do it in the second term so that only the first authors of motions put one short question on this matter if the opinion is not quite as it should be. I ask the Minister to take up the questions that remain and the appreciation of the cabinet staccato.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u242	The next item is the budget for external trade and development cooperation. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one initial comment. After that, I'll respond by the party. If there's a question I can answer briefly, I will. I will appoint the motions and then the amendments. We just organized it per member of the Chamber and per party. Just a preliminary remark or a note. Of course, there's extra money this time. This is because the gross national product or income is calculated in a different way. That's because of the source revision. It was implemented very late this year. This time, this is beneficial to the budget of Foreign Trade and OS. That was not yet certain when this budget was drawn up, let alone clear. Exceptionally, therefore, additional money is available that has not yet been allocated or spent. The House of Representatives comes with many wishes, as I have seen in the amendments. A large proportion of them are policy support or follow-up. That is actually the best we can wish for: the note is widely worn. But we can't accept everything. And caution, especially with money, remains very important. It is therefore an exceptional situation. Then I would like to move on to two questions from Mrs Van Weerdenburg. My comment, if relevant, focused on the fact that we did not expect to obtain or find information in the short term. Then Islamic education. We still finance public education through the Global Partnership for Education, UNICEF and other UN institutions. Quality comes first. So that's what we're gonna do. So we don't look at religion, but we don't finance Islamic education on this basis. The second was a comment. There is no funding from Soros or the Open Society Foundation. The foundation is working together, just like we work together with, for example, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation or the Clinton Foundation. The foundations themselves are respected partners, with which the Netherlands cooperates, depending on the situation, provided that it is relevant. SDG 17 is also appointed. Furthermore, between 2006 and 2012 I need to look a little bit in Armenia, Macedonia and Georgia funded five previous projects, worth EUR 2.4 million. There is one ongoing project, in Kazakhstan, for human rights representatives. Then there are Mrs Van Weerdenburg's motions. The motion in part No. 28 doesn't go to development cooperation anymore. I'd advise against it. We have seen this before. The motion in part No. 29. There is no longer any funding of George Soros and the Open Society Foundation. So I'd like to dissuade that motion. There is, as I reported, one more ongoing human rights programme. We attach great importance to the foundation's work. Then I will continue with the questions of Mr Van Haga of the VVD. Just to confirm on UNHCR: it is an adaptation, not a reduction. That has to do with specific apples. Then I come to the motion on part No. 30 by Mr Van Haga on more geographical focus in bilateral development cooperation. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. I think our note is already doing this in its implementation. Then the motion to part No. 31 by Mr Van Haga on Dutch expertise. Actually, I'd like to ask for an arrest. When it comes to the use of Dutch expertise, there will be a letter about the financial instruments. It is better for the Chamber to wait for it. My request would be to hold that motion, because then we can also take note of the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u244	Mr. Van Haga? We're talking about the motion in part No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u245	Yeah, if there's another letter coming, I'm fine with holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u246	At the request of Mr Van Haga, I propose his motion (35000-XVII, No. 31). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u247	Thank you. Then there is a motion by Mr Van Haga and Mrs Van Weerdenburg on the integral display of OS data on a single website. Judgment Room. As I have already appointed, this work is already taking place. I also named the dates and the specific details. Then there are the amendments. The amendment in part No. 12, by Mr Van Haga, calls for structural 5 million for innovative initiatives in the field of solar energy. I see that as support for policy. It also contributes to Paris' commitment to climate finance, so Court judgment. The amendment in part No. 13 on indoor air pollution I leave to the judgment of the Chamber. It's policy support again. Clean cooking leads to emission reduction. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 14, tabled by Mr Van Haga. I would like to take this together with the Bouali/Kuik amendment to point No. 22. These are two amendments calling for 10 million for contraception for young people, especially girls and women in focus regions. It may be an unusual request, but I was hoping that there might eventually be a consolidated amendment. They are the same proposals in terms of implementation. The necessity is clear. This is also entirely in line with policy, as I have explained today. 10 million is, I think, the maximum, most visible and most relevant intensification. We do not need to talk about the content. I will leave both amendments to the Court's opinion, with the remark that EUR 10 million is the optimum amount, not EUR 20 million. Then there are Mrs Diks van GroenLinks' questions. There will be an evaluation of the contribution of the diaspora in the Netherlands to the development of the country of origin. I would ask you to await this evaluation. In any case, the evaluation will be sent to you in mid 2019. Then there's Mrs. Diks' motion. The report shall be reported in the results report of BH-OS and the annual report. That's where it's taken. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u248	I see that there is confusion as to which motion this concerns. This is about the Diks motion in part No. 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u249	Yeah, the motion to part No. 33 is therefore the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u250	Of course, I can see the time, just like everyone else. The Minister replied to my question about the letter on the diaspora, thank you for that, we look forward to that, but I had also asked a question about the Climate Fund. SDG 13 is now only mentioned, not SDGs 14 and 15. If we are talking about the Climate Fund, would you also like to go into the SDGs 14 and 15?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u251	If there is a discussion about the Climate Fund, we can discuss all the elements. The Climate Fund is described in detail in the BuHa-OS note. It also contains objectives and scope. The letter is a performance of that. We will of course come back to that at the right time. Then I come to the motion by Mr Diks/Van den Hul on part No. 34. This is standing policy. We always give a comprehensive instruction to posts, including on the use of an economic toolbox. Take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u252	I just need to check to see if anyone opposes taking over this motion. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u253	Then the motion-Diks in part No. 35 on the phasing out of financial and diplomatic support for all fossil energy sources before the end of the cabinet period. I would like to ask whether this motion can be held pending the letter of funding. I will also come back to this theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u254	I see Mrs. Diks nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u255	Then there is the amendment to item No. 23, tabled by Mrs Diks, Mrs Ouwehand, Mrs Van den Hul, Mr Bouali, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Haga, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Karabulut. Judgment Room. We talked about this. There is a multi-party initiative to prevent girl circumcision. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the CDA. Mr Amhaouch's first question concerned the involvement of the Global Risk Financing Facility and its relationship to the insurance sector. The cabinet will join this G7 initiative. That is, I believe, also mentioned in the letter. This whole initiative is still in the start-up phase. We will examine how the Dutch insurance sector can contribute. A question has been asked about a special strategy regarding engagement in Africa. I actually want to confirm that we have a lot of strategies and that, of course, we are committed to the whole area of EU/Netherlands and Africa, whether it be migration, development cooperation or investment. I would like to talk about this at a separate moment. But we have our own agenda, and it fits in nicely. Then I'll move on to the motions. That's the motion in part No. 36
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u256	That is a motion by Mrs Kuik, Mr Bouali, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u257	Exactly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for helping me. I was just looking for the name Amhaouch, but it's a motion from Mrs. Kuik, the other CDA spokesperson. The motion calls on the government to develop an action plan to promote knowledge exchange and internship opportunities at MBO level in the OS domain. I think it's a nice motion. I would like to ask if Mrs Kuik can continue the motion, because we would like to see for ourselves first. It's too soon. I can't commit to an action plan if I don't know what the contours are yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u258	Mrs. Kuik nods in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u259	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u260	At the request of Mrs Kuik, I propose her motion (35000-XVII, No. 36). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u261	With the amendment in part No. 24 by Mrs Kuik, Mr Voordewind, Mr Bouali and Mr Van Haga, an additional 5 million will be devoted to the deployment of new diagnostics and treatment in the field of tuberculosis. I leave the amendment to the House's discretion. It also fits into policy. I think it is a sympathetic amendment. The amendment in part No. 25 by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Haga and Mr Bouali shall be judged Chamber. It also fits perfectly into the policy. However, I would like to make the point that, of course, we should also give room for other start-ups, for example in the area of ICT. The amendment talks about Smart Agri-Food Innovation Hubs and Agrytechs. Depending on the needs, it may be slightly wider than the agri-food sector. I am thinking in particular of the ICT sector. There's a lot of start-ups there, too. Then I come to the questions, the motions and the amendments tabled by the SP. What is the government doing to prevent tax evasion? I have actually already named most of what I can look at from the BuHa-OS agenda. We share the concerns. We don't have to find out again. Indeed, it is true that we are missing a lot of development money because of tax avoidance. We are working with tax authorities and customs to strengthen capacity. The Dutch Tax Administration also has a formidable expertise that is recognised at a global level. And we also work through the World Bank and the OECD. We will look even more closely at capacity building, including with the use of our own resources. We work through the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project of the OECD and the G20. Measures against treaty abuse are also being developed. This will be closely monitored. Furthermore, I will also pass on this question to my colleague from Finance, Secretary of State Snel. A question has been asked about the intention to use UN-VR sanctions against starvation, as my colleague Minister Blok has done at EU level. In the UN-VR context, arguing for thematic sanctions is not really feasible. There's no consensus at all. That is what Minister Blok has said. We've tried it before on the theme of sexual exploitation. What we can do, and what we are committed to, is to include it in existing sanction regimes or when they are set up. This will allow specific criteria to be taken into account. The issue of conflict and hunger is then also weighed up by a sanctioning regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u262	Through the efforts of this Minister, Resolution 2417 was adopted. The only effort I ask of the cabinet is to arrive at sanctions, to apply them to Yemen in this case. Does the Minister now say that this resolution is there, but we cannot work on its implementation? 'Cause I don't quite get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u263	There are two things. I read the question in such a way that it was a question of using sanctions against starvation. We know from other experiences that a special sanction regime only works on this issue and directed at one country, sometimes not. Should sanctions be imposed, this could be the case against those who have committed human rights violations, then you can make a headline underneath which pays particular attention to those who have committed hunger as a means of conflict. So it's different. First of all, it is a question of setting up a system of sanctions. If that is the case, then the question is: what are the elements of the sanction regime? This seems feasible in the future. Of course, we will continue to work on this resolution. But giving a realistic assessment of how feasible it is, that's another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u264	Can the Minister promise that she will make an effort in the UN Security Council as long as we sit there, and otherwise outside through the UN, to bring sanctions specifically for Yemen for those who indeed have starvation as a weapon of war? How she gets there and by which route, I'd like to hear that from her. I understand it's a long and complicated route. But at least let's stay on top of it. I also want to be able to follow developments through feedback to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u265	This is, of course, something that concerns my colleague Mr Blok in particular. I can commit to commitment, but I cannot commit to the details of my colleague Blok's commitment. I can commit to the commitment, because the Netherlands is quite proud of this resolution. Of course, for all sad reasons, we also want to see imitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u266	I also have a question on the previous point. I asked the Minister a question about tax evasion. That was thanks to the efforts of my predecessor, Eric Smaling. Through the Ministry, he had been given an overview of what is going from the Netherlands to the African countries on ODA funds and what is leaving the country through tax avoidance and evasion. Can the Minister give that overview for the past year? Maybe she can just report this to the Chamber in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u267	If there is already an existing process and if it is feasible to do so, we can send an update. I'll confirm that, at least if it's actually produced by my ministry. Then I'll come to the motions. First of all, I come to the motion on the effectiveness criterion in relation to ODA and border surveillance. I advise against this motion, because support for border control is not an ODA. The same applies to the Netherlands and the EU. So the effectiveness criterion does not apply in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u268	The motion in part No. 37 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u269	The motion in part No. 38 is about money flows to Africa and earning power, with a reference to Dutch multinationals, which, according to the operative part, withdraw billions from the African economy. The motion calls on the government to agree on a plan against tax avoidance. This problem is widely shared. These problems can certainly not only be solved by the Netherlands in consultation with African countries. We are working on this in the EU, OECD, UN and World Bank context. In that context, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u270	There is a question from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u271	I actually have a question on both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u272	If that's twice one short question, I'll allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u273	But as the minister regarding the ODA funds...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u274	Then it's about the motion in part No. 37.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u275	Yeah, the motion to part No. 37. If the Minister confirms that the money can't be spent on border surveillance, can she see the motion as a policy support? By definition, the criteria of effectiveness must be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u276	Minister, you have denied the motion. But Mrs Karabulut says: the motion is actually policy support, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u277	Yeah, but it's a lot wider. It also says: "to ensure that criteria of effectiveness are laid down for all forms of cooperation." That's much wider than just border surveillance. We have effectiveness criteria in everything we do. We'll take that with us. We'll report on that. We'll weigh that. Among other things, it is requested to exclude the use of ODA for border surveillance purposes. So there are a number of very large and small themes mixed into one paragraph. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u278	You have not been able to convince the Minister, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u279	I shall come back to that at a later date, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u280	Then a brief question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 38.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u281	Yeah, it's about the motion in part no. 38. Would it help if I modified the second observation? I understand that the Minister could live with the request, but that she thinks the second observation is a little too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u282	There are other elements of the motion: calls on the government to come up with a plan against tax avoidance and a sustainable and inclusive investment plan. This is also happening within the EU framework and then at the EU-Africa Summit. These are many broader issues that are suddenly linked on a theme to a sort of marshall plan for Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u283	That's exactly the problem. Everyone in the EU is working on hundreds of thousands of jars at the same time. We see that things are not going well in the African countries and we should coordinate them. This should lead us to tackle tax avoidance on the one hand with the loss of these resources and, on the other hand, to promote jobs in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u284	Your request is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u285	I don't expect any results, but this is supposed to be the stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u286	As I put it, it is not expressed in the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u287	The motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u288	The motion in part No. Thirty-nine of Mr Alkaya's is again on the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u289	Wait a minute, excuse me. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u290	I have one more unanswered question. That was the question about Shell and the fund Shell was going to pay for Nigeria Ogoniland to finally clean up the polluted country. I asked about this and whether the Minister is prepared to inform us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u291	That's right. That's the question you asked. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u292	And I believe I'd already answered it. I had confirmed my bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u293	Does that mean that we will be informed about the state of play at a later date?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u294	I can inform you if I've had a conversation about what I found and what came out of it. There's also confidentiality of a conversation. This is not a term or reference right now. I've confirmed my commitment to reconnect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u295	Thank you. The Alkaya motion in part No. 39.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u296	The motion in part No. 39 is about the supervisor of the imvo. As Mr Alkaya knows, we have often discussed this. Of course, complaints about violating the OECD guidelines can be made to the national hotline for this. Indeed, more and more complaints are being made. We don't know if it works better or if there's more complaints. Mediation is also taking place. We think it is unnecessary to think about setting up a new external body. The point is that everything is going to work better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u297	This means that you come to the conclusion that motion in part No. 39...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u298	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I'm deceiving the motion. I fully agree with the text of the text of the amendment to item No. 19 by Mrs Karabulut, arguing by the SP that malnutrition is very harmful and actually a violation. The budget for combating malnutrition has already been greatly increased and is covered by the entire food security budget. That's 340 million in 2019. This concerns SDG 2, the eradication of hunger, the development of small-scale food farming and ecological sustainability. It includes a programme against malnutrition of about EUR 50 million. I do not think that a further increase in the budget is necessary at the moment. The use of the budget for trade promotion is not an ODA or an ODA, so I would advise against this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 20 by Mrs Karabulut on the 6 million increase in the contribution to UNRWA. This has actually been done recently in the context of the letter I sent about six country situations and/or organisations. On the basis of the contribution we have just made, including for other situations, I would advise against this amendment. In the first quarter of 2019 we will make our standard assessment of the needs and I will inform the Chamber about this. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u299	Is the Minister prepared to reconsider this request for an increase because of the large aid shortages caused by the withdrawal of the US in the first quarter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u300	We weigh all humanitarian needs by default, as Mrs Karabulut knows. All risk factors are taken into account. We do so at the beginning of the calendar year and at the end of the calendar year. I call that the humanitarian cycle. I do not have a question from Mr Bouali anymore, so I will allow myself to go straight on to Mr Bouali's amendment to item No. 15 on an increase of 2 million in the contribution to the Assistant Expert Programme. It's an important program. It gives young experts from the Netherlands, but also from developing countries, a chance to get to work and gain experience. Especially the people from developing countries often return with more knowledge and experience. We see this amendment as a support for policy, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide. The amendment in part No. 18 by Mr Bouali and Mrs Kuik are in line with the priorities of the memo: to improve the position of women and girls, particularly in the Sahel. Reducing the risk of child marriage also means, of course, less pregnancies, longer time in school for girls and so on. It's a sympathetic amendment, so judge Chamber. I shall now turn to the questions, motions and amendments tabled by Mrs van den Hul of the PvdA. She asks if there can be a toolbox for international corporate social responsibility for the Dutch posts. It is already an important part of the work of the postal network. As I have explained in detail, this is already happening at all different times. I don't think there's any additional work to be done right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u301	We are talking about the amendment to item No. 21. I understand from the answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u302	Mr President, I still see this as an answer to a question, whether there can be an imvo-toolbox for Dutch posts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u303	Excuse me, that was the question. It's a good thing I'm getting rid of that. This was Mrs Van den Hul's question. Mrs Van den Hul, do you have a question on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u304	Yes, because we are getting signals from the field that this is not equally high on the retina at all posts. We also see that there are several developments at the same time. A number of companies are not well informed about this sustainability responsibility and, on the other hand, a shrinking civil society. In this light, we are getting signals that there is a real need for additional reinforcement in posts. Hence the amendment that we are about to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u305	Of course, we do not share this experience from within, but there is a toolbox of economic diplomacy. It can be found on the RVO page. I just don't know if it's externally available. Then I would like to move on to the Van den Hul motion on part No. 40, about the victims of sexual violence. I know exactly what Mrs Van den Hul is naming. I just don't know what it means to take the lead again. There are a lot of calls to the Netherlands to take the lead. I'm talking to Dr. Mukwege. We are going to work on it, but I do not immediately see that we need to lay down in a motion a huge diplomatic political commitment to it. We will do this and within the framework of the special initiative next year, 2019 and before, we will work closely with Dr Mukwege, also on this topic. But we also see it more widely: combating sexual violence against women in crises and other development situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u306	And your judgment...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u307	Has been dissuaded, on this base.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u308	Does the Minister agree that it would be good if the possibility of having, as is the case with victims of torture or trafficking in human beings, a fund where victims can claim recognition and satisfaction were examined? Does the Minister agree with us that it would be good to investigate, through pilots like today in Kosovo, whether it would be desirable in future for victims of sexual violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u309	It is desirable, but that does not mean that the Netherlands should take the lead. Dr. Mukwege launched the initiative. There is a discussion with the UN rapporteur on sexual abuse and violence against women. So there's a whole group working on it. I think we can now wait for the outcome of all the expert discussions. We take note of this with active commitment and interest, but it does not need a motion to confirm this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u310	Mrs Van den Hul's next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u311	The next motion is that in part No. 41. Of course, as Mrs van den Hul and others know, I share the enormous concern about the appalling conditions in which refugees and migrants are in detention centres. It may sound a bit strange, but there is a lot of information available on the major problems faced by refugees and vulnerable migrants, as well as the people from the host communities. We think it's time for action, not more research. We get our data and information from UNHCR and the International Organisation for Migration and others. I think the framework is very clear. The question of mapping the reception camps can be turned off at UNHCR, but I would like to advise against this motion. We are already implementing policies in countries with partner organisations that are also responsible for this. It is not wise to launch separate bilateral investigations. We depend on our international partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u312	We are well aware of this, but it is precisely because we want transparency in a very opaque dossier that we are concerned with. Occasionally something is coming up on the surface about these terrible situations in camps, but we would very much like to clarify where the biggest problems are at the moment. Could the Minister at least share with us the information she receives from UNHCR? Then we can better assess where the major problems arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u313	I understand the request, but 90% of the information we receive from UNHCR is publicly available on UNHCR's website and on the country teams' websites. That is also transparency in information, and I cannot give it any more capacity. It is available and we share what we do on the basis of the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u314	The motion in part No. 42.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u315	The motion in part No. 42. Of course, as you know, I share concerns about reducing the scope for civil society. However, we do not think that new directives are appropriate, because there are directives for the protection of human rights organisations and we have the policy framework of the Roadmap for Civil Society Organisations. As far as we are concerned, new directives do not add anything to this. It's the broad framework; whether it's activists or union experts, it's all about the same agenda of rights. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u316	Freedom of expression is indeed invested in directives, but freedom of peaceful association and assembly is indeed another issue. That is another directive. We are getting signals from civil society, for example from trade unions which, unfortunately, are increasingly under pressure, that they would benefit from this addition. I would very much like to ask the Minister whether she can at least talk to these organisations to see how, from a European perspective, guidelines could contribute to their position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u317	I'm admitting to a conversation, but I'm dissuading the motion. I'm gonna start the conversation on the relation of the guidelines. The motion in part No. 43 I'll leave judgment room. It has been very important and extensively discussed. SheDecides is a very important movement. Then there is Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 21 by Mrs Van den Hul, Mrs Diks and Mr Kuzu. We have just discussed it, even in response to the question. I would advise against this amendment for earlier reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u318	The amendment in part No. 21 is not recommended. Mrs van den Hul also mentioned this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u319	Just one short question, Mr. Chairman. Could the Minister make it clear to what extent the economic attachés are also going to deal with imvo at the posts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u320	I do not think it is appropriate to describe in detail the job profile and the tasks of a diplomat in a post. In any case, this depends on their job description and it depends on the objectives and the multi-annual country trajectory or the trade letter. The trade attaché in Japan has a certain mandate. I don't think it's appropriate to do it this way. I would like to talk about the implementation of the imvo in countries where there are situations. Then we can talk about what we can do differently and faster from the government and from my political responsibility. Mr Voordewind asked whether the Brussels lobby had led to support for the PA rebate. Apparently, we're alone at the moment, but we keep hoping we can get other countries to join us. You have my clear promise. Then the motion to part No. 48 on the same theme. I'll give the motion judgment room. I explained it in detail. The proposal is in line with the cabinet commitment. You have my promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u321	You are referring to the motion in part No. 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u322	That's right. I'll give the motion judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 45 on the choice of the Challenge Fund for Youth Employment. Judgment Room. Mr Voordewind's amendment and Mr Van Haga's amendment to item No. 26 concerns the increase in the budget for the Fund for Combating Child Labour. I understand the initiative. It's very important. We've discussed it and it's coming back in all the frameworks. The Dutch NGOs active in this area have not yet put forward any good proposals, at least not proposals which I can now say are good and can be approved. Right now, I'm not in an administrative process able to add money to the budget. I reject the amendment for these reasons and not for its content. There are no approved proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u323	The amendment in part No. 26 is not recommended. Mr Voordewind would like to ask a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u324	I'll let the Minister know that those plans are in progress. There can't be any plans, because the amendment is only now being tabled. You can't make plans for $7 million. 'Cause there isn't. There were plans for 5 million. If the fund is raised by 2 million, 7 million will be in the pot. I will, of course, give the Minister the opportunity to say: we are going to see what proposals will be made. We're talking about filling the pot to 7 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u325	No, I don't think so. I believe that organisations will submit proposals on the basis of needs, role and capacity, regardless of whether there is money or not. I'm not going to raise a pot and create demand in the market. That's the other way around. There must be good proposals and we must think that it is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u326	One more question, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u327	It is my first question on the motions and amendments, Mr President. Very briefly. Of course, it doesn't work that way. If there's money, there's gonna be proposals. The proposals were already there; so does the Minister. Those proposals will be for the 7 million. Something's been sent in. If the organisations know that this is being adopted, they will, of course, come up with plans for 7 million. There will be no under-utilisation, especially with organisations such as UNICEF, as the Minister knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u328	I'm sticking to my point. If there are any proposals, we're gonna look at them, but I'm not gonna anticipate proposals and raise a fund. Moreover, there is also under-exhaustment. It is difficult to work on these kinds of themes. It's not the same as throwing money away from emergency aid. Then there is the amendment to item No. 27 by Mr Voordewind, Mrs Kuik, Mr Bouali and Mr Van Haga. This is aimed at increasing the Dutch Relief Alliance's budget by 10 million euros a year. This I leave to judge Chamber. It falls within the effective implementation of our response to the needs and situations that arise. Then the Party for Animals. First of all, the motion in part No. 46. We regularly discuss the importance of making palm oil more sustainable. In the Netherlands, the food industry uses 88% sustainable palm oil. We continue to work on this important issue. We also recognise, of course, that deforestation is a major concern, but palm oil is a major concern, so I have been advised, given the different characteristics, not simply replaceable by other types of oil and it is a relatively efficient crop. We are looking at sustainability and not at a drastic reduction in imports of palm oil. We'll do it by working together. So I advise against this motion. For the motion in part No. 47 I refer to my first-term reply on climate and trade agreements. It is, of course, one objective that we want to achieve. I have already said that sometimes it succeeds, but sometimes it is also much more difficult. Maybe that's what makes it more important. I therefore recognise the message that Mrs Ouwehand wishes to leave, but a trade agreement is much wider. In that sense, I advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 48 Ms Ouwehand noted that the Millions Note was not in line with the objective of achieving 1.5oC. The cabinet is committed more than any previous cabinet to a transition to a sustainable economy: the climate agreement, the climate law, the circular economy 2050 and higher budgets Development cooperation. We also encourage other countries. We are doing what can reasonably be expected within the budgetary framework. Having said this and reading the operative part of the motion, I advise against the motion. Mr Stoffer of the SGP has tabled a motion on item No. 49 on combating impunity. I leave this motion with much recognition of the themes of judgment Chamber. We have actually discussed everything about this SDG and the Dutch commitment, also next year. I also recognise the request that every diplomat and every employee sent by the Netherlands is primarily committed to peace and security. The motion in part No. 50. As indicated earlier, we are focusing on the intensification of the coalition agreement. I have no objection to indicate which part of ODA we use as leverage for private investment. I'll leave the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 24 is a motion by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Brenk on sanitary facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u329	Mrs. Van Brenk!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u330	Sorry, Mrs. Van Brenk. I'll leave the motion judgment room. However, I must say that we have already set targets for next year. If we have the result report back to see how we move forward in 2020, the Netherlands can work on it. But the targets for next year have already been set. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 52 and 53. The first motion is clear on the expectations and the desire to use more development cooperation funds, but we are stepping up as much as we are. As I said earlier, a possible follow-up to this cabinet period will be weighed and taken into account in full at the appropriate moments with the national priorities and within the agreed budgetary frameworks. For those reasons, I advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 53 is about return, security and the conditions for the safe return of the Rohingya refugees. I see this as a policy support. We continue to draw attention to all aspects, including the criteria. We will point out that return must be voluntary, dignified and safe, in accordance with international humanitarian law. It's Judgment Room. Mr Kuzu has in the same spirit in part No. 7 tabled an amendment. I will inform you in January about the deployment of the total emergency budget for 2019. The dramatic situation of the Rohingya will of course be dealt with there. It's very important. It's about to become a forgotten group. I shall leave this amendment to point No. 7 Judgment Room. The amendment in part No. 8 I advise. The scope for working in China in the field of human rights is, as you know, very small. We pay attention to the situation in Xianjiang and in particular to the position of the Uighurs. We contribute through the Human Rights Fund to improving the human rights situation in China. These resources are sufficient, but beyond this it seems very difficult to deal with. With regard to the security of project partners, I cannot give further details either. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. These were the questions, motions and amendments, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u331	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u332	This brings us to the end of the debate on the budget for external trade and development cooperation. In fact, we have come to the end of all the budgetary discussions. I would like to thank the Minister and her staff for coming to the Chamber. I would like to thank all the staff of the House of Representatives for supporting us all these weeks in this long sitting. The vote on the budget and the amendments will take place next Thursday. The motions tabled today will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
