ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u1	A very warm welcome to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management. We are going to look at the Implementation of the European Fourth Railway Package Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u2	First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about the amendment of the Railway Act, the Passenger Transport Act 2000 and some other laws relating to the implementation of the European directives. All the songs that come after that, I'll skip, otherwise we'll get lost quickly. Anyone who hears this announcement and regularly uses it will already drop out. 'Cause what does that traveler really want? He just wants to get from A to B as soon as possible, without too much delay. I've been here and there to tell you how the traveler experiences it. I myself am also a fervent train traveler since the year 2010 when I entered the Chamber. In that period I travelled from Assen to The Hague in 2 hours and 17 minutes. Fortunately, the Hanselijn came and everyone was jubilant about the fact that it would all be much faster: it takes me five minutes longer now. Logically perhaps with the number of stops, but really it doesn't go any faster. Take the trip from Vlissingen to The Hague. In 2011 it lasted 2 hours and 39 minutes. In 2018 we are at 3 hours and 3 minutes. There used to be 11 stops and now 22 stops. Was everything better in the old days? We hear that a lot, but I don't think so. In the North of the Netherlands there were plans to eliminate regional rail transport and replace it with bus transport. The effect of outsourcing to other carriers proved to lead to a wider offer, a strong plus of passengers, in short, an improvement in quality. Other provinces have now been followed. The implementation of the European Directive can make it better for the traveller. During a previous cabinet, the current Secretary of State was active as a Member of Parliament and proved to be strongly committed to improvements that were beneficial to travellers. Our group believes that the proposed implementation could have an extra boost. Let's start with the "buying, unless." There is a concession for the main rail network until 2025. It does not apply to regional tracks. From 2020 there can be tendered. Is it "buyers, unless" good in the law? According to the European package, there must be good reasons for granting them directly. There must be a complex network and a direct award must lead to a qualitative improvement in transport. Do we have a complex network? Is that true, or is it because of the way in which it operates? And the quality improvement: is that simple by improving the KPIs, or is there more possible? For the listeners, the KPIs are the critical performance indicators. If I do not say that, I will be struck by the Presidents who want me to clearly reject the abbreviations. She nods, so it's true. How does the Secretary of State view, for example, a pre-contractual phase? I am thinking, for example, of the tender dossier in which such phases are quite normal to determine what is to be obtained in the market. Mr President, I have an amendment in preparation which highlights the role of the Chamber more clearly. The Secretary of State may also expect a motion to support this. Furthermore, our group has explicitly mentioned the role of the ACM in the amendment to safeguard its position in this matter. We'd like to hear how the Secretary of State looks at that. Paragraph 5 requires an independent review by an independent body. As far as I'm concerned, that's the ACM. Then open access. There's something weird going on here. The carrier on the main rail network may use the regional lines from 2020 if the economic equilibrium test so permits. The other way around, that's not the case. I am considering an amendment on this point. Now the State Secretary will come up with the argument that a concession has been granted until 2025 for the main rail network, for which a substantial remuneration is received. For our group, it is important that we create a level playing field across the board. Then come my questions. Does the Secretary of State consider that this observation still constitutes a level playing field? Does the Secretary of State think that if we release parts of the main rail network earlier than 2025 so that regional transporters can continue to drive, for example, think of the Valley line, which goes to Amersfoort; that is where one has to get off and then switch over there will be possible claims? Then there is my final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u4	You're welcome to finish your sentence. Or is it still a whole piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u5	It's a very long sentence, Mr. Chairman. So I'm thinking, "I'm just gonna stop."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u6	I shall begin by giving Mr Laçin the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr Ziengs starts with a sample of selective shopping. He does that very well by mentioning two lines where it takes longer in a few years. For example at Breda-Den Haag it has been ten minutes shorter for a year and a half, to paint the picture that not everything has gotten worse. Then Mr Zieng says that in a region where everything would be eliminated everything is now much better. That's what my question is about. Has he not recently seen, read and not heard the distress signals, the distress calls of drivers and passengers? There are all kinds of signals that the Safety & Service employees do not feel safe. That trains are going down. That travelers don't feel heard. What do these signals do in the story of Mr Ziengs? Are they even playing a role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u8	I, too, have heard several signals. By the way, I often hear these signals from other carriers, so that saves. That gives a balanced picture. The signals referred to by Mr Laçin have also been discussed once in a general consultation we have had with this standing committee. If I look specifically at the signal that came from Limburg through a letter from the drivers: to my knowledge that is resolved by mutual agreement there, so are the signals. I think that was also the content of the letter from the Secretary of State which we received later on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u9	I understand it's been solved, too. Mr Ziengs merely sketches an image that has made everything much better, that at first everything was much shorter and now much longer. In the context of drawing up a balanced picture, I would like to give Mr Ziengs a chance not only to shop selectively, but also to mention the good points in the main rail network, because he does not want to do so. In doing so, he sketches an unbalanced picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u10	I don't think there was a question in that, but a finding. I can find all kinds of things, but well, as a group, we are in a different position. Mr Laçin knows that too, given the input I have made in previous debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u11	I have just heard Mr Ziengs of the VVD about an amendment which offers the Chamber the possibility of steering, if I have understood correctly. How does my colleague in the VVD see it with such a proposal that comes directly from the Brussels drawing board and that actually only ensures that we sell our entire rail system? How does Mr Zieng expect to be able to arrange for an amendment that we will be able to keep control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u12	I don't think it's... I know the feelings at the PVV when it comes to the position of Brussels. Brussels also brings many good things when it comes to trade and the economy. I believe that this proposal offers much more opportunities for other providers and that it can provide much more for the traveller. That is what this is all about, because it is at the heart of the matter. Then there is the question of the amendment. The aim of the amendment is in particular to ensure that you get a certain quality improvement. We see an economic balance test in the directive, but we can also assume that the exception mentioned in the directive is being used. In fact, that exception indicates that you can also contract directly, provided that there is an improvement in quality. That is also specifically mentioned. Then you will have to determine in advance how to visualize that quality improvement. That will be the content of my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u13	The PVV is clear. He wants to be a boss in his own house. In fact, Mr Ziengs has already indicated it himself, or has he actually already noticed that, at the time when you really want to go into private ownership, you have to meet all kinds of Brussels requirements. Does my colleague in the VVD agree that by adopting this proposal we are simply giving everything out of our hands to our Eurocrats in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u14	No, but that'll be obvious, too. My group absolutely does not agree with that. We think, on the contrary, that we are making it more attractive for the traveller and that we can offer better quality. That may indeed be due to the current carrier. It is not that you want to specifically exclude a carrier, but you also want to offer a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr Ziengs just mentioned open access. That's what he was talking about. There are now concessions until 2025. I thought I heard him say, "I want that open access sooner." I think he wants it by 2020. Can Mr Ziengs explain this briefly? What's the rush?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u16	I did not say directly that it must necessarily go back to 2020, but I would find that a very logical consequence. In my contribution, I also indicated that, in relation to the main rail network in relation to the regional rail tracks, we see a situation in which the user of the main rail network could eventually use the regional rail network from 2020 on the basis of the economic equilibrium test. The other way around, that's not the case, because it's blocked until 2025. So I'd like to try to get into space there, so it's going to work the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u17	I will come back to that open access later, but what does that do with the agreements that have already been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u18	It's true that there's an appointment until 2025. My question was also whether the Secretary of State expected a claim. Or is it possible to arrange it in a different way? I've been diving into the midterm review myself once. I will not make it too difficult for the listeners, but Article 27 of the concession is indeed about an evaluation. It will have to take place in 2019. So I see the possibility of giving more space to the regional transport operators in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u19	I have a question about the amendment that is being prepared on these quality requirements. We have, of course, talked a lot about the extent to which we should make certain concessions. My group and, in my view, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have talked about this in the context of social security and working conditions for staff. What kind of quality requirements does Mr Ziengs have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u20	Quality requirements can of course be defined very widely. When you talk about the importance of the traveller, you expect, of course, that the traveller can get from A to B faster if possible, that he is offered a form of transport that he feels comfortable with, and that the person who obtains the concession is able to offer transport for disabled persons and the like, perhaps in an easier way than at present. That's what I qualify as quality. When it comes to social security, etc., there are, of course, all kinds of things that can be included in a tender. We have talked about this more often in general consultations, but it is up to the contracting authority itself to include it in a tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u21	But now Mr Ziegs mentions social security as a category other than ease of travel. However, I can imagine that for most passengers, the extent to which a train is perceived as safe, which often has to do with the question of whether there is a conductor on the train late at night, for example, does indeed contribute to the comfort of passengers. Doesn't social security just belong in that list of quality requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u22	It's possible. I think it is very logical that you should include in a tender that is provided for. However, we often differ on the form of this. Are you gonna fill that out on a trajectory? Or are you going to look from trajectory to trajectory where it is needed and where it may not be; where it needs to be a little more and where it needs to be a little less? Those are things you can build into a concession. You then lay down a certain standard and then send it to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr Ziengs continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u24	Well, well, well. My final point, Mr President. I have already put this into the debate: the separate accounts. It's gonna take and it's gonna take and it's gonna take. I put that in 'incomprehensible', but the Secretary of State will undoubtedly have some reasons for that. In order to obtain correct figures in terms of cost or cost. income is necessary for other revenues from other operations to be administered separately. Then I wonder: is that so difficult? Each company knows how the revenues and expenditure relate in the different product groups. According to this, you have the right speciality at the push of a button. Moreover, we have arranged this for the city transporters. In a previous debate, I received a commitment from the Secretary of State that she would come forward with a letter on monitoring and enforcement before the summer recess, in which she would address the issue of ensuring a level playing field. I may have missed him, but I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she finally thinks she's gonna bail this out. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u25	Thank you. Mr Laçin has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u26	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have listened carefully and I have missed two essential points in Mr Zieng's speech. I'd like to ask a question about that just because I'm curious. Both ProRail and ILT indicate that the Fourth Railway Package reduces their competence, their role, on the one hand, in the admission of new vehicles on the rails and, on the other hand, in the granting of vehicle licences and is actually transferred to Brussels. Now I know Mr Ziengs as someone who always stands up for the ILT, or something else than I do. How does he feel about the fact that ProRail and ILT are actually being sidelined and that we are partly transferring their powers to the European Railway Agency?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u27	When you read the piece and especially the input, you think: gosh, there's a lot going on here. But when you finally peel it off, it seems that ProRail and the ILT still have a good finger in their mouth and that in that respect the soup is not eaten as hot as it is served. But to put it briefly, I believe that this directive at least provides for a role for both ILT and ProRail and is sufficiently secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u28	Just a little sharper, Mr. Chairman. The current legal obligation to hear the administrator prior to the granting of any vehicle licence, in the case of ProRail, will come off. So ProRail is no longer legally required to be heard, but can be enabled. That seems to me to be a very big difference from what it is like now. ProRail is also the only one who builds, maintains and manages our infrastructure. Does Mr Ziengs think it's a small difference or a fairly big difference that we just don't have to use ProRail if we want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u29	Well, it's not that strong. At a time when you are choosing to organise the matter at European level and you are also trying to ensure that vehicles, everything that is allowed on the track, are assessed in a certain way, it is not so strange that you also invest it at European level. That you are indeed assigning an advisory role to ProRail or the ILT agreement, but it is not illogical to organise it in this way, if you are thinking wider and European.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u30	In conclusion, Mr Ziengs is pleased that we are reducing the role of ProRail and the ILT in this and that we are handing it over to Europe. That's what I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u31	I can only conclude that if we want to send on something, we will send on safety and thus on identical safety. It is also secured in Europe, because it would be very strange for a Dutch organisation to say that it can't be done here and somewhere else. I believe that the main issue is safety, with very large capitals, and that is what my group is in favour of. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr. Chairman. I have 15 minutes left on the clock, but maybe I don't need one. As far as we are concerned, the harmonisation of European rail agreements is a good thing. Better safety and easier cross-border traffic, both for the border regions and for connecting our European major cities to make short-distance flying unnecessary. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, a well-tuned European rail network is crucial to achieving our climate objectives. This requires more cooperation and this EU rail package can contribute to this. It is possible, as I say implicitly, because my group still has the necessary questions. A first concern is whether one of the most important recommendations in the Fyra survey has received enough attention in the Dutch translation of the Fourth Track Package. Are the interests of travellers really at the forefront? The Secretary of State writes a passage about international rail traffic: "However, the Fourth Railway Package does not take direct measures for the traveller. It will have to prove in practice what the concrete consequences are for the traveller." I would very much like a response from the Secretary of State to the broad rail package. Do we have enough insight into what the concrete consequences will be for the traveller? I think it's a rather curious sentence. The organisation of rail, how and where safety enforcement and inspections are involved, the price of a ticket, the punctuality of the timetable: these are all issues where the quality of rail transport must be the first priority for the passenger. That brings me to a fundamental point. Public transport, in this case rail, is a public service. Like care, education and security, it is a service for which the government is responsible and which must be accessible to all. Then you can ask the question how we fill in that public service as best we can. In many of the discussions we have, it sometimes seems as if market forces in the railway sector have become an end in themselves and the importance of the people, both travellers and staff, is not the highest priority. That is why I am pleased that the Secretary of State promised a broad evaluation of the procurement in the previous debate. I really look forward to the research set-up, because I think it is very important that we really take a good look at how it works now and also at what goes wrong. As a citizen, you must be able to rely on buses, trams and trains to travel anywhere in the country. You must be able to trust that it will remain affordable for everyone, that it will be safe, that it will grow with demand, that it will be in line with other modalities and that staff will also have normal workers' rights. We must make very careful and detailed agreements on this in a long-term concession for a party that we all consider appropriate. Then it would not be appropriate for a Virgin or a Deutsche Bahn to raise a finger and claim a place to drive their own trains in rush hour between Utrecht and Amsterdam. Of course, that's gonna kill the timetable. The Dutch track is already so full and is used so cleverly, that the whole house of cards would collapse if everyone could pull a card out of it or shove it in. It is our opinion to prevent the main rail network from collapsing, only if it is awarded to one party. Our railroad network is now reasonably balanced. The NS makes money with the thick lines between the big cities and places on the small lines in the province. If a free-market cowboy is then going to steal the dried grapes, the thin lines will disappear or they will have to be maintained with much more government subsidies. The government will then have to pay more because profits made elsewhere in the network will be channelled abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u34	I fully agree with Mrs Kröger that the best possible product should be for the traveller and that we should then check whether a public undertaking or a market company fits in with it. Mrs Kröger also talks about the thin lines in the region and the thick lines on the main rail network. Does she recognise that through regional concessions, and also by giving a number of other parties access to the Dutch rail market, we still have decent rail transport in the region at all? In fact, has it improved significantly in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u35	I think we can see certain improvements in certain contexts, but we really need that evaluation to see how it has worked out in broad terms. My point is that, if you let parties shop in the main rail network, who undermine the whole model on which it is now based. And then we risk losing something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u36	I think it's good to break up regional concessions and the main rail network concession. I think we agree that on regional lines, where we used to have a train per hour, regional carriers sometimes have four trains per hour. These are new trains with thousands of passengers who have joined each day. In fact, Mrs Kröger's criticism focuses specifically on the main rail network. She's gonna say, "Pick out a line." Does Mrs Kröger recognise that the threat of increased competition has also kept the NS sharper in recent years and that the NS has just started offering a better product on a number of lines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u37	That's what I'm really wondering. I think that's exactly what we really need to look critically at: how it worked and what it did that threat is there. You have a main rail network that works well. You can monitor that in different ways and be stronger as a government. A kind of model of three strikes and you're out or the sword of Damocles dangling above it has now been chosen. You can also say that you keep more supervision and control, without having to have that threat right away that they lose the concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u38	In my speech, I raised the difference in playing field when it comes to the main rail network and the regional lines, where it concerns the period we actually intend to go on to tender, unless. Does Mrs Kröger agree with me that it is very special, if you choose the interests of the traveller, that... Take the Valley line, for example. It ends at the main rail network, when in fact, perhaps with a slight adjustment, you can let that region train continue, so that that passenger doesn't have to change and therefore doesn't have to go through all that misery. Does Mrs Kröger agree with me that this will give you a more balanced whole on the railways?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u39	As far as I am concerned, the main rail network is functioning well in its entirety at the moment. I see the huge risk you're gonna get at the moment you're gonna pull things out of there. If you start picking pieces out, other pieces become less profitable. I understand Mr Zieng's point that you are trying to find maximum connection, but that is also an argument to ask whether that connection is not also in better agreements between regional carriers and the main rail network. So I do not see the solution chosen by Mr Ziengs entirely as the solution direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u40	I'll taste a coat rack over there. I think there's a bit of the sting I was trying to describe here. I hope it's taken out by the Secretary of State. On the main rail network, these opportunities are currently not offered by the region to regional transport operators. That seems to be a very difficult exercise, while there is the impression that there is space on the main rail network. Should research show that this space exists, does Mrs Kröger agree with me that those regional carriers should be able to provide this connection, even from 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u41	The connection to the main rail?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u42	Yeah, so the drive-through is indeed...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u43	Yeah, I'm gonna ask you a few questions, because I think there's a risk that if we cut that main rail network on all sides, it's not gonna deliver the sustainable product we need. So I would like to be extremely careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u44	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u45	The Netherlands has been working to keep a grip on our track. We are therefore pleased that the option remains to grant the main rail network as a single concession in specific circumstances. That, I think, is an important part of the Fourth Railway Package. As mentioned earlier, just in the interrupting debate, we have, as far as we are concerned, well-functioning national railways in the Netherlands. Why should we give our main rail network away to the German or French railways? How does this serve the interests of the traveller? This debate may not be so much for tonight as it is for the next year and a half, but there is one which we must be very careful about over the next year and which, as far as I am concerned, includes a great deal of underlying research into the real functioning of the procurement process, including the points that have just been made: the importance of travellers first and truly ensuring social conditions in the procurement process. GroenLinks wants the national government, in consultation with all regions, to keep a firm lead on the quality of service, the quality and coverage of the timetable, volume and frequency, comfort and safety. You can't do that in a market full of cowboys. This can only be achieved through a robust procurement procedure with strong, social and sustainability criteria. We have previously had a debate about undermining working conditions by awarding a concession on price and cutting working conditions or on social security. How do we ensure with this law that working conditions do not get any worse? A firm implementation of those public service contracts is a prerequisite. So I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State how we're gonna handle this. How do we prevent Brussels from rejecting our implementation and delivering the track to the market? How do we prevent the fragmentation of our tracks, the absence of central control and coherent timetables, and the absence of anyone responsible for all of this? How can we prevent the role of rail in the mobility mix and in the needs of passengers from being more fulfilled by the public authorities? I come now to a number of specific points which I do not think are sufficiently regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u46	Before Mrs Kröger goes to the next block, I would like to ask another question. We were just talking about the thin and thick lines on the main rail network and the importance of the traveller to get the best possible product on all those lines. Does Mrs Kröger think that we in the Chamber now have sufficient insight into what the thick and the thin lines are and where there are opportunities for improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u47	I can very well imagine that, as a Chamber, we want to have even more insight into this in the run-up to the further discussion on the plans for the future of the railways. But we are talking about the hoofrailnet and we are talking about regional lines. Within the main rail network there are also thick and thin lines. That's the point, of course. An intercity between Amsterdam and Utrecht is clearly a thick line. So if you implement the logic of the Fourth Track Package fairly strictly, you get cherrypicking where that main rail network can be undermined. I'd like to be very careful about that. A second question is indeed how to ensure in regional rail transport that you really put the passenger first, but also how to avoid contracting and competing on terms of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u48	I agree with Mrs Kröger that we must prevent parties from pulling only the most profitable pieces out of the rail network. We want good rail transport everywhere in the Netherlands. However, regardless of whether we allow contracting and market players to do so or whether we grant it directly to one party: in both cases we need to have a clear view of where the profitable and less profitable lines are, if we are to be able to steer those social priorities that Mrs Kröger herself mentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u49	I thought I'd hit the coherent timetable. If a timetable is crafted together, the connections at the switch from train to bus may be abominable. Especially with the regional carriers, we often see that it is perfectly compatible, because they take full care of the timetable from A to B. Does Mrs Kröger agree with me that this aspect can also be taken into account in the coherent timetable for completing the timetable, in order to ensure that at least those connections are good, as we have sometimes shared with each other in the context of total mobility in debates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u50	I take Mr Ziengs' question as follows. The point I want to make is that, as far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State is ultimately responsible for public transport in the Netherlands and for the public role played by public transport there. This means that it must be easily accessible, affordable and really be an alternative to cars, for example, in order to achieve the climate objective. For this, a coherent timetable is crucial, and as a government you have to keep a grip on it. When the whole thing is decentralised, tendered and fragmented, you have no control over it. That is why I think it is very important to keep the main rail network compact and complete on the one hand, and on the other hand to ensure that it really improves for the traveller in regional transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u51	But the crazy thing is that in recent years I have found that it is precisely by contracting that the connections with the bus, for example, have been well established and that this is still not the case on the main rail network. That's my point, too. Isn't there a task at the time, regardless of the assumption that it will be fairly good for all those parties at the moment if the Secretary of State takes care of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u52	Well, I think the question of whether the main rail network should be better connected to different bus services is another issue. It seems to me to be a very important issue to take along. The question, in my view, was whether certain lines were not at some point, at the moment when you decentralise and you get transport regions where there is also a very heavy price squeeze. We have now defined Mobility as a Service as a kind of solution direction with each other, but of that it really is the question whether that remains accessible and available to everyone. Good. There are a number of concrete points on the legislative proposal before us. The ERA is given the role of inspecting all the equipment, and we have asked questions about this before. After a transitional period, we understand, they are the only authority for this. I really have my doubts about this. We like to see an extra key by ProRail, or at least that ProRail's role is well secured. They really know what can and cannot be done on the Dutch track. The Fyra survey gives us an example of what could go wrong with a new kind of train, and we have paid expensive tuition fees for that. So we would also like to keep the option that ProRail can reject a train approved by the ERA, and that ProRail will be able to reject a train that is safe, but is still too poor to integrate into a reliable timetable. So, as far as we're concerned, it goes beyond just that security check. The question then is: what requirements could ProRail make? What role do they have in this process? On what criteria could this be possible, and on what legal basis? Is it not important that both the ERA and an authority designated by the Minister approve these rail vehicles? At the moment there is the word 'or' in Article 26k and my question is whether that should not be the word 'and'. Here I am considering an amendment of two letters. Which brings me to the ILT. The Fyra survey talked a lot about the role of the ILT. I do not want to repeat this extensively, but I do not feel that we are applying the lessons properly at the moment. The survey showed, among other things, that the culture of stamping half-read reports led to major problems. A hands-on control of physical equipment was needed: long trial periods in practical conditions and a critical attitude of all authorities. And that seems to us all to be turning over to a European body that is still farther away from the Dutch track. I am concerned about the new role of the ILT, and I am also concerned about the capacity to do so. The human force is missing at the moment, I think. In addition, the ILT's working method has just been turned into a risk-controlled control system. This is a very different way of working from what the Ministry intends to do for the implementation of this new directive. So we really have to do everything we can to make sure that the ILT is ready for its task. Of course you can, but the question is: is it going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u53	I share many of Mrs Kröger's concerns about the ILT and about a less important role for ProRail, but I also see opportunities for a stronger European body. We are both in favour of more international train traffic: trains coming in several countries. Then I think it is important, also for security, to organise these tasks more effectively at European level. Does Mrs Kröger agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u54	Sure. That is why I am also considering an amendment from the word 'or' to the word 'and', whereby you have both a European authority that tests security, and a Dutch authority that still remains responsible. My concern is that we are too far away, that an agency is too far away from the reality of the Dutch track. So I wonder how the Secretary of State intends to deal with this, because that is one of the great lessons of the Fyra survey. Finally. What will be the role of the Ministry in relation to ILT and ERA, for example in the deployment of ERTMS? If the Ministry, the clients of ProRail and the NS and other operators, performers and our neighbouring countries and the review bodies are involved, who will have the last word if choices really have to be made? ERTMS is a major project, and I believe that several groups are concerned about how it is currently being rolled out and about the considerable delay that has been taking place. There is, after all, concern in my group about this changing structure with a much greater role for ERA. What are the consequences for the deployment of ERTMS? Could the Secretary of State, together with, for example, the sector and ProRail, make a risk assessment of this? And how can we mitigate those risks properly, so we don't get mugged again later? Finally. There has already been an exchange of views on the main rail network and the regional lines and also on the importance of the traveller. I really hope that, in this debate and in other debates that follow on public transport, we will continue to recognise that public transport is a public service, in which the interests of the traveller prevail, and that this law will also enter into force in this way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ziengs triggered me when he started talking about improvements and figures. And then I thought, "I'm gonna do an exercise." Apparently the first train connection we had in the Netherlands is almost 179 years old. That was the railway line with a steam train from Amsterdam to Haarlem. It took him 25 minutes at the time. I was just looking at the app very quickly, because in that we did make jumps. Today, it takes him eight minutes shorter: an average of 17 minutes. If I have a fetish for numbers, it means 2.6 seconds a year better. That does not stop me from trying even more today to improve train connections in the Netherlands and in Europe. We're just gonna be very excited. I hope that the whole Chamber has that energy and that we can improve more seconds a year. In the meantime, of course, there are also many improvements. Take the last improvement, the ten-minute train. It really is an asset if you can go from Eindhoven to Schiphol every ten minutes. The madness is parked: we are here today because of the European Fourth Railway Package. The aim is, on the one hand, to remove barriers in the European rail system through different technical standards relating to equipment and safety, the technical pillar. On the other hand, there is the market pillar, which opens the internal market for domestic rail passenger services in the European Member States. Mr. Chairman. Before going into the substance of the law, I have one central question: what is the view of the Secretary of State on the future of rail in the Netherlands, internal and cross-border in the European context? In other words, what is actually the state of play regarding the analysis of the scenarios that would be developed, as promised in the debate on the Fyra report of 2015? One of the main recommendations is on "decision-making cabinet on railway establishment." Articles 2 and 3 are explicitly about this. Can we expect it this year? And where does the rules of Europe, which we are about to implement, fit into that vision of the Secretary of State? Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to focus on two important aspects of this legislative amendment. The first is the relationship between the principle of "procurement, unless" for the concession of the main rail network and railway lines and the commitment of the Netherlands to maintaining the freedom of choice between direct and public procurement. The second is the principle of open access. That's just what we've been talking about. In doing so, railway undertakings may apply for a route they wish to operate, even if they are not the concessionaire for that route. The main rule in the EU Directive is "contractors, unless." For us, the question is whether the legislative proposal is expected to adopt that principle sufficiently, seen from Europe. Can the Secretary of State make it clear what the main rule is, i.e. the starting point in this bill, the direct award or the call for tenders? Mr. Chairman. At all times, the traveller must be at the centre. The quality of rail passenger transport must be continuously improved, and I stress "continuously' if it is to be and will continue to be a good alternative for the car and in the future for short-distance flights in Europe. Price, travel time, comfort and reliability are important criteria. How does the Secretary of State intend to ensure this, both in the case of a tender and in the case of a direct award? What room is there to test against the groundbreaking achievements within this law? Is it true, for example, that only a comparison should be made between current benefits and those after direct award? However, an improvement over the current main rail network performance is, in our view, always feasible, simply because the current concession does not impose such stringent requirements that maximum performance is achieved. How does the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u57	I heard Mr Amhaouch say that the ten-minute train between Eindhoven and Amsterdam is an asset, that it is a good thing there is. That is what we believe, and above all we must continue to do so. On the one hand. On the other hand, we heard ProRail say a few weeks ago that our trail is already full. I wonder how we are going to keep that ten-minute train when we have an open track and other carriers, who have not won a concession, for example, are going to mingle in that route. How are we gonna keep that ten-minute train with a full track? How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u58	If Mr Laçin still has a moment, I shall come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u59	I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u60	I'll be right back. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second demand for private purchasing. This is the complexity of the network. Firstly, the legislative proposal does not guarantee that lines that are less complex or not complex and are therefore eligible for tendering will not be included in the slipstream of the more complex lines. In other words, you can indeed make a simple line very complex. After all, there are many regional lines that are currently part of the main rail network, but are not so intertwined that they cannot be tendered separately. What is the Secretary of State's view on this? We know that the Secretary of State points to the complexity of the network, while advocates of more market forces point to the contrary. An effective assessment of the complexity of the network requires an independent assessment. That could be the ACM, but the ACM is not given an advisory right in the decision-making process for direct award. Can the Secretary of State explain this again? How does she see this in practice? By the way, we read that the ACM will look at material issues in the economic equilibrium test carried out by new entrants. Our question is whether we are looking at the more intangible things, such as the integrated timetable, the high-frequency rail................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As far as we are concerned, we need to look at this, because that is the direct interest of the same traveller. Mr. Chairman. There is another question about the role of the ACM. Does the Minister consider that the ACM should be given a greater role, for example, in the appeal procedure against decisions taken under this law? The ACM sees a possible role for itself in this. Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mr Laçin has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u62	In addition to my question just now. I have the answer now, but that is not quite clear to me. The CDA Group is asking the Secretary of State to look into that. What is more important to the CDA Group? That we keep that quality and quantity above all, or that we go for more market forces? What's the target?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u63	In my view, what Mr Laçin is presenting to me is not a choice: whether more market forces or quality. It now seems as if market forces would not contribute to a certain quality. For us, the traveler is at the forefront. If that is what you mean, we attach great importance to maintaining high-frequency lines, an integrated approach and not all of them being fragmented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u64	Does Mr Amhaouch agree with me that it will not be helpful if other carriers stop the ten-minute train?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u65	If you worry too much, it could be a consequence. The question is, do you want to? But again, this isn't about whether it's a market player or an NS party. The CDA is also open and honest. We believe that the main rail network is actually a primary task of the NS. That's how we see it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u66	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u67	We still have the regional transport operators and the other partners with a lot of good lines have also been discussed in the provinces. We have seven provinces bordering Belgium and Germany that regulate very good transport. We've talked about that a lot. So we do not participate when you say it is one or the other. But if you say that the passenger is central and that we need an integrated timetable, within which the ten-minute train must remain, then we are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u68	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come to the cup or no, the cube "I need to get in there for a moment about the open access or the open access regime." Is it not the case that the bill makes the playing field between NS and the other carriers unequal when the NS does not have to allow other carriers to operate on the main rail network, but can itself operate on regional lines on the basis of open access? Is that true? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that travelers, especially in the regions, should also be at the centre of attention here? How is the trade-off made to allow it or not? The CDA is not in favour of shredding the main rail network. We know that the Secretary of State is afraid of cherry picking and let's face it, that fear may well be justified. How do we manage not to do cherry picking and take advantage of the benefits of procurement? How are we going to deal with the new law that prevents fragmentation? Mr. Chairman. We have noticed that the law has little veil. What is the argument? Why does the Secretary of State not want to take the view of the Chamber into account in its decisions? Does the Secretary of State still want to put that in the Chamber? The CDA would like to see how neighbouring countries are doing. Do they implement European rules in the same way in word and deed? We do not want to see the situation in which neighbouring countries can compete on track, while the NS cannot do so in France or Belgium, for example. The question also arises as to what happens if countries do not implement in the same way. Then who's performing? Who's correcting that? We see how difficult the connection to England has been so far, because ultimately everyone is primarily focused on self-interest. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. In the Netherlands we already have the situation that French and German subsidiaries in particular compete on the edges of our tracks. The CDA looks at that nuancedly. In the sparsely populated regions, they have shown that they have added value. Rail accessibility has improved considerably thanks to these companies. Congratulations on this. The NS does the same through Abellio in Germany and England. Given the turnover they get there, they're doing a good job. This also provides new knowledge and skills, which the NS can use in the Netherlands. But the Netherlands also needs a strong home carrier, a strong player who has the Netherlands as a home base. The NS is that home carrier for us and as such is extremely important and crucial for rail transport in the broadest sense of the word in our country. We have a great deal of appreciation for the NS and the employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr Van Aalst has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u71	I hear my colleague from the CDA in his last sentences some shouting about the investments abroad of, for example, NS. He loves all that and it's all going so well. But a number of colleagues have already noted that we would like to see a little more of this cross-subsidisation and openness of the books. I do not think we have any idea how the result per branch is accounted for. Does the CDA agree with us that this should actually be seen much more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u72	First of all, I think they do well abroad. A third of the turnover of the NS is obtained abroad, mainly in the United Kingdom and a bit in Germany. What exactly is in the books, I'm afraid to say. Of course you can look at that, but I also have no idea of the books of the DB, the German railway company, the French and the Belgians. I do not know what Mr Van Aalst is trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u73	When I hear my colleague from the CDA shouting that they are investing so well abroad, when we can't find it in the books, I wonder how he got his grades that it's all going so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u74	If you read the annual report of the NS, you will see that about a third of the turnover comes from abroad. It specifies exactly what they achieve in England, Germany and the Netherlands. That's just public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u75	We just need to have openness about this kind of investment. We give NS a number of advantages on the Dutch network. Do we think they should invest our tax money abroad as a monopolist in the Netherlands? Are you sure that's wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u76	I have just said that it is a European playing field. Arriva is a subsidiary of the Deutsche Bundesbahn. They come here to Holland. We do so in the same way in Germany and the United Kingdom. That brings in money and knowledge. I think you come home from a cold carnival if you hide behind the dikes and only in the Netherlands, on a small stamp, want to develop everything. I think you can learn a lot from what's happening in England and Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you. I call Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Recently, the European Court of Auditors published a report on the use of the HSL budget. Turns out what? Since the year 2000, about half of Spain has gone to EUR 11 billion. Spain is now the number two in the world with 3500 kilometers hsl. You'd expect the Spaniards to use that gratefully, but nothing is less true. Many of these state-of-the-art trains are empty. One in four Spanish HSL stations has less than 150 passengers per day. By comparison, our Groningen station has ten times as many entry and exiters every day in the well-known Haren. How could the Spanish have been so wrong in building these lines? The European Court of Auditors gives us the answer by noticing that the Spaniards did not make a social cost-benefit analysis in advance. This means that the Dutch taxpayer has contributed heavily to the empty HSL trains in Spain. All this is, in itself, a serious scandal; the Spaniards lied to the European Commission when they applied for funding. But even worse is the silence of the Commission. No one seems to care, no one calls for Spain to act consciously and return the money as soon as possible. No one in the Commission cares because it is not their own money. Their money is credited monthly in the form of a fat salary with generous secondary conditions of employment. The EUR 11 billion lost is from the citizens of the net paying Member States. We brought them in together. When money is spent on nonsensical projects, nobody in Brussels crows at it. The same European Commission, which makes no effort whatsoever to get this investment back from Spain, is now presenting a new proposal: the Fourth Railway Package. This is yet another step by the Eurocrats to attract all licensing and create a single railway area. The PVV is already pulling the alarm bell. When this package arrives, the Netherlands is the only one who follows the rules neatly and will do everything on sale. Road national carrier, road public service contracts, road train permits. The other Member States will laugh at us. They are already neglecting European Union rules and are getting away with it. Protectionism is the order of the day. No sensible country lets itself eat the cheese of the bread except the good Netherlands of Rutte III. The day has yet to come when the European Commission consistently applies its own rules. We see it now happening again with Spain. Yet we pretend that the EU rules are sacred. It's crazy. People at home are done. Mr. Chairman. The question is whether this package has nothing to do with it. Fortunately, there are a number of leads to improve the rail system in the Netherlands. The PVV welcomes the fact that the Dutch commitment in this proposal will make it possible to award it directly, provided that the European Commission agrees with our reasoning. It will be wrong if the Dutch Railways lose our main rail network in 2025 with our motivation. It will be wrong if the Dutch Railways lose our main rail network to a foreign carrier in 2025. This will make our main rail network a sub-interest of a multinational that can make strategic considerations that are beneficial on a European scale but detrimental to the Netherlands. Nevertheless, it remains absurd that the Netherlands should answer to a whimsical bureaucrat in Brussels. There is a real chance that our motivations will be rejected and that we will be denied the right to vote. Can the Secretary of State rule out this happening? If not, can she explain what follow-up steps will be left of us if we are faced with a no? How does she assess the chances of success of these follow-up steps? The Commission intends to require Member States to designate an independent body to assess the decision on direct award. Can the Secretary of State indicate which body she has chosen and why? This railway package calls for an institutional separation between the infrastructure manager and any railway undertaking. The PVV sees the ACM and not the Ministry as the appropriate candidate to supervise the management concession of ProRail. The ACM already supervises the infrastructure manager for the independence, impartiality and maintenance planning, the outsourcing of tasks and activities and financial transparency. Is the Secretary of State prepared to allow the ACM to exercise independent, politically neutral oversight of ProRail and, if not, why not? In addition, the PVV finally wants to clarify the possibilities for cross-subsidisation. If we all want to work seriously on a level playing field, we must also dare to demand that carriers operating in several markets keep separate accounts. It cannot be the case that profits obtained abroad are used to register extra low on a Dutch tender. Nor do we want future profits at, for example, station shops to be used in advance to win a concession. Is the Secretary of State prepared to require carriers to produce separate accounts when they tender and, if not, why not? Does it not recognise that there is no level playing field yet? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the PVV is curious which stick we keep behind the door, should the operator of the main rail network fail to put the traveller first. If it is based on key indicators under acceptable values, the desire to look for a new operator for specific lines may arise. What scope does the Secretary of State see to keep pressure on the monopolist by purchasing branches separately over the duration of the main rail network concession? How is it helped or hampered by this railway package? And in the event that there are no such contractual possibilities, would it then wish them and, if not, why not? Mr. Chairman. The traveler must stand on one. In order to ensure this, we must remain on our own track instead of implementing the demands of the urophils in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u79	I think it is in line with Mr Van Aalst's concluding remarks. I also asked this question to Mr Ziengs of the VVD. How does the PVV Group see the transfer of the role of ProRail and ILT to Europe? I know that the PVV also attaches importance to national competence and wants to protect and preserve it in particular. Does the PVV Group think that is okay or should we oppose it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u80	We certainly have to resist that. I think we as PVV have also regularly asked for extra money for the ILT, because we have found that there is quite a bit of a problem with our ILT. But we certainly need to keep that in our own hands and certainly not give it away to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u81	Then my contribution to Mr Van Aalst will sound like music to the ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u82	I don't often agree with my colleague, but we're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u83	I call Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good rail transport is essential for the Netherlands. More than 1 million people travel by train every day. Because these people catch the train, the Netherlands remains somewhat in motion. When we look at the National Market and Capacity Analysis, we also need a well-functioning track for the future, because only then will we keep the Netherlands, and therefore our economy, running. To ensure that the Netherlands continues to move, we make choices and agreements with each other here in Parliament. One Member of Parliament starts on the railways a little more often than the other Member of Parliament, but this is where we get to the bottom of things, because we know with our carriers and the sector what works best in the Netherlands. Because our rail network is hugely extensive, busy and interdependent, we are also having the discussion about whether or not to have market forces on the railways. And you will not be surprised, Mr President, but we are not in favour of this market operation. Mr. Chairman. The SP therefore considers it too ridiculous for words that Europe should interfere with such internal affairs. The neoliberal singing of praise for market forces is being pushed down the throats of Brussels in this way and we are absolutely not served by it. As far as we are concerned, the lie that market forces would only improve public transport has long gone out of date. Lines are deleted. Security is being cut back. Travellers should check in and out more often. And staff is the closing point of the budget. But that sense of reality has not yet penetrated the European ivory towers. There, market forces are still a sacred goal that must be achieved at all costs. It's "buyed, unless" and that's what we find bizarre. Fortunately, the Netherlands has managed to lay down an exception position and contracts may still be awarded directly in the future. But the SP still has a few questions to the Secretary of State about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr Ziengs has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mr Laçin just described that getting in and out of the car every time was perceived as very annoying by the passengers. I indicated in my speech that it would be nice if passengers could continue to travel on the regional lines in particular. Then they don't have to get in and out every time. Let me take a look at Mr Laçin. Perhaps he sees it as a solution to release the main rail system at least at times when the regional lines need to continue, provided that there is room for it. That is my question to Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u87	I will serve Mr Ziengs at his beck and call. I have another solution. If we do everything at the NS, the travelers don't have to check in and out. Then they can just move on. Then we have a completely different solution, with a better means of transport and better comfort for the traveller. Then they don't have to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u88	A fantastic solution from Mr Laçin. We've been there in the North of the Netherlands. There we were all allowed in buses if it had been on the NS. Fortunately, there are now regional carriers, as in other provinces. I therefore believe that this solution is not the solution that we, as a VVD, choose. But that may be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u89	I would like to respond briefly to that. We have also exchanged this in previous debates. It is good that these regional carriers have been working there, but to say that the NS could not do better now, I think it is too short. In the past, choices have been made by the NS, but the NS hasn't indicated for nothing that they want to join again. I am pleased with that, I must say, because it is precisely in this way that a better timetable can be arranged for the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u90	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u91	I will, Mr. Chairman. For example, one of the conditions is that such a direct award should lead to improvements in quality and/or improve cost-effectiveness compared to the contract previously awarded. Now, constantly striving for improvement is very good, but at some point we come across borders. For example, the NS is now working on courses to teach train drivers to pull up and slow down with leaves on the track, and has developed a variety of techniques and maintenance programs to prevent delays in autumn. It is very good that they are working on improvements for the traveller, but there will always be situations where rail users and managers have no control, causing trains to slow down or fail. So a hundred percent punctuality doesn't exist. Then how does this demand relate to practice, I ask the Secretary of State. How is this requirement for stricter conditions of direct award not to be used as a weapon for more spending? Even if we look at other developments on the track, cutting up the main rail network will have a negative effect. This was also the subject of the debate with Mr Amhaouch. High-frequency rail transport, where there is a train every ten minutes, or a good alignment between different lines, is called into question when several carriers suddenly start to travel on the same track or on adjacent areas. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Another aspect on which carriers have no influence is the way rail infrastructure has been constructed. The most striking example of this is the hsl. The NS has screwed up in this file and is right to have the thumb screws tightened firmly. This has improved the situation. The performance of the NS on the hsl is improving every year. However, due to insufficient knowledge of the construction, many improvements are needed on this line in order to obtain the level of service at the level of the rest of the main rail network. There is nothing the carrier can do about that; the government will have to do something about it. As we have read, the Secretary of State does not intend to do so in the coming period. This may therefore mean that the performance will be delayed and that the new direct award, with the requirements of this railway package, will be at stake, not because of the failure of the carrier or manager but because of the absence of the government. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that if the government refuses to adjust and invest in improving infrastructure, this will not lead to problems with, for example, a direct award? Then, chairman, restricting the roles of ProRail and the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr Amhaouch has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr Laçin is moving very fast. I'm just trying to get into the story. Suppose you would now think that the NS as a monopolist can do anything in the Netherlands. What about the quality? So it's in the NS. You say: it cannot always achieve all the performance, all the performance. Then you look at the government. If you would grant that to NS, how do you see them constantly improving year after year, even if they are monopolist, in theoretical thinking? How do you keep them sharp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u94	That's what KPIs are for. We're using it now for the NS. With this we see that the NS renews and improves, that customer satisfaction increases, that the chance of a seat increases, that punctuality increases. In that sense, Mr Amhaouch will not be surprised if his market forces and more competition in our opinion are not the only means, or not the means, to enforce better performance. This can also be done by making critical demands and demanding more performance. We're already doing that for the NS. The example of the hsl I mentioned consciously, because the government there has failed in our eyes. The government must also dare to invest and adjust if we are to be able to pay the NS for the performance they deliver on that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u95	I didn't talk about market forces at all. I'm just asking about the NS, as a theoretical example. You call the KPIs. Of course, we can all come up with KPIs. At the time you've gotten a concession that often lasts ten to fifteen years How do you keep a carrier continuously sharp, separate from the KPIs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u96	By demanding innovation and by demanding innovation. That's what we're doing with the NS now, isn't it? On the main rail network we also demand better performance from the NS, although they have a contract until 2025? I do not see much difference from a monopolist. Together we keep them sharp, which we force for improvements, for innovation and for better performance for the customer. We can keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u97	And if they don't achieve that performance, what's the upside?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u98	Then it seems good to me to see together how they can be achieved. If that year does not happen every year, then of course we must draw consequences. I see in practice that the NS has been improving in recent years. That is why I made the point that the improvement also has a limit. One hundred percent punctuality, for example, does not exist. If you take that into account in the trade-offs, I think we can force the NS to improve more and thus maintain and expand what we already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u99	Excuse me, chairman, one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u100	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u101	What do you think the consequences you're talking about could be? What could be the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u102	Let's say theoretically that things are going so badly that we think someone else could do better. Then we can look for that. But to say in advance that cutting up the main rail network, as the Fourth Railway Package ultimately aims to do, would lead to better performance by the NS, as far as the SP is concerned, is really the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u103	About the hsl. I think the NS has deliberately chosen to exploit the hsl. It was a company that said it wanted to do this. I believe that the Secretary of State has allocated EUR 60 million to improve infrastructure. I hope that Mr Laçin will acknowledge that the government is indeed taking responsibility for improving the infrastructure for the HSL. Does Mr Laçin agree with me that if a company chooses to operate a particular line itself, then the company should be on the blister if it cannot deliver that performance for the traveller?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u104	Yes. That's why I said in my input that the NS itself is guilty of it. She herself has made mistakes and has been trying to improve them for years. We'll see that together. Improve the performance of the NS on the hsl. But these improvements to the NS have a limit, because the infrastructure, which is not built by the NS, also has shortcomings. That's why I'm looking at the Secretary of State. Extra money has been spent, but we've been looking away for years. The SP has been calling for years to change. That is why the 60 million is not enough for us, and we must look together with the carrier to see how it can do even better, so that performance can be levelled with the main rail network.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u105	You weren't at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u106	No, definitely not. Now I come to the part that Mr Van Aalst will like: ProRail and ILT and limiting the roles of these two organisations compared to what they are doing now. As a railway manager, ProRail now has an advisory function on the admission of new vehicles to the track. That part makes sense. ProRail is the party that does construction, maintenance and replacement of the rail and therefore knows what can and cannot be done on our rail network. Why the hell are we taking that gatekeeper function away from ProRail? Although ProRail can still be asked for advice, the current legal obligation has been removed and carriers themselves can demonstrate that the vehicles they are going to use can be allowed on the track. This is contrary to the advice of the Fyra Parliamentary Survey that ProRail should be involved because of the interaction between the train and the track. Then the ILT. Our inspection has many comments on the role it will be given if this Fourth Railway Package enters into force, and rightly so. The ILT loses its independent role as a provider of safety certificates and vehicle licences. The assessment comes at a distance, namely from carriers, who themselves have to indicate that their vehicles are connected to our network, and the European Railway Agency, which has to assess this. This is also contrary to the cabinet response to the Fyra Parliamentary Survey and the risk-based approach adopted by the ILT. In her reply, the Secretary of State mainly makes a personal calculation of this: here a little less fte, there a little bit and then we are there. But it does not deal with the fact that we transfer inspection parts and thus another part of our national powers to Brussels. Can the Secretary of State comment explicitly on why this is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u107	I agree with Mr Laçin that we should also play a good role for ProRail and ILT, but I am less negative about the European Railway Agency. There is no national producer where we buy trains or where we buy rail security systems. That's all international, all European. Does Mr Laçin recognise that in such an international market it is very good to have a good supervisor at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u108	I do not think that is the case now. We do not produce a lot of trains here and we still do. If you compare it with each other, not much is going to change, but we are going to change the role of the ILT tremendously. I am not against the European Railway Agency. What I am opposed to is that we are going to transfer our national powers that we have now invested in the ILT. I think Mrs Kröger said that. And-and as far as I'm concerned, it's fine. Then we have a double check. But I do have a problem with us getting it out of here and putting it in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u109	Rounding up. I am also pleased to hear one positive point about European cooperation in Mr Laçin's contribution. Let's look together to see how we can ensure that we get it right at national and international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u110	Then I have a one-after-last cup; I'm going through it quickly. I would also like to talk about all the different roles that the Authority Consumer & Market, the ACM, has already mentioned, is going to fulfil in the near future. Already in the past, in February this year, the SP expressed its concerns about the thin dividing line between the ACM's supervisory role on the one hand and its advisory role on the other. With the ambitions that the ACM has expressed in connection with the Fourth Railway Package, this risk of mixing is only increased as far as we are concerned. At the moment, before a new party can join on the Dutch track, the ACM is already carrying out an economic equilibrium test. But she has stated that she would also like to have an advisory role when there is a direct award of the main rail network. In response to questions from the Chamber, the Secretary of State indicated that he did not see this happening. As far as the SP is concerned, it is clear that we cannot have the ACM becoming the butcher who approves its own meat, taking an independent test in advance and then giving an opinion on the granting of a concession and then looking at whether the concession is being properly carried out. Can the Secretary of State comment specifically on this and confirm that all these different roles do not go hand in hand? Then I come to my conclusion, Mr President. The SP believes that we are dealing here with a very bad proposal from Brussels. The starting point is that our rail transport needs to be tendered, unless. Our railway manager ProRail is sidetracked and loses a very important role that guarantees good rail. The ILT should transfer powers to the European Railway Agency and be further stripped. In some cases, European cooperation is necessary and useful, but this kind of European interference is not something that the SP is waiting for. We're in charge of our own trail, and we're in control of our own. Discussions on the future structure of our railways are taking place here, together with all of us in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u111	There is another question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u112	I have a brief question for Mr Laçin of the SP. How does he look at the fact that the NS is also operating abroad, namely in Germany and England? Do you think that's a good thing? Can you continue to support that? Do you also see its added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u113	I don't necessarily support that, but the NS is doing this. The NS is independent, although we are the largest shareholder. The NS is doing this. I don't see much reason to stop that right now or anything like that. If that is the case, and if it is going to lead to less, then I think that we should have a good debate on this as a parliament. Now I see no reason to say: hey NS, stop it and come back to the Netherlands alone. Actually, that's for the same reasons you just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u114	But you have no problem with Germany and England allowing the NS on their trail?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u115	No, not necessarily. We believe that the NS is doing well and that we should, above all, strengthen it. Somewhere it is a matter of principle against market forces, but as long as the NS is doing well, we should primarily encourage the NS to do so. That is why I said just now to Mr Jetten, or to you, I do not remember that if things are very bad, we should look at alternatives. There are no many Dutch alternatives to the NS. So you end up with another party. We are confident that the NS can do this very well, can do even better and that we should, above all, encourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u116	Thank you. Mr Jetten was already ready for his own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Fourth European Railway Package: a package of measures aimed at completing the European rail market. With this package, the European Commission intends to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector and thereby boost the growth of rail transport in Europe. D66 supports that ambition. In their own country, the railway is an important link in the mobility mix of OV, bike and car. Good train connections are crucial for the accessibility of our cities and regions. That is why we also invest in rail infrastructure, so that even more intercity and sprinters can drive and travel times become shorter. D66, together with this cabinet, also focuses on more cross-border rail links. We do this close to home for commuting in the border regions, but we are also strongly committed to more international routes that can compete with short-haul flights. The question today is how this European rail package will help to achieve those national targets. How does this rail package help with more and better train services in the Netherlands and with more cross-border connections? Mr. Chairman. It was to be expected that tonight we would talk mainly about competition in the rail market. In this Chamber are fans of more market forces and on the other hand parties who want to go back to a state-owned company. For D66, market forces or competition on the railways are not an end in themselves. Competition is a means, and in this case a means to obtain the best possible product for the traveller. The Netherlands is actually ahead of many European countries when it comes to implementing European rail legislation. This package is going to have a much greater impact in other countries, because years ago we started a change. It was needed years ago, too. Infrastructure and stations in the Netherlands have not always met quality standards. The punctuality of intercity and express trains was below par. In regions there were hardly any trains and if there were trains, they were old. At the time, international connections could not compete with the aircraft at all. And yes, we have struggled in the Netherlands with the division of NS and ProRail, with the introduction of regional concessions and market forces through regional carriers. But if we take stock now, the Dutch sector is simply in good shape. Many stations have been expanded and renewed. Our rail system is simpler and less vulnerable to disturbances. Regional authorities have been better able to connect the train and bus and regional carriers show that with new trains and a better product you can attract thousands of new passengers on decentralised lines. By focusing on the main rail network, the NS has also significantly improved its performance. With good equipment, good staff and new concepts, the NS of the trains has made a formidable competitor in the urban regions. And even at the HSL we have seen over the past year and a half that incentives can help to keep a carrier sharp and continue to improve the product.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u118	Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear all kinds of praises from my colleague from D66 on our trail. We agree with him. Things are actually going pretty well in the Netherlands. But if things are going so well in the Netherlands, why would we accept that we should let Brussels decide what will happen next? We're doing just fine here. We don't need those people there in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u120	First of all, those people in Brussels are all of us. This is a European railway package that the Netherlands has just talked about. In fact, in the next part of my speech I come to the question raised by Mr Van Aalst. So my thesis is that the Dutch track is doing well. Of course there can be a lot better, but it's just going well. As far as we are concerned, breaking open the rail market a few years ago has been a very important reason for this success, but we are now facing a new system leap. We all want more trains and we all want an even better door-to-door journey with all kinds of different concepts that are knotted together. Then we have to ask ourselves whether this railway package is going to help. This evening we spoke mainly about the main rail network and the position of the NS. This cabinet actually builds on the line of the previous government, saying that a new direct award to NS.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have a number of questions to the Secretary of State about how she comes to that consideration, but also a number of suggestions on how to do it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u121	I'm thinking, let me help Mr. Jetten by making some suggestions for what he might ask the Secretary of State. Indeed, it is still possible to grant it directly. This European railway package will ensure that it is no longer possible. It's nice that it says "buyed, unless" and that there's still a way out somewhere, but you'll also see what's about to happen: Brussels is going to decide what we're about to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u122	I believe that we in this Parliament should decide what we want with the railway and railway markets and then look at which party can do the best for us and ensure that travellers in the Netherlands come from door to door as quickly as possible, comfortable and affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u123	I am also very happy that was a positive point in my contribution, which may not have been noticed about that direct award. That we have retained that possibility, the SP is also very pleased with it. We only know that this direct award will have to take place under much stricter conditions. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that developments and situations that unintentionally reduce the performance of the NS, in this case, should not, therefore, lead to worse performances, so I have mentioned a number of examples, such as rail crossings and leaves on the railways should not make it more difficult to award privately when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u124	First of all, my group is going to go into this in more detail in a moment. I have indicated that I understand that it can be done in that package and that I also understand that the cabinet is careful about it, but it must be subject to very strict conditions and I will mention them in a moment. Then there is the answer to Mr Laçin's question. He just said himself that 100% punctuality doesn't exist. I totally agree with him. Of course, there are always external circumstances that can influence the performance of rail transport operators, in this case, but I also believe that the current KPIs, the performance indicators that we have, should not be the set of agreements that we should have from 2025, in the next decade. We have very great ambitions with each other when it comes to growth on the track, so we need to look for other incentives. I really believe in a door-to-door journey, in which all carriers have a role to play. That is what we need to pay for transport companies, and if they do not comply with these performance agreements, then we need to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u125	I very much agree with Mr Jetten that we are very ambitious, that we should, above all, monitor these ambitions and that we should also focus our KPIs on them in the future. I couldn't agree more. My question is, in particular, whether external factors will soon be able to influence the performance of rail transport operators, as they are doing now, and whether this should play a role in direct award or contracting or whether we should simply look purely at what a carrier has in its own hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u126	As far as I am concerned, we are looking at what the carrier has in its own hands, but there is, of course, a question from Mr Laçin underneath. That's what we just heard in his own speech. I am convinced that the NS has been awakened over the past 15 years by losing a number of lines and by other carriers challenging the NS by inventing new products. The NS really went through a cultural change. It would not have been there, or at least it would not have been as fast, if the NS had still been able to provide rail transport throughout the Netherlands in recent years. Those market incentives really stirred up the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr Jetten spoke about KPIs. I hear that from other colleagues here in the Chamber. Would it perhaps be an option, as I have suggested in my contribution, to look in advance, through a pre-contractual phase that is also used in a procurement process, at what is actually available in the market and then to attach conditions to it, which could eventually lead to a direct award?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u128	I thought it was an interesting suggestion from Mr Ziengs. We can also look at a number of other countries, or, for example, Scandinavia, where there is now a radically different procurement process. There are very different questions asked. They don't ask about buses or trains, but they ask people to come from A to B and to think as a transport company how to do it best. In the Netherlands we are actually still looking at the concession system in a somewhat old-fashioned way, both nationally and regionally. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. I had just arrived at the piece: "buyed, unless" or "underhand, unless." The previous cabinet had taken a very clear position on this and it had also coordinated its efforts in Brussels. You can see that the present cabinet, in the legislative amendment that is now before us, has not chosen a radically different course. I have just said that for D66 direct award is negotiable after 2025, but we are not going to make that assessment until the next few years. A mid-term assessment of the current NS transport concession is still to come. In it, the NS will have to show real performance. We will also have to keep our finger on the pulse in the last five years of the concession. That will determine how we deal with the new concession for all of us. If the cabinet still opts for a new direct award, then we want more ambitious agreements. We have just talked about this with a clear bonus-malus system. I think, for example, that the threat on HSL that one could lose the transport concession at some point is really a way to stimulate such a company. On the other hand, of course, you must also ensure that such a carrier is rewarded when it comes with new concepts and improves performance. In the concession system you can install a few things for this purpose. The second hard condition for us is that there should be a fairer playing field with the other carriers. But before I go into that, Mrs Kröger has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u129	I hear Mr Jetten talking a lot about performance. We need to monitor the performance of the NS well and be better or not to make a decision about what it looks like after 2025. To what extent does a genuinely in-depth evaluation of how the contracting authority has currently developed, including in terms of working conditions and social security on the regional lines, play an important role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u130	I heard Mrs Kröger just now about this, but I do not see the problem as such. We know very well what's going on. We have had all kinds of studies over the last few years and we have had a vision of the future in the public transport sector. Of course, regional concessions, as well as the national concession, need to see if we can improve social security and that kind of thing. But my observation is that regional authorities are very capable of considering what is important for the regional traveller and that they are also able to carry out a good regional concession. I think we know very well here in this Chamber how we want to deal with the main rail network. How many studies do we need to be able to make that assessment with each other in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u131	I think Mr Jetten needs some more research. The traveller on one; that story is very clear. In this context, he would also like to look at social security. But what he does not consider, in the context of the employees, is the question of whether contracting does not lead to a race to the bottom, which is printed on the working conditions. That is a very real problem. You can see that in regional bus transport and you can see that by rail, but we don't do anything with that. How do we ensure that this is also mentioned in the discussion about the future after 2025?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u132	So I guess we don't need an investigation to do that. I think that we here in the House of Representatives and all our colleagues in municipal councils and provincial states, who also issue concessions, talk very often about social security in this type of debate, talk very often about working conditions, and that we all want them to be just properly regulated, whatever company exercises that concession. So we don't have to do research for that. We can simply agree with each other on what is important to us that such a company delivers and what we consider important for social security and working conditions. We can just do that with each other here in the debate and give the State Secretary as a concessionist a mandate for it. Mr. Chairman. My questions to the Secretary of State about that direct award would be the following. Can the Commission outline what possibilities it sees to encourage the carrier on the main rail network to improve performance even more in the event of a possible direct award than is already possible under the current concession? Does the Secretary of State also consider examining the three strikes and you're out principle, as we know on the hsl, in order to see if that could also be interesting for the main rail network? I just said it, too. If we come to a situation where we say again "the main rail network is an important integral system; we want one carrier for that and we are going to grant it directly," then D66 considers it important that there is also a fair playing field for the other carriers in this country. In doing so, you have to look at the room for manoeuvre available to the various carriers. Are the limits of the current main rail network concession and the regional concession optimal, especially from the passenger's perspective? How do we ensure that there is an even better connection between that main rail network and the regional lines? There was just talk here about cherrypicking and parties that are going to pick out the Amsterdam-Eindhoven line. I think that's a little scary, because we all know that's not the discussion. The discussion is: can the regional train that stops at station X continue to drive one or two stations, so that the traveler on the regional train can easily switch to an Intercity or a Sprinter of the NS? So let's not make each other crazy around here. What is ahead are concrete examples, such as the Valley line, which is now stopping in Amersfoort and which could perhaps continue until Utrecht, so that all travellers in the system get an easier journey. My question to the Secretary of State is: how does it now assess that level playing field, with the exception that the Netherlands uses in terms of open access? Does it see any possibility of linking the boundaries of the main rail network concession with those regional concessions, so that both the regional carrier and the carrier on the main rail network can offer an even better product to the traveller? Then there's a little bit about international service. When it comes to open access, D66 also wants good access for travellers who are not resident in the Netherlands. Currently, as a Belgian or German with a bank account from that country, you cannot purchase a train subscription in the Netherlands. This is very annoying for people who, for example, live just over the German border and travel daily to Breda, or people who live in the German border region and want to take the train to the Achterhoek every day for school or work. Does the Secretary of State recognize this problem? Can it consult transport companies to make it easier for EU residents from other countries to buy a Dutch rail product? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few technical points. A number of colleagues have already spoken a great deal about material admission. ProRail now has a clear role there. This role goes partly to the ILT and partly to a European supervisor. D66 believes that the rail infrastructure and the trains that run on it are so closely linked that you should also give Dutch parties a role in this. Especially in the case of the transfer to ERTMS, this link between train and rail becomes even more important. How does the Secretary of State ensure that ProRail is always consulted when issuing new equipment? I am also considering a motion on this point. The implementing regulation also requires an objective economic analysis. What strikes me is that this economic analysis deals mainly with financial aspects, while, as far as we are concerned, the passenger experience is particularly important. Is there a profit in travel time, is there a better chance of a seat and so on? How can the State Secretary guarantee those interests of the traveller in that economic analysis? I am also considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the priority criteria. The current capacity allocation of ProRail has just been evaluated. This is important, particularly for the improvement of the timetable on regional networks and especially in the areas where the main rail network and regional lines are interlocking. When will the Secretary of State send the results to the Chamber and what is their connection with this bill? Mr President, to conclude completely: there are also many other good points in this package, such as one-stop shopping, which will make it much easier for carriers to make requests without any bureaucracy. This is a package of legislative proposals which is very comprehensive to be dealt with here. That's why I've been focusing on market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u133	I just mentioned in my contribution that a lot of time and energy has been spent on the Fyra survey and the Fyra research. One of the most important recommendations, recommendations 2 and 3, is precisely about market forces, procurement and concessions. It also states that, especially when it comes to contracting concessions, things will have to be worked out in 2018, ahead of 2024. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that these recommendations really need to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u134	Yeah, and I'm assuming that's gonna get a place in the midterm review anyway, so the assessment halfway through the concession of NS and ProRail. But I can wholeheartedly support the questions that Mr Amhaouch has just put to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs twenty minutes to prepare her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u136	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a whole package. That was just mentioned in the suspension. I'm gonna put it aside so I can get enough room to answer all the questions. Mr. Chairman. I thought it would be a good idea for the MPs to outline a little bit in which blocks I intend to answer the questions. Before you know it, things are mixed up, and I think it's good to structure that a little bit. I wanted to start with questions like: why is this package in the interests of the traveller? What's in it anyway? What kind of bill is this? After that, I wanted to go into the market pillar a little more deeply, and then the subject that led to most of the questions put by Members of Parliament, namely the 'contracting, unless' principle. What exactly does that mean? What about later, if you gave in private? What about concession, terms? What about review? What role could pre-contractual exploration play? A lot of questions were about that, so I will come back to that in the second block. The third block is about open access to the track. Because even if you decided to give it to me, there's still a situation of open access on the track. So how do we deal with that? How does the economic balance test work? What role does the ACM have in this? There are a lot of questions about that. Then I come to block four: the technical pillar. How does this bill relate to some of the conclusions of the Fyra survey? The role of the ILT and the link between rail and equipment are addressed. Then there will be a block with several questions. Mr. Chairman. First of all, what kind of bill is this? This bill implements the Fourth Railway Package of the European Union. This package is intended to remove barriers on the railways between Member States. A number of speakers have also referred to the importance of facilitating cross-border rail traffic, for example. This is very important for passengers, but also for freighters. This implementation is one-on-one, without national headlines that we have put on it in the regulations. In the case of a regulation, it is very often the case that you cannot add anything to it, even if you would like to. The Fourth Railway Package therefore consists of a market pillar and a technical pillar. These are exactly the two blocks on which Members' questions are also focused. The package provides the framework for a decision on the railway organisation after 2025. For us, in part, it also lays down the rules of the game how to deal with it. That is a question we are going to answer with each other in 2020, also on the basis of a whole series of studies that we have agreed to do together. There was a question about how other countries do it, and whether we don't anticipate it, because we are doing it now. An implementation deadline has also been agreed for every legislative proposal coming from Europe. The market pillar must be implemented by 25 December, and that is the case for all Member States. The technical pillar must be implemented by the middle of next year. In addition to this bill, there are a number of more technical, lower regulatory documents, and therefore it is important that we deal with this bill now. I would like to thank the Chamber for taking this opportunity. Mr. Chairman. Then I actually wanted to move on to the market pillar. I actually want to focus on the point of "buying, unless" that I'm about to come up with. What is the purpose of this market pillar?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u138	I just have a question about what's next in the broad sense. The Secretary of State is talking about a regulation, which we must implement one-on-one. However, I can see in the documents that part of this is also a directive, which might allow for national adjustments. I do not know the scope for this either, but could the Secretary of State indicate for me as a new Member of Parliament, and perhaps also for others, as far as the directive is concerned and as far as the regulation is concerned, and on what points we might be able to amend this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u139	There is a difference between a directive and a regulation, and Mr Laçin is right: some of it is, of course, a directive. That means you still have to transpose it into national law. A regulation must also be transposed into national law, but it is already working directly. It may also be the case in a directive that there is maximum harmonisation, as it is called. This means that, as a Member State, you do not have the room to add anything else to that. It also depends on how that directive was adopted. On a number of points, the Directive leads to maximum harmonisation. For example, as a Member State, you should not add additional criteria. There is more room on other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u140	This is about another point. The Secretary of State actually finished the first cup. That would be about what this package will do for the traveller, but I have not actually heard what this will do for the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u141	Well, then Mr Van Aalst did not listen very carefully, because I said that it removes many barriers in cross-border traffic. This is important for both passengers and freight. When we think about how complicated it is sometimes to create cross-border connections, we see that this package helps to make these connections easier through the technical pillar. When we talk about the market pillar, we see that this package across Europe brings the traveller to one and that Member States always put the traveller on one side in the trade-offs they make on their domestic market. In the Netherlands this is already a very common principle. So we wholeheartedly support that. It is also supported in this Directive, for example, by the principle of "contracting, unless." In other Member States this has been even less the principle. There the difference may be even greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u142	I have indeed listened carefully, because what the Secretary of State indicated as an advantage for the traveller, we are actually already doing here. The Dutch traveller already has this advantage. This package does not yield anything for the Netherlands. This will probably only yield for other countries, but not for the Netherlands. The traveller is just having a great time here and I think he has a good connection. So I do not see what this package contributes to the Dutch traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u143	Well, that's the fact, for example, that I'm almost getting the answer to the first block of "buyed, unless" is now also enshrined in Dutch law. That means you don't have to explain anything if you're going to tender. If you choose to grant it privately, you have to clearly motivate it, also from the question of how this will improve the traveller. This means, therefore, a tightening up of the position of the traveller, including in the Dutch situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u144	On the other hand, I see in the legislative report that the Third Railway Package already opens up international passenger transport to competition, that we have already regulated it, and that this package is mainly about domestic passenger transport. I cannot fully reconcile that with what the Secretary of State says about international passenger transport. In my opinion, we had already arranged this in the Third Railway Package, not entirely to the satisfaction of the SP, but well. So I can't completely rhyme with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u145	That is the distinction between the market pillar and the technical pillar. Indeed, in the market pillar, international rail transport has been liberalised before, under the Third Railway Package. This means that it was actually impossible for foreign providers to make offers in cross-border rail traffic. The technical pillar also makes it possible to bring about greater uniformity, for example by aligning the types of safety systems that a locomotive must meet. On the technical side, this Fourth Railway Package strengthens cooperation, thus facilitating the creation of cross-border connections de facto. That is in the interests of the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u146	This is clear then. Let me go back to my first question on regulation and directive. I should like to hear from the Secretary of State specifically what scope the directive gives for amending it? What elements are those? If she can specifically name that, that would help us a lot, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u147	Yes, but I would like to ask Mr Laçin where his specific question is, because I can go over this whole article-by-article package with you, but we will be here tonight. So my question to Mr Laçin is: where is his specific question? If he has a certain amendment in mind, it is easier for me to assess it than to go through what is possible per article.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u148	I hate to give up my plans right now, but I'm going to do that in this case. For example, I am talking about keeping ProRail always involved, and not handing over the national competence of the ILT to the ERA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u149	I would like to see Mr Laçin's precise proposal. Then, of course, I will provide an assessment in the light of what can and cannot be done within the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u150	I have a question following on from the answer to a question from my colleague Mr Van Aalst. His question was: how does it show that the traveller is number one? Then the answer was that it is evident from the fact that it is now "contracted, unless" and that this is therefore an improvement for the traveller. What does the Secretary of State base that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u151	In the follow-up to the reply I gave to Mr Van Aalst, I said that if you want to give it directly, it must be accompanied by a real improvement. The traveller has an interest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u152	Sure, but that could also be given in a phrase 'by hand, if'. Why is it specific "contractors, unless" by definition an improvement for the traveller?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u153	I said that if you want to give it to me privately, that should be accompanied by an improvement for the traveler. The linking of an improvement for the traveller to the direct award will strengthen the passenger's position. It is not so much a question of whether you opt for "contractors, unless" or "granting by hand, if." The choice made in the Directive is "contractors, unless." The advantage for the Dutch traveller is that now the direct grant, which is still an option, is linked to an explicit improvement in the position of the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u154	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u155	But if you look at how the Dutch rail system works, how our main rail network works, then a "underhand grant, if" with a number of strong preconditions, which has already been mentioned, would have been much better, clearer and longer-term more sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u156	That is not a question as-then, but a question as-then, because this has played during the negotiations. So perhaps Mrs Kröger should have asked that question a few years earlier. I can just imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u157	On the basis of the story of the "buyers, unless" and the handing out, the Secretary of State sees a possibility that it will be better for the traveller. I do not think it is getting any better, because that is precisely where this package is going wrong. That is what we are giving to Brussels and at least we are no longer able to judge ourselves. Then Brussels is going to assess whether it's getting better. All we have to do is deliver it. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree with me? Isn't that how it's written?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u158	No, because we have to motivate ourselves whether, as far as we are concerned, it meets the criteria laid down by the law. Of course, any decision taken by the Dutch Government is always subject to judicial review, but that is true of any decision we take. That is no different for this, but the justification is with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u159	Yes, the reasons remain with us, but the Secretary of State must agree with me that we are now deciding whether or not to proceed with a direct award, but that Brussels will decide whether or not our reasons are in order. And if it is not in order, the direct award will not take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u160	No, Brussels is not going to decide that. It's up to us. We take a political decision or we believe that this direct award meets the criteria. If a third party feels disadvantaged, it can always object and appeal and eventually go to court. That's how this bill works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u161	I would suggest that the Secretary of State should finish this section first, because we were already a little ahead of schedule. If there are any questions at the end of that block, they can be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u162	Very good, Mr. Chairman. Then I will start with Mr Ziengs' questions on the role of the ACM. Maybe it's good to mention the conditions. The main new measures in this package are therefore open access for domestic passenger transport and stricter conditions for the direct award of rail concessions and the strengthening of the infrastructure manager's independence. The main consequences for the Netherlands are therefore that this direct award remains possible under two stricter cumulative conditions. That is precisely what the interests of the traveller are in. The new concession should lead to an improvement in the quality of services or cost-effectiveness or both compared to the previously awarded public service contract. The direct award of the new concession shall be considered justified in the light of relevant structural and geographical characteristics of the market concerned and the rail network and in particular its size, the characteristics of demand, the complexity of the network, its technical and geographical isolation and the services covered by the contract. Those are the conditions that we will have to meet. Then Mr Ziegs asks about the role of the ACM in the direct award of a concession. Private award is, in particular, a political decision, as I said earlier in response to a question by Mr Van Aalst. I'll make that decision in consultation with you. A concession awarded is a decision which is open to opposition and appeal. The Board of Appeal for Industry is the judge who takes a final test on this direct award, including whether it has been carried out in accordance with the rules. The Dutch system thus already fits well with the requirements of the PCA regulation. Should the role of the ACM be strengthened? I think it makes sense to hear the ACM in the process and I will see where the ACM can best fulfil that role throughout the process. I fully understand the question raised by several members of the Chamber about a role for the ACM in this process. I'll see where I can fit that part. Mr. Jetten asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u163	I see Mr Jetten at the interrupting microphone, but I had asked if you could keep your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u164	The question is very brief and is very specific about this point. Could the Secretary of State give us more insight into this if we get the Zbo Act for ProRail? I think that's a good time to discuss this ACM role more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u165	I'll do my best. My officials seem to have some doubts as to whether this is feasible, but we are going to do our best. If you can't, we'll let you know. It's an effort obligation. This may also touch on Mr Laçin's question of how the different roles of the ACM relate to each other. The ACM is a market regulator on the track. From that position, she can give advice. That is why I find a role for the ACM somewhere in this process something I can imagine. Mr Amhaouch and Mr Jetten explicitly asked about the "contracting, unless" principle. Why does the cabinet understand the "contracted, unless" as "underhand, unless." It's just how you look at it, but what it's about is: when you tender, you don't have to explain anything; if you can do it privately, you have some explaining to do. Then you have to back it up. This "contracting, unless" principle is already enshrined in the Passenger Transport Act 2000 and does not change with this bill, but the existing exceptions are tightened with this bill. They are now directly applicable in national legislation. I've just read you the exceptions in detail. Then we go a little bit to a situation where you have to wonder how to keep pressure on the monopolist if you're going to give in private. How do you keep pressure from getting the best concession? The first question was asked by Mr Ziengs: how do you look at a pre-contractual phase, how can you properly explore what is actually available in the market? I am only translating liberally what Mr Ziengs might have wanted to say. I think that is an interesting suggestion, because you want to take a decision on procurement or direct award carefully. You'll want to explore the different options. How much interest is there? How can you design a possible concession? In order to make a proper balance between procurement and direct award, I will, of course, seek information on the parties' interest in a public tender. That, I think, is about what Mr Ziengs means by a public reconnaissance. I'm looking at it positively, but I'll think about the exact shape. I get the point that he's trying to make, and that seems to me to be a good preparation. We're not making the decision right now. We have some reports first and then we're going to make a decision with each other in 2020. It is very logical that this debate occasionally brings up elements that the Members of Parliament say: we want them to be involved in that decision at the time and in that consideration. One of the questions was from Mr Van Aalst: if you maintain a monopolist, how do you keep pressure on it? I believe that the scope for pressure on a monopolist with the Fourth Track Package has increased and clarified in itself, precisely because of the need to include specific performance indicators that are periodically evaluated in the case of a direct award. Fines should also be imposed where the carrier performing the concession does not comply with the performance requirements. These two points also show that the position of the traveller is strengthened. We were really a long way off in the Netherlands, but there are a number of mandatory conditions that must be met in order to keep pressure on it in the interests of the traveller. In that context, Mr Jetten actually asked about the three strikes out. I know that Mr Ziengs has asked that question before. He actually asked if we should not tighten it from three years in a row to, for example, three times in five years. As a result of the question whether Mr Ziesgs' motion, one of the two, promised that we would take that and examine it as one of the options to be used for a sharp steering to improve the passenger's performance, should we go to a direct award of a concession. I say immediately to Mr Laçin that 100% punctuality of course does not exist. We all get that. But in addition to punctuality, you can do a lot for the traveller. The concessions we have are very broad. The ways in which you can better operate the traveller are also very diverse: comfort, reliability, seating. That wide range of indicators can be identified in a concession with each other. So we can make agreements about this in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u166	Agreed. I agree with the Secretary of State that we can have many indicators. A specific question I asked is whether we can take external factors into account in the agreements we make with carriers. I also asked, for example, if, in the case of a direct award, we will not charge the carriers for external factors which may have played a role in the performance they have provided. For me, it is important to give a carrier the assurance that winter weather or whatever does not lead to a tender rather than a direct award, if it has done what it could and has achieved its performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u167	I think we should take two things apart here. At the midterm review we will do an evaluation. In doing so, we look at how the concessionaire performed at that time on the basis of the agreements made up to then. The failure to complete the agreements will never be translated one-on-one into "there can no longer be a direct award." Of course, it's not that one-on-one. The performance over the first half of the concession is, of course, a factor in the question of how successful we find this model. In addition, you have the performance agreements within the concession. There's fines on that sometimes. That is also a discussion every year. Every year there is another discussion with the Chamber about whether we believe that failure to achieve an objective is a reason to impose a fine immediately, or a conditional fine because we do see that there is improvement. I did that last year with ProRail, for example. The situation presented by Mr Laçin is therefore dealt with carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u168	Good to hear. I only hear the specific to which I am asking, i.e. the external factors, not very much in the reply of the Secretary of State. We make agreements and can impose fines and have a discussion here, but I am curious to see how we consider external factors, i.e. force majeure, in the performance on which we pay the carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u169	Real force majeure always plays along, now too. The question is to what extent we allow them to be considered and what we all count as force majeure. Now, of course, real force majeure is being taken into account. We're getting on open access. Open access is what the Fourth Railway Package now adds to the Third Railway Package for the internal rail market. Open access means that, under fair, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions, a railway undertaking is entitled to access the railway for the purpose of carrying out passenger rail transport services. Indeed, this already existed for international passenger transport by rail and also for freight transport. It is therefore now being extended to international passenger transport without a concession. This means that domestic passenger transport by rail will soon be possible without a concession. I say immediately: there are important preconditions. I'll get to that in a minute. Railway undertakings, for example FlixTrain, may gain access to the Dutch rail system in the future, but this right may be restricted by an economic equilibrium test. And that economic balance test is therefore a very important one. That test shall check whether the economic equilibrium in a concession on the same line as where open access is requested is not affected by the new line. Such a test already exists for international passenger transport and is carried out by the ACM in the application. As a concession provider, I can apply for a test at the ACM if I want to investigate whether an existing concession would be adversely affected by a new service. Mrs Kröger asked: if this principle exists in the near future, how can we prevent fragmentation on the main rail network? First of all, the Member State may decide on the size of the network to be awarded, without the need for a separate analysis for each line. So you can determine the HRN yourself. It may consist of a combination of profitable and uneconomic lines, so that a coherent transport system can be ensured. And passenger convenience and cost efficiency also play a role in this. I will, of course, involve the Chamber in my decision on the organisation of the main rail network. We will discuss this with each other in 2020, but I just said that. We must, of course, ensure that the main rail network is used in the best possible way and that unnecessary fragmentation can be avoided. So that's always a balance that we're talking about. For example, there are four lines in the coalition agreement which examine whether they will be decentralised. Those are exactly the considerations you have to make with each other. Is it ultimately in the interests of the traveller? Then there was the question of what we would do if Brussels were to reject the direct award of this question was actually part of the previous block of the main rail network. A very dramatic situation! Do you want me to do this answer? Because I just saw it was actually in the wrong folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u170	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u171	If a public service contract is awarded directly by rail, that decision must only be notified to the European Commission. The PCA does not allow the Commission to then veto. That was actually the answer I gave to Mr Van Aalst earlier. In the end, the judge simply has the last word, but it is not the case that the Commission can veto it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u172	For a moment, I let myself get into what the Secretary of State said about preventing fragmentation. She says that the economic equilibrium test must be carried out, but can the Secretary of State confirm, once again, that that economic equilibrium test meets material requirements such as ensuring the integrated timetable and high-frequency ten-minute trains in the Netherlands? Does that key contain and covers it so that we can do it in the future? Can the Secretary of State give an explanation and a further confirmation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u173	The content of the analysis of economic equilibrium and the assessment criteria shall also take into account the positive or negative effects of the new passenger service on the network covered by the public service contract. It shall also assess the net benefits for the customer, the performance, quality and timetable of the rail service. It is not just a question of whether it is economically profitable or not, but also of what it means for the network if you do so. That's what it's all about, including things like switching and stuff. So the position of the traveller is taken absolutely into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u174	Mrs Kröger, also on this point or on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u175	The Secretary of State said: no, Brussels cannot reject that, because that will then lie with the judge. I am therefore somewhat confused, because it is procurement, unless you can prove that you are going to grant it directly under those conditions. But that's being put to review, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u176	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Imagine if we were going to give it to you in private. Then we report to the European Commission that we intend to do so and send a basis. The Commission will not be able to veto it, but if it believes that the Netherlands is totally failing European legislation, it will always be able to initiate an intergroup procedure. But then you are really talking about manifest failure to comply with European legislation; that is different from the fact that the Commission can veto it. Then it is really up to the European court to determine whether the Member State of the Netherlands is in breach of European legislation, as is the case with all European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u177	Fine. That is the difference between the word'veto' or a European judge who intervenes. The Netherlands is going to motivate a decision to award directly as best as possible, but the point is that it is ultimately up to Europe to decide whether the decision to award directly is sufficiently justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u178	There is now a European directive which says: it is 'contracted, unless'. That is European legislation. But part of the legislation is also that you may deviate from it. Well, then you've got to motivate that. The directive also indicates the basis on which you need to motivate it. If you did not do so, Brussels could say: you have not complied with the legislation. But just because you're allowed to motivate, I think you're gonna have to make it a big deal if you want to have a case to say that your manifesto doesn't comply with the law. It is not a reason to say that you did not follow the "buy, unless" principle. It is not only the difference between a veto and the judge, it is also a difference as to who can judge it. It is not the European Commission that can veto it. That assessment is really up to the judge, who also takes into account everything that has changed about the "contracting, unless' principle, as well as the scope that Member States have been given in shaping that motivation. All this is taken into account when assessing whether the Netherlands is implementing European legislation properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u179	I think there's really the sting here after all. Is it "granting by hand, provided" for the main rail network, as we would say, or "contracting unless"? The Secretary of State says you've got to make a big deal out of it. But of course the fear is exactly that you will be flogged back when you want to give it to yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u180	No, in the situation Mrs Kröger is describing, you would have exactly the same. Even then, someone could go to court, and even then the judge could say at the end of the day: you didn't do it properly. The fact that you have a European agreement does indeed mean that in the end there is always a chance that the European judge will say that you did not carry out the agreement properly. This applies to both the "yes, unless" and the "no, if." The same system applies to both.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u181	I'm going on at the same point. We'll establish the terms. You will be informed by the European Commission. On the main rail network, we are talking about some pretty big concessions. So I can imagine that other market players are going to stir and see if the justification is sufficient. Next comes the story that they can request an assessment from an independent body. One more question was open to me. This body shall be designated by the Member State. Which party is going to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u182	That's the appeal and appeal board... I'm gonna need the exact title. I just answered this in the previous folder. I'll look up the exact title. I answered it somewhere, but I can't find that title for a while, and I'm sorry if I didn't say the title right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u183	Then a very brief follow-up question: what does it do with such a concession? In fact, I can imagine that the whole process is going to be very much delayed in this way. First of all, we are informed through Europe. Then everything's gonna run. Objections are being made. There's gonna be judges involved. I can imagine that this will have enormous consequences for the procurement of such a main rail network.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u184	Look, granting a new ten-year concession is a careful process, starting on time. That is why we are already starting to discuss which research we want to do in order to get a picture of what we want to do in the Netherlands from 2025. So we start on time, just to take the time. The Board of Appeal for Industry is the independent body. Let's see, I'm gonna get back to the questions about open access. Why open access was a question from Mr Ziengs. By 2020, this directive will create the situation of open access in the Netherlands, but the main rail network will be excluded until 2025 if we get a new concession. This is because there is a transitional provision for concessions with exclusive rights, for which the carrier is not compensated. This transitional provision ends with the end of the current concession period for the Netherlands, i.e. in 2024. If I do not make use of this transitional provision, so if I were to say that we will allow it on the main rail network from 2020, the main rail network concession should be broken open. The NS will probably ask for financial compensation from the Empire. Unless Mr Ziengs still has a big bag of money on offer, that's not something we can just do. The HRN is also a coherent system of profitable and loss-making lines. As a state, we receive compensation from the concessione. If you were to undermine the concession on which it bases its income, there would of course be a discussion about compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u185	The answer from the Secretary of State surprises me a little bit. I've already lifted a tip from the veil in my input. In my opinion, Article 27 (4) of the concession by State Secretary Mansveld and NS agreed that an evaluation would take place in 2019. I am not going to mention all the articles, because then my interruption will be quite long, but there are amounts mentioned, such as a net financial effect, greater than 10 million. We're talking about very small things here, so before you get to the 10 million, a lot has to happen. I think this is already settled in the concession. The ghost image the Secretary of State sketches seems a little exaggerated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u186	Mr Ziengs says: the 10 million, you're not just there. I know, for example, that we are paying a fee for one of the lines on which we have decided to decentralise it, whereas it was previously included in the concession. If you're talking about a ten-year concession and a $1 million fee a year, you're already at $10 million. So it's ticking fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u187	That's a free math. In my contribution, I have always said that it was mainly about driving the regional carriers. It's not about breaking up that whole net. I have always referred to the possibility for regional transport operators to continue these last kilometres to a railway station. Mr Jetten also contributed in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u188	I get that question, and it's been playing for a long time. But that is different from saying that in general we do not use the transitional provision and that we open the whole main rail network to public passenger transport. We are in this very discussion when we say that we want these decentralised lines to be better connected to the main rail network. For example, in the Valley line we are actively looking at the possibilities to continue to Utrecht. We realize that there is a price tag on it and that this price tag has to be reimbursed. That is precisely why it requires careful consideration. There could be something, even under the current concession. This is exactly the illustration of it. But that is different from saying: we do not use the transitional provision until 2024; we open it up in a general sense. On the line that Mr Ziengs is talking about, it is a matter of: there has been identified capacity, do we want to use that capacity to improve the connection of that regional line to the Utrecht intercity station? In that same space you could also opt for extra intercity capacity. Then the question is: how many travelers do you serve with one, how many travelers do you serve with the other? That is a trade-off that we then make with each other on that case, knowing that if we choose to do so, that may be a choice to use that capacity for a better connection of the regional line, we have to compensate the NS for that. So there are possibilities, but that's what else to say: in a generic sense, we abandon that transitional provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u189	Following on from Mr Ziengs' question. Indeed, wherever possible, we would like to strengthen these lines from the regions. The question is: is this law going to give more room for that? Is he gonna give us more chances? Or can we do all that with the current law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u190	The answer to this is divided into two parts. We are now using the transitional provision because we have an ongoing concession. That current concession and that transitional provision expire in 2024. This means that we can make further agreements for the next concession. In principle, open access applies, but it can also have its effects on the concession. So if you want to organise that in a different way, then you make agreements about it in the concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u191	But if you want to do it in the meantime? I think this law will go into it next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u192	2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u193	2020? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u194	I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how far she is with this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u195	I have three more questions in this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u196	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u197	An important question about how things will turn out in the future is the question about cherrypicking. How do we prevent large carriers from taking over important routes in the Netherlands? You have a main rail network, you have agreed a concession, there is open access and someone says: I would like to drive the Amsterdam-Eindhoven corridor; every ten minutes there is a train there too. Then you run the risk of draining the carrying capacity of your main rail network concession. That, I think, is the concern of Mrs Kröger and a number of others. Do you still have all the good transportation you want? The Fourth Railway Package provides railway undertakings with the right of access to rail infrastructure from 2020 for the provision of domestic passenger transport services without concession, but that does not mean that there can be just cherrypicking. I wouldn't want that either. Member States may limit the right of access to their rail infrastructure if the new service jeopardises the existing concession. That is the economic balance test. The procedures and criteria for applying the economic equilibrium test are laid down in an implementing regulation of the European Commission. I have just answered some of Mr Laçin's questions. The economic equilibrium test thus provides safeguards to prevent cherrypicking. Those were the questions I had, Mr President. Then I have questions about the technical pillar and a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u198	A question specific to this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u199	Yes, about the last block, the last point even of the Secretary of State: the economic balance test. This is an important tool to prevent cherrypicking, in order to avoid unnecessary fragmentation. The elements which make up the economic balance test: can the State Secretary explain this or can it be re-directed? Can we find that somewhere so that it is clear to us how that test is being carried out, because it will be a very important instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u200	Yeah, absolutely. The European Commission has adopted an implementing regulation containing both the procedure and the criteria for applying that balancing test. The concrete implementation of that test will now be done by the ACM. Therefore, the supervisors in the Member States in the Netherlands have to comply with the procedure and criteria laid down in the Regulation. That's how you make sure there's uniformity. How you then apply these criteria is customization. That's what the ACM does. The European Commission is once again ensuring that supervisors apply the Regulation correctly. The economic equilibrium test takes into account both material and intangible effects of the new service. The regulation has also been sent to the Chamber. In it is actually the skeleton of what the key should look like. I can imagine that once the ACM has worked that out, we will make sure that this is shared with the Chamber. You will all have knowledge well in advance of what that test looks like and what is in it. Both material and intangible consequences are therefore taken into account, as they are also mentioned in the regulation sent to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I will then come to the technical pillar. It concerns the safe transport of persons and goods. The Netherlands has been doing very well in this respect for years. We are even in the top ten of the European rail area. The technical pillar ensures that rail systems in Europe are even more compatible and that safety in the European railway area is ensured. This avoids unnecessary duplication of burdens on railway undertakings and increases safety and reliability for passengers. In order to harmonise technical requirements and safety procedures, steps have already been taken at European level. However, it has been shown that unnecessary differences remain between countries. The technical pillar is therefore a further step in harmonisation. With this technical pillar, the European Railway Agency, ERA, will be given new tasks. These are taken over from the national authorities and in the Netherlands from the ILT. An advantage of this is that railway companies no longer need separate certificates and licences in each country. One EU safety certificate and one EU licence are now needed for a train. This will therefore speed up and simplify procedures. The main new tasks are safety certification of railway companies operating in several countries and licensing of trains operating in several countries. The Fyra survey had many recommendations on the role of the ILT. Mrs Kröger referred to this. Then her question is: does the ILT actually remain in position in the Netherlands? Yeah, absolutely. The recommendations of the Fyra survey on policy and behaviour change at the ILT have also been implemented. The ILT now works more risk-oriented and does more checks. With the advent of the Fourth Track Package, the ILT's established working method and attitude will not change. However, the scope of the tasks will be reduced as ERA will assess the international licence applications. The supervision remains with the ILT. The ratio between ERA and ILT is as follows: The ERA deals with the application when driving in several countries. When driving only in the Netherlands, the applicant decides who will handle the application: either the ILT or the ERA. So if you make a train or want to put a train on the track in several countries, you will benefit from running it through the ERA. Then you will be judged at once and you will have that safety certificate for all those countries. If you only want to put something on track in the Netherlands, you could also choose to go to the ILT alone. It is also important that the ILT remains involved in any case in vehicle authorisation for the Dutch rail system, even if the ERA issues it. If the ERA carries out the assessment, the ERA checks the file against the EU requirements and then the ILT checks the file against the Dutch requirements. Therefore, the ILT may request additional evidence or test drives, as well as advice from ProRail. If the permit is requested from the ILT, the ILT will of course do the whole assessment. I see that Mr Laçin is on the edge of his chair because he wants to ask a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u201	I try to get the block finished every time, but it doesn't always work as well. Do you have a lot left, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u202	I have two more questions, both of which deal with ProRail's involvement and a little more about what the ILT is doing. Maybe it's useful to have all that information together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u203	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u204	What does the ILT do? He's checking a file. If the ILT carries out an assessment, the process is actually almost the same as it is now. The only difference is that communication runs through the one stop shop. The ILT checks the file for consistency and completeness and whether the train meets the requirements, both European and Dutch. The ILT may request additional evidence or test drives and may also ask ProRail for advice. That's the affair again. ProRail will remain involved, too. That is also a question that many of you have asked. The system of licensing changes, but ProRail remains involved. In the preliminary phase, the applicant for a licence must check that a train can safely run on the infrastructure and can ask ProRail for advice. During the licensing phase, ERA and ILT are primarily involved, but ProRail can also be asked for advice. The role of ProRail thus changes from a hearing obligation to an opinion on request. I expect that ProRail will be consulted very often in licensing, because you want to make sure that a train can safely run on the infrastructure. I therefore consult with the ILT and ProRail on how the division of roles can be properly recorded. The ILT also elaborates this in a policy rule, which makes explicit the situations in which the ILT ProRail asks for advice. It seems very logical to me that when there is interaction between material and job, ProRail is asked for advice, and that is why that is the policy rule. Mr. Chairman. Those were the last questions, the last one was also a question from Mr Jetten, who I had on the technical pillar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u205	Then Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the issue of ERA and ILT. So if a train is going to drive in several countries, it will go through the ERA, but if it is going to drive in the Netherlands, then the ILT will continue to do that test. Is that binding or is that an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u207	No. In any case, the ILT remains involved in vehicle authorisation in the Netherlands, even if the ERA issues it. Because the ERA then checks the file on the EU requirements and the ILT checks it on the Dutch requirements and can also ask for additional evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u208	So if the ILT concludes that the ERA has insufficient or insufficient evidence compared to the Netherlands, can it impose additional requirements and should they also be met?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u209	The ILT itself makes no demands, but checks on the Dutch requirements. Because we make the demands together. The ILT checks the file on that. If it is complete on all these points, additional evidence may also be requested. If they're not sure enough yet, they can ask for additional evidence. They can also ask for test drives and they can ask for additional advice from ProRail if they think they need that expertise. So yes, the ILT can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u210	If this is the way it happens, then I have to ask why the ILT itself concludes in the legislative proposal that it is being put at a distance. Well, that's a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u211	I'm not sure what you're referring to. This is what the legislation shows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u212	I'm gonna clarify it right now. The ILT indicates that, as a result of the Fourth Railway Package, it loses an important part of its independent role in terms of safety certificates and vehicle licences, as it becomes more remote. But in this story it appears that they do, when a train starts to drive in the Netherlands. So I can't rhyme with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u213	This is about the scope of the task package. The scope of the ILT's tasks will be reduced as ERA will assess the international licence applications. But if there is a vehicle authorisation for the Netherlands, even if the ERA issues it, the ILT is simply involved, because the ERA checks that dossier for the Netherlands for EU requirements and the ILT checks the file for Dutch requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u214	I've been very elegant and generous, Mr. Laçin. You've had an incredible amount of interruptions. I think the Secretary of State has answered your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u215	Yeah, but I wanted to switch to ProRail because it's part of the same block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u216	First Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u217	I want to ask you a question and give you something. I'm trying to do that in a question. I hear the ILT and the ERA every time: en-en, and then again: en-or. That will be well covered, but I want to make sure that we get double procedures right away and we have to go to ILT and ERA for the same thing. Or that we're even gonna get conflicting demands. Does the Secretary of State want us to take a good look at that in the implementation, so that we don't do double things, get stacks or implement contradictions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u218	Absolutely. I think Mr Amhaouch stresses the reason why the technical pillar has so many advantages here. You want to prevent all sorts of things from having to be redone unnecessarily in every country. Therefore, the ILT checks that the entire package made by the ERA meets all the requirements that apply in the Netherlands. If that's the case, there's no extras to be provided. If things are still missing, they ask for something extra instead of having to do everything again by default, at every national authority. That is indeed the great advantage. At the same time, the Dutch situation remains secure, as I have just said to Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u219	At the same point, but a little more specific. In my contribution, I had asked whether Article 26k, paragraph 1, could not replace the word 'or' with 'and'. I will also table an amendment to this effect, precisely to ensure that both the ERA and our own minister remain responsible for these vehicles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u220	Mrs Kröger is right, because she mentioned that in her contribution. I wrote it down, too. I shall come back to that in the second term, because that falls within the category of questions that Mr Laçin asked in general terms: what scope do we have to deviate from? So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u221	Same thing. I am very reassured by the State Secretary's reply on the division of roles between the ILT and the European regulator. I think it's gonna be easier for parties, because you only have to go to one desk. Could the Secretary of State confirm once again that the ILT will always ask ProRail for advice on the admission of vehicles?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u222	In the case of a vehicle, it is natural that the ERTMS will become more important than that about the interaction between vehicle and runway. It is crucial that ProRail's advice is involved. But not everything the ILT does relates to the interaction between advice and job. Here too, it is important that it does not have to be where the manifesto is superfluous. In the policy rule we will work out when ProRail is asked for advice. As I have said, I would find it very logical if that, where there is interaction between job and material, is laid down in that policy rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you for this reply from the Secretary of State. I don't have to file the motion I was considering anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u224	Look, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u225	I do not entirely agree with Mr Jetten. I'm not quite reassured yet, but we're on the right track. ProRail is asked for advice when it comes to equipment and orbit. I can tell that's always gonna happen, but I really want confirmation that it's always gonna happen. Now it's legal that we have to, but it's gonna be an option. I hear the Secretary of State say that's always gonna happen. Mr Jetten's motion may not be necessary, but would an amendment to it really help the Secretary of State to ensure this? And is that policy that the Secretary of State is talking about compelling? Is that the policy that we are always going to implement, despite this European regulation? I'm just looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u226	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u227	I don't think you should put this in an amendment. In consultation with the ILT, we will ensure that we work together well and shape it in a good way. The ILT will then develop this into a policy rule. Indeed, that policy rule makes explicit the situations in which the ILT ProRail requests advice. With this you know when there is interaction between orbit and material. Of course, it makes perfect sense for that to happen. That must therefore be reflected in that policy. We are going to carefully design this collaboration agreement with ProRail and the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u228	Last question on this point, Mr President. Do we, as a Chamber, get to see that policy rule before it's all done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u229	I'm not exactly sure how that usually works with policy rules. I'd like to check that out, because I understand the question. And we all know the history of the Fyra. We want to make sure that it is well arranged; not superfluous, but well arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u230	A new point from Mrs Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u231	Yes, about the ILT, and following on from the remark that we all know the history of the Fyra. I understand there's been a shift in ILT's tasks. I do not read, not even in the report we received, that this means that the ILT will have fewer tasks. It's a shift of tasks. I am very concerned, precisely because of the risk-based approach of the ILT and the fact that we have so many files within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management about whether the ILT has the capacity to do all its work properly. How does the Secretary of State see that the ILT can carry out this task with the resources it now has?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u232	That is a general point that Mrs Kröger and others have often asked for. The Minister and I have said that we will have a discussion with the ILT on whether they really experience this tightening. We have also sent you a letter about this recently, so I think that point has been answered in general. However, the scope of the ILT's tasks will be reduced, as the ERA will assess the international licence applications. So that might save something in Mrs Kröger's capacity demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u233	I understand that there must be capacity for enforcement and supervision. But when it comes to whether there is enough capacity and the letter that has been sent, the point is that the ILT is now working with a risk-oriented approach, whereas this actually requires consistent enforcement rather than a risk-based approach. That enforcement must be carried out on each train unit. How does that fit into a risk-based approach? Doesn't this mean, if the ILT's capacity remains the same, that holes will fall in other areas of the ILT?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u234	The ILT also devoted a lot of capacity to this file and the ILT's tasks are getting smaller, as they no longer have to do the international licence applications. The issue of the risk-based approach is part of a broader cultural change within the ILT that has been initiated, among other things, in response to the conclusions of the Fyra. The ILT is therefore very capable of carrying out those tasks that it is required to carry out. The Minister and I have said that we keep a finger on the wrist at the ILT. If we really have the impression that there are bottlenecks, that will be reported and then we have another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u235	Have we now come to the last few questions under the block of diverse questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u236	Yes, Mr. Chairman. We will then be dealing with the division of capacity; a question from Mr Jetten. The decision on capacity allocation has been recently evaluated. I briefed your Chamber on this last week. So that letter was just sent. We'll talk about that soon. I think that was Mr Jetten's question. I can tell you a lot more about it, but then we are going to have a very different debate with each other. We're gonna do that soon anyway, but on the basis of that letter. Then Mr Jetten had another question about NedTrain's impartiality as a daughter of the NS. To what extent is impartiality guaranteed? ProRail is also currently responsible for the train service management of emplacements. NedTrain is not currently carrying out these tasks as a daughter of the NS, but on behalf of ProRail. This situation is being adapted. Upon entry into force of this bill, ProRail will have to carry out the train service management task on emplacements independently. There was one more question from Mrs Kröger about ERTMS. Do we keep up the pace? Sure we do. This is a very large project which will take a very long time and which has many uncertainties. So we also have to do it carefully with each other and ensure that all the steps we take in all that uncertainty that we are just dealing with are always doing well. But the Fourth Railway Package does not mean acceleration or delay in the deployment of ERTMS. What changes is that ERA will assess whether ERTMS runway equipment complies with all the rules. The ERA will do this before contracting. The question raised by ERA is whether this is interoperable. That is, of course, the essence of the ERTMS as a whole. I think that is a good thing, because it will ensure that ERMTS trains will be able to run on the infrastructure later and that it will also be easier to drive across borders. Mr President, that was the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u237	Can the Secretary of State already respond to the three amendments that have been tabled? Or would she rather do that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u238	I'd rather do that in second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u239	Okay. Then we move on to the second term of the Chamber. Mr. Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u240	Mr President, I saw your questioning look: please do not. But we're gonna do it. It's no different now. I would like to return to a question that I had asked in the first term about the combination of 'contracting, unless', where the complexity of the network might have to do with the operation that took place there. Apparently, that's exactly what caused the complexity. Then the role of the ACM. I would like to check every time on the important advice. In any case, the word heavy must be mentioned in it, so that we know that we think it is very important. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State also accepted my proposal for the pre-contractual phase. She has promised that she will follow a certain form and that she will return to it. I have also mentioned it explicitly in relation to the KPIs, the critical performance indicators, to look at the form of procurement in a different way. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u241	Thank you. I call Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've changed a lot. However, we still have concerns about the ILT. I think that remains a concern in the entire file on Infrastructure and Water State, but also specifically in this file. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the role of ILT in the rail dossier will change significantly;]] [[Considering that this new role cannot now be added to the ILT's remit and that the ILT needs additional people, resources and powers in order to be able to perform this properly;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the ILT is adequately equipped to its new task well in advance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34914-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u243	I kind of predict that the Secretary of State is going to say that there is no need for new people, resources and powers. I would very much like more information on this, specifically on what changes at the ILT. We have gone back and forth quite a bit about the difference between "underhand grant, if" or "buying, unless." I think there really is the essence of the debate. The Secretary of State is certainly right that this is a discussion that has taken place in recent years in the negotiations in Europe on the Fourth Railway Package. But it is also a question of how we are going to fill that out here and whether we really consider this 'underhand, if' with each other as something that is good for the Dutch rail and rail network. I hear a lot of saying that the traveler is on one. Of course, I find that incredibly important, but I think that there is really not enough attention to the whole debate on what procurement has meant for the conditions of procurement and social security. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State how she answers the questions I asked Mr Jetten. How do we guarantee the social aspects and prevent the excesses of procurement, which we have seen in recent years? We have just had Ryanair say that, at the time when a collective agreement is requested, we simply say: we will cancel a branch. How do we ensure that this does not go the same way in the future in the rail sector? I do not know if that is something that should be part of that economic balance, but that is actually my explicit question to the Secretary of State. Finally, a motion on ERTMS, because I do have concerns about it. The Secretary of State says that the intention of the Fourth Railway Package is to make that easier, but a lot is changing, because ProRail's status is changing and the Fourth Railway Package is now being implemented. At the same time we are doing a very exciting and big project, and then you really want to have a close eye that there will be no delay. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of ERTMS on the Dutch track is of great importance for the safety and increase of train frequency;]] [[Whereas the project has been delayed;]] [[Whereas ERTMS requires technical measures for both fixed and rolling material, this also requires the deployment of all current and potential new carriers and of the infrastructure manager;]] [[calls on the Government, together with ProRail and carriers, to identify and mitigate new risks to the ERTMS agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34914-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u244	In addition, I would very much like to have a response to the potential amendment on the change of the word 'or' to 'and'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u245	The Secretary of State had already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u246	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u247	Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u248	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers to the questions about this new law/regulation. We do indeed hope that we will be taken into account in the future, before we make final choices, especially in the procurement of concessions. I have two motions for resolutions and two more questions that I have not been answered in the first instance. First I'll come up with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas neighbouring countries implement in different ways the regulations adopted by the European Parliament and the Council concerning the opening up of the market for national rail passenger transport services;]] [[Whereas this does not, for the time being, create a level playing field and a level playing field;]] [[whereas it is not in the interests of the traveller if the Netherlands allows foreign competition while neighbouring countries do not;]] [[Calls on the Government to reflect on the implementation of the regulations adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on the opening up of the market for domestic rail passenger transport in Belgium, Germany, the UK and France;]] [[calls on the Government to put that image alongside the proposed implementation in the Netherlands and to report it to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34914-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u249	Before you proceed, Mr Van Aalst has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u250	I have a question. I have seen the motion by Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. Suppose that motion is passed, what does that mean for the regulation, the law that is now before us? Your question is, after all, that if all these other countries do not comply with that law, why should we, as the Netherlands, do so? What are you suggesting we do with that law? 'Cause if we take it, that motion won't be much use anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u251	The law is the law, but it always has its own interpretation, including that law. That's what we just said. We want to share some of our own policies, of course within the framework of European law, but we do not want to take the lead. We're not crazy stallions, I'd say. I hope that Mr Van Aalst agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u252	We certainly agree with that. We do not want Brussels intervention at all, that is something else, but we certainly should not get ahead of ourselves with this kind of talk. If we now find that we are at the forefront, does your motion mean that we simply do not implement that law? Because that's what you're actually asking in your motion. You don't want to be crazy. If we're crazy, what are you doing with that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u253	There's a difference between getting ahead of yourself and being crazy. We are already leading the way, if you look at the split between the management, ProRail, and the NS and other players. I think that is in the positive sense of the word. But if we see that implementation in other countries is frustrated, we will have a debate on this in the Chamber. That is why I would like to use this information. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is desirable that rail performance and quality continue to improve at national and international level on a year-on-year basis, at the centre of the passenger;]] [[Whereas long-term concessions should also lead to improved performance in the interim;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the co-governments and knowledge institutions, to examine various options for guiding the continuous improvement of the quality of performance in the concessions to be established during the duration of a concession,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34914-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u254	Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more questions. I had started my first term by giving the Secretary of State the space to share her vision on the future track in the Netherlands, both internally and cross-border. I don't know if the Secretary of State wants to share it with the Chamber. She will once again have the opportunity to do so with us and, of course, to tell us how this European law fits in with that. We also did not receive an answer to the question on the recommendations of the Fyra report. I am referring to Articles 2 and 3. It is mainly about the decision of the cabinet on the layout of the railway. So I am not talking about technical matters, but about the market approach. There are a number of recommendations on this. It also says in the Fyra report that they would come in 2018. Can we expect it this year? If not, when will it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u255	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be brief. I'll have two more questions in a minute. In any case, on behalf of the PVV, I would like to point out that, as far as the law now before us is concerned, we do not really see any advantage for the traveller. We do not need Europe for improving things and putting the traveller on a single footing; we can do this very well here. Now Europe is involved and there is a law in which we do not really have the possibility of amending it. I see all kinds of amendments passing by, but the question is whether it is possible to adapt things to that law. We do not see any need for Brussels to impose anything on us. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions. I asked a question about cross-subsidisation. I don't feel like I've had an answer to that. There is also an amendment now. That will undoubtedly provide the Secretary of State with an answer in a moment, so perhaps she can come back to this cross-subsidisation and how we should deal with it in order to create a level playing field. I also had a question about the granting of parts of, for example, the main rail network. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Ziengs. What are the possibilities? Can we re-appoint parts of the main rail network in another concession if that works out better for the traveller? The Valley line was already passing. What are the possibilities in that? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State exactly what that is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u257	Thank you. I call Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On a number of points that we have raised in the debate, ProRail, ILT, the separation of the roles of ACM and also the content of that economic equilibrium test that will soon have to prevent cherrypicking, we have had a lot of exchanges and a lot of assurances from the Secretary of State. We are still seeing this policy rule on the role of ProRail. The ILT remains in charge when it comes to the Dutch part of the track. We are pleased with that. However, the SP still believes that Europe's meddling in the design of our tracks is unnecessary. We can do it ourselves. That's what we're having here. For example, we have the report Choosing for a good lead. We'll have a mid-term review later. The debate on this issue would also like to take place here, with all the parties and all the ideas that play here in this Parliament. Having said that, I have also made a point of the KPIs we set out and the external factors involved. I heard the Secretary of State when she said that external factors are always taken into account in assessing the performance of a carrier. However, in order to confirm this, I would like to table a motion on this matter and I would like to hear the State Secretary's opinion on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, following the introduction of the fourth railway package, a condition for direct award is that there should always be an improvement in quality compared to the previous contract;]] [[noting that quality improvement depends not only on the efforts of the carrier but also on external factors;]] [[Whereas external factors may be a reason not to improve quality;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the influence of external factors on quality improvement can never be the reason for not granting a concession directly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34914-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u259	To conclude, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if in her reply in the second term she can take us more with her in time. Would it outline a timetable for the number of commitments on the ProRail policy rule, the ACM and the economic balance? When can we expect it? Before we make any final choices, I want us to be able to express our opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u260	Thank you. Finally, Mr Jetten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u261	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. It was a bit of a technical debate once in a while, but that's what you get with this kind of implementation legislation. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has been able to answer many questions and have also been able to remove many concerns. I am also actually glad that we finally had a rather nuanced debate on the added value of market operation in the Dutch rail sector, because I think we all want the traveller to be on one, two and three, and that we will make a new quality leap in the Netherlands over the next ten to fifteen years, so that travellers have a comfortable, affordable and fast door-to-door journey. I have heard this evening between the lines that we all understand that these regional concessions, the admission of a number of other parties to the rail market, have led us to have a better rail product in the region. I have also heard that many groups still see opportunities to look at the edges of the main rail network and those regional concessions to see how to further optimize it. I have also indicated in the first term that D66 is nuanced compared to the future of the main rail network, because we see that NS has greatly improved performance in recent years. We can imagine that, even after this concession NS, we will have that role played on the main rail network. We have attached a number of conditions to this for continuous performance improvement and a fair playing field. I am satisfied with the answer given by the Secretary of State that she will take this with her in the midterm review and preparations for the new transport concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u262	I do not think that we have had a nuanced debate here about market forces on the track. I believe that we have had a debate on what is happening in Brussels and what is being poured over us. I am also pleased with the answers given by the Secretary of State, although I still expect some things. But I just wanted to correct that this debate on market forces was on the track and that would be a nuanced debate. We've gotten closer, but I think we're on other topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u263	Thank you. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u264	I'm also gonna respond to this bat in the hound loft. Mr Jetten said that he wanted the traveller to be on one, two and three. In my view, there are still parties who have real doubts about how the tenders are going to work out and who therefore want to have that examined before we have any further discussions on what it is doing in the social field, particularly in terms of the position of workers and in terms of social security. That's an underexposed element. By saying that the traveller must stand at one, two and three, but not to appoint that, the discussion is not justified. I think that will really be the crucial issue if we continue to look at tenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u265	If you put the traveller on one, two and three, then you have to fully include these conditions of employment and social security, because otherwise you will not come up with a product for the travellers. We totally agree with that. I really do see that nuance in this debate, because if you print out the lyrics, you are either completely in favour of market forces or you are totally against them. In the interrupting debates tonight, I think we have seen that we all understand that with good incentives you can seduce all those transport companies to better performance for the Dutch traveller, and that is what I find profitable tonight. Mr President, I shall now move on to my second term. A number of groups have asked questions about this open access and about the improvement on these edges of the various concessions. I understand and I support the Secretary of State when she says we're not gonna do cherrypicking on the main railroad. I stress that D66 really sees opportunities to further improve those regional concessions on those edges. I am really looking forward to the work done by the Secretary of State in relation to the agreements we made in the government agreement. Mr Ziegs had just forgotten, in all his enthusiasm, to table a motion. As Liberals among themselves, you'll help each other out, so I'll file that motion now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court is only officially informed when the policy proposal for the grant of the concession has been laid down;]] [[Whereas, in the case of direct award, the process of policy-making towards effective decision-making takes six months to one year and that in the case of contracting, the process of policy-making may take three to four years;]] [[Whereas the Court should have a transparent flow of information throughout the process;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber regularly, but at least once every three months, of the process during the negotiations on the concessions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Ziesgs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34914-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u266	The floor is for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their questions and comments in the second term. I'll try to answer them quickly. Mr Ziengs had a question about the complexity of the network. I think he would have set that in the first term. What makes a network complex? Are those operating requirements? Of course, you can make it very complex by the way you set operating requirements, in extremes, but complexity is mainly determined by the structure of the network, the coherence between different lines, the geographical characteristics, the capacity utilisation and/or the intensive use of the network. There is therefore some link with operating requirements, but it is mainly those other factors. Mr Ziengs also had a question about the role of the ACM. He asked if the advice was significant. I would not dare to ask the ACM for an opinion without making that very important, so we will indeed give weight to that. On the subject of the pre-contractual phase, too, I think Mr Ziengs and I agree. I'm going to see Mrs Kröger, who has a motion on the ILT. If Mrs Kröger is prepared to delete the second recital, I leave it to the House to decide. The second consideration is, as far as I am concerned, ahead of us. I think it is important that the ILT is sufficiently equipped for its task well in advance, so I would like to leave Mrs Kröger's opinion to the Chamber. I agree that this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u268	I'm prepared to make that change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u269	On the motion in part No. 12 I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u270	The motion in part No. 12 gets in amended form "judgment chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u271	The motion in part No. 13. If I may interpret the request in such a way that I pay attention to this through regular progress reports, I can also leave the opinion on this motion to the House. It is of course always important to continue to assess risks, especially in such a large and long-term project. We will always have to make sure that there are factors that can affect us. We need to look at this, too, so I'll take that into account in the progress report. I see Mrs Kröger nodding, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber. There was another question about social aspects. In the research design we come back to the aspects where we say we want to learn lessons before taking the decision on the future planning on the track. So they're in there. Mrs Kröger had the question of whether Article 26k should also be "and'. Article 26k deals with the vehicle licence. This states: "It is prohibited to place a railway vehicle on the market, for use on the main railway infrastructure or part of it, for which no vehicle authorisation has been granted by the European Railway Agency or our Minister." If we were to 'and' it would mean that our Minister would also have to give permission for marketing in Italy. It can't be. Unfortunately, the answer to the question of whether it can also be "and" is no. Then we'll go to Mr. Amhaouch. He asked me in his third question for my vision on the track. Of course, I should have started with that. My vision on the track is: the traveler on one. Both the organisation of the market and our technology must always be geared towards this. That's my point of view on the track. As soon as we start discussing the organization of the market in the Netherlands, I will examine it, so what is in the interests of the traveller and how we organise it so that the passenger's interest in one state rather than a preference or a dislike of a particular form of market operation. The traveller can count on his interest to prevail. That is my view on the future of the railways in the Netherlands. Mr Amhaouch also asked for a number of reports resulting from recommendations 2 and 3 of the Fyra. All the reports we need, i.e. those with the scenarios referred to by Mr Amhaouch, but also all kinds of other reports on which we have said together that we consider the information relevant for the consideration to be made in 2020, will be sent to the Chamber by the end of 2019, beginning of 2020. Then we'll have all that information in time to make up our minds together. In his motion, Mr Amhaouch asked for item No. 14 actually to provide information on how other countries are implementing it now. Given the implementation period, we cannot wait, but it is important to have access to how other countries do it. If I can interpret it as such an information question, I'll leave it to the Chamber. And I see Mr. Amhaouch nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u272	The motion in part No. 14 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u273	Mr President, today is a good day! Mr Amhouch's motion on item No. 15 requests that, in consultation with co-governments and knowledge institutions, options be examined to continuously steer and ensure quality improvement throughout the duration of the concession. I absolutely intend to, but I would also like to discuss this with the NS and ProRail. Perhaps Mr Amhaoch would consider adding that. Then the motion is also complete about the parties that it is about, but I can guarantee him that I will of course just do it, even if he does not add it. I can therefore leave the motion to the judgement of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Mr. Van Aalst. He had another point about cross-subsidisation. I shall come back to that in a moment to an amendment tabled by Mr Ziengs, because I am doing the last of those amendments. Mr. Laçin has a motion on part number one. 16 which asks the government to ensure that the influence of external factors can never be the reason for not granting them directly. Mr President, I can interpret him in two directions. If Mr Laçin says that external factors mean that there can be no improvement in quality, then I cannot give that guarantee. But I think I can read Mr Laçin's motion in such a way that he says that the influence of external factors cannot be the reason why you cannot allow it on your own. I have already said that we always consider external factors and that this situation will not arise. So I could also say that the motion is superfluous in that sense, but well... Actually, in both cases, I have to discourage the motion. I'm sorry, Mr. Laçin, because I was going to look at it positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u274	The motion in part No. 16 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u275	We are going to have a debate on that! I am mainly concerned with the second, namely that the agreements made with the carriers are leading. External factors will always play a role in this, but they should not be the reason, for example, not to grant them directly. I hear we are on the same page and I would therefore ask the Minister to reconsider her judgment. I think we want the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u276	We're having a good night. We mean the same thing, namely that external factors should not be the reason why they cannot be awarded directly. We both know and we also have an understanding that we cannot simply stretch external factors as a reason to say: that is why I cannot achieve an improvement in performance. If we understand each other that way, I see Mr Laçin nodding, I shall also leave this motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u277	The motion in part No. 16 is judged by the Chamber, taking into account what has just been changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u278	Mr Jetten asked if the Secretary of State could give an idea of how the ACM would be involved in the bill for ZBO. It seems appropriate to me to do so when modernising the Railway Act. I'm gonna see if I can do that by the Zbo Act. Mr Jetten has tabled a motion, co-signed by Mr Ziegs, in respect of item No. 17 on a very important point, namely how we can organise the flow of information between the Chamber and the Cabinet in this long, important and complex process of granting a concession in such a way that the Chamber is properly included. I recall that the Chamber appointed a rapporteur on the previous concession. I could imagine that we would agree with that rapporteur on how we are going to allow the flow of information to flow. In the interests of the state's negotiating position, you do not want to spell out some information directly in the debate in detail, but I do think it is important that the Chamber is well informed. I would therefore suggest that Mr Jetten and Mr Ziengs amend their motion in that sense or that they hold the motion for a moment in order to formulate it in such a way that we go to information agreements with the Chamber on how we take the Chamber well during the period to which the motion relates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u279	Mr Jetten and Mr Ziengs had discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u280	Yes, Mr. Chairman, good consultation between the two proposers. We will amend the motion and have it circulated in modified form later. That will be in line with the Secretary of State's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u281	The motion in part No. 17 is amended. That'll give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u282	Mr President, I always have to take a look at the change first, but I fully assume that it is an amendment that we can agree to. Then I'll let you know. But I'm assuming it could be a "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u283	Then there are three amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u284	There are still amendments, absolutely. I have amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 10, 11 and 9. Let me start with the amendment to item No. 9, that's about the accounting separation. I've asked the ACM to update the quickscan for the rail market. That was Mr Ziegs' request, which tabled a motion for a resolution. This motion also dealt with Mr Van Aalst's point. I expect the results in spring 2019. That was indeed anticipated earlier, I think, but it has been announced that more time is needed to carry out that update. That's what we reported to the Chamber. This point is also important to discuss with the shareholder, because it is partly about business-sensitive data. But it is first awaiting the quickscan requested by Mr.Ziengs, which will be delivered in early 2019, spring 2019. In doing so, I must discourage the amendment as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u285	The amendment in part No. 9 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u286	Mr. Chairman. We shall then come to the amendment on item No. 10 on the advance of open access for the main rail network to 2020. Mr Ziengs and I discussed this at length in this debate. In line with what we have exchanged, I must advise against this amendment. The transitional provision can no longer be invoked for the new HRN concession. Then we can choose again, but now we can't simply do that. So I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u287	The amendment in part No. 10 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u288	Moreover, we have also exchanged the fact that there are opportunities to improve the connection of regional lines to the main rail network in the coming years. That's what we're actively talking about, even as a room. Mr. Chairman. It was a good day for the motions, but not for the amendments, because unfortunately I have to discourage the last amendment in this form. A decision to grant a concession is carefully prepared and, as I have already promised, I will also ask the ACM for advice. I'm sure I'll take that into account. But if we start to define the possible role of one party in the law, it will also lead to a national head. As I have said, I think it is important to ask the ACM for advice, and I will. Those were, if I may say so, the remaining questions and amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u289	But Mr Laçin has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u290	Yeah, I'm not gonna stop today. I had asked for a timetable for the policy rule and the ACM balance test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u291	Now I had hoped that I would have recorded them all neatly, but Mr Laçin is right. I suggest we report that in writing to the Chamber. Then you simply have the overview when things can be shared with the Chamber and you don't need to start writing very hard now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u292	Thank you. I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u293	These motions and amendments will be voted on next Tuesday.
