ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u1	I welcome the Minister for Medical Care and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as well as the MPs, the few people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Seven speakers have signed up. It is a 30-member debate, so everyone has three minutes' speaking time. I'd like to meet with you two interruptions in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. As a driver in care with a great responsibility in a complex field of work you can make quite a living. That is also true in the Netherlands. As a caretaker, you can earn up to the same amount as a minister, and that's a wonderful salary. But more than that is exorbitant and unexplainable to people. We pay for the care, and therefore also the caretaker, with a lot of public money. That is why it is so shocking that one in five top drivers in care still deserves above this income standard. That is a lot of care drivers who make optimal use of the transitional right of the Law on Standards Top Incomes. That's not all, Mr President, because 7 out of the 25 most-earning drivers have made considerable progress in terms of salary over the last four years. That's the world upside down, and there's no way to explain this. It is precisely the intention that these top earners should grow to the standard and not make any extra outliers as soon as possible. Do these ministers agree with GroenLinks? I'd like a response. Further investigation by the CIB would have raised questions in some of these cases, we read in the Minister's letter. How's this going? Is there any more clarity? Even if there were no breach of the law in the event of an increase in wages, I would like to know from these ministers whether they agree with me that an increase in salaries for these best-earning top executives is not a good signal and is not in the spirit of the law. Mr. Chairman. Clearly, there's still a lot of work to be done. It may still be a long way in the future, but GroenLinks wants a zero measurement to be made immediately after the end of the phase-out period of the WNT on the state of play of the healthcare providers' salaries. That must therefore be done in January 2023, because then this very long transitional period will be over. Do these ministers agree with GroenLinks? Can they tell us exactly what enforcement on the WNT in healthcare is going to look like? Mr. Chairman. Then there's another positive note. GroenLinks welcomes the announcement that this cabinet also wants subcontractors to be included in the WNT. That is quite right. Compliments for that! We're looking forward to the bill. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that it is more than undesirable for GroenLinks that so many caregivers now earn above the maximum salary of the WNT. From 2023 this should be completely over, but in the meantime, caregivers should not earn more rather than less. We hope that the ministers will take a serious look at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the salaries of the top drivers in the care sector. Top drivers: actually that is a very misleading name. They're often not the best. And they often don't care well, but they get in the way of that good care. They stand for far too expensive and far too many layers of management, while care needs less management, more doctors and more nurses. These aren't top executives, they're top executives who make five, six or sometimes even ten times as much money as a teacher, a cop or a nurse every year. They drive fucking expensive cars. Often it is much worse than that: they are driven in those too expensive cars by a driver. And all too often they crawl behind the handlebars of a private plane. They stay at too expensive hotels, drink too expensive wine and watch dolphins during a city trip. What decadence! All this at the expense of the tax and contribution payer and at the expense of the care. And in the meantime? Meanwhile, thousands of care workers have been fired. Meanwhile, the common Dutchman has started to pay more and more for that care every year. In the meantime, patients are too often unable to receive their medication, because the same drivers are obstructing it. And meanwhile, the caretakers shamelessly fill their pockets. The biggest grabs in this public sector have even increased their salary in recent years, whereas we in the Chamber had agreed that salary increases were no longer allowed. Despite that appointment, at least seven drivers increased their salary. How could this happen, I ask the minister or ministers. We also agreed that salaries should be reduced from 2017 to the standard of a ministerial salary, the so-called WNT standard. Can the Minister indicate who finished what in the past year? Can the Minister indicate how he will monitor this phasing-out process and how the Chamber will be informed about this? Does the director of the University Medical Centre in Utrecht, appointed in 2015, still deserve more than that so-called WNT standard? If so, how long will that waiver remain in force? Have any other exemptions been granted to other health care institutions? I'd like a response. Are there any other exceptions? Finally. Care benefits drivers with a heart for care. There is no room in this sector for pickers, pocket fillers and exorbitant rewards. In that context, I would like to end with the words that my PVV colleague Gerbrands, whom I am replacing today, spoke during the legal treatment of the WNT, so during the WNT debate in 2011: "Many hospitals and healthcare institutions were once founded by nuns. They did this pro bono, for God, or for free." Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. Even years after the Top Income Standards Act entered into force, one in five directors earns more than the agreed ministerial salary. You legally agree that there will be a maximum salary of €180,000, but some drivers still feel it is necessary to give themselves a salary of more than three tons. Now we already know what the government is going to say about it: we cannot do anything about it, because these people are in transition. The Minister for Medical Care knows all about it, because he himself was in the transitional regime for years. That is the end of the matter and then we can proceed to the order of the day. But I would like to ask the Ministers whether they can imagine that a lot of people do not understand why the most expensive and fattest paid carers will have ten years to reduce their salary to the level of a minister's salary. Do they understand that? Can they explain this to those tens of thousands of hard-working healthcare workers who have been laid off in recent years, without warning, without transitional arrangements and without tons of euros in their bank accounts? Can they empathise with the older nurses who are now working the nursing homes and who are being asked to work more night shifts because there is tightness, because there are staff shortages? Can they imagine that anger? Many workers in care have had to deal with precarious contracts. They have too low wages and too high a workload, and then the top-paid drivers will be given the time to descend to the "hungry wage" of a minister until 2023. That must be the world upside down, wouldn't you say? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet does not opt for the 90% that works hard for little money, but for the 10% that wants to fill the pockets of public money. The cabinet has repealed the law which was intended to bring all people working for the government under the ministerial standard. Why? I'd like to ask the government. Why do we not ensure that all people who work in care, and who are therefore paid from money intended for care, are also covered by the Standards Act? Surely it is very strange and inexplicable to explain that drivers are bound to a maximum, while at the same time expensive consultants and medical specialists are excluded and can earn much more? The Minister has informed us that he is going to arrange that subcontractors in the care sector will soon have to reduce their remuneration for drivers. That sounds very good, but I do have a question about that. He says at the same time that he is going to investigate "whether there is any reason for this measure not to apply to institutions that provide certain forms of care, for example because they operate too much in the private domain." Then my question is, what does he mean by a sentence like that? What kind of institutions does he think of, for example? Can we assume that this is not going to be a back door to help the grabbers in the care? I'd like to hear the Minister for Medical Care's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dijksma of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr President, thank you very much. I have listened carefully to my colleagues who spoke before me and I do not think I am in a position to better express the indignation they have expressed about the way things are going around the top drivers and the top incomes in the care sector. So I simply share what has been said here, and I believe that this is also widely shared in the country. The public indignation is great. The question for tonight is: what are we going to do about it? Unlike Mr Hijink, I refuse to accept that this is the situation. I don't think he wants that either, but he assumes that the cabinet would want that, and I don't really think so. I'd like to be clear about what the cabinet is going to do next. It has been said that the constructions with these subcontractors are being dealt with. The cabinet wants to bring them under the Standards Act. I think that is a good idea, but I wonder if all the tricks that are now being used by drivers in the care to get out of the law are poems. Is that what the system is about? How quickly can the Minister take these measures? My second question is: what does this mean for WNT3? There have been several discussions on the standardisation of top incomes. The cabinet does take a step, but does it take the last necessary step? What exactly does this policy look like? In 2015, my group also asked questions about a director of a home care institution who also acted as a shareholder and thereby provided himself with benefits. Are these kinds of constructions undesirable in the eyes of these ministers? If so, what are they going to do about it? The last point I want to make is about the conversation that should take place with the healthcare sector itself. Surely it is too crazy for words to say that we must always look for loopholes in the law that seem to seize people, while they are in the service of the public cause, to get under something that you can expect to be the most normal thing in the world? In my view, this also says something about a moral deficit among some of those drivers in the care sector. Partly thanks to journalists' research, we know who these are. My question to the rulers is: are you going to talk to the sector? Are you prepared to report back to us on this? I think it is also necessary, in addition to conducting the debates and closing the gaps in legislation, that the conversation should be conducted loudly with those who continue to oppose what is the most normal thing in the world, namely that, when you are in public service, you do not do so for money, but for passion. It's okay to make a few bucks, but that doesn't have to be more than the salary of a regiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Tonight is essentially about the moral compass of the carer. The RTL study shows that a number of drivers have lost this. We believe that the political signal given by adopting the Top Income Standards Act was clear. The fact that, despite this, the salary of some of the most earning drivers has risen faster than wages in the whole of health care cannot be explained. Yes, there is a right of transition, but this is not meant for some drivers to use it to add a little to the salary before they have to cut it down. Our conclusion is that the introduced WNT standards have not yet produced the desired behavioural effect. In fact, it seems that new provisions need to be introduced over and over again, because new circumvention structures are being devised. Hence a number of questions to which we would like to hear the response of the Ministers. The CDA has been critical of the WNT because this law is difficult to enforce. Can the Minister indicate to the CDA Group whether there are circumvention structures in these salaries? Or do these salaries and the associated constructions still fit within the transitional right? Indeed, the RTL study brings forward issues such as loose payments and bonuses that provide a higher income. But these increases have also been agreed within the so-called contractual agreements. Are these avoidance structures, with the tightenings announced in the letter of 22 February, made difficult or even impossible? Maintaining WNT standards is essential. My group would like to know whether, in addition to making circumvention structures more difficult, it is more necessary to comply with the standards. We are thinking of the following three things. High salaries often relate to the size and complexity of the organisation. Scale enlargement tends to push up salaries extra. The coalition agreement states that small-scale care must play an important role. Does the Minister share the CDA Group's view that more small-scale organisation of care is a good way of reducing the incomes of drivers? The second point is the role of the supervisory boards. The Supervisory Board also has a steering role in the salary development of directors. Has the Minister, or has the ministers, been in contact with the Dutch Association of Supervisors in Health and Welfare following the RTL investigation? What role does the Minister see for this association? And finally, the role of the accountant. 39 of the institutions had approval of the auditor's audit, while the WNT standards were exceeded. Are the accountants being called upon to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Slootweg. This calls for an interruption by Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u12	I would like to return to the beginning of Mr Slootweg's speech. He rightly points out that it is inexplicable for people to know that during this transitional period top salaries are rising. I totally agree with him. But does Mr Slootweg agree with me that, apart from the letter of the law, there is no way of explaining an increase in wages, even though it may well have been agreed in contracts, that it is not in the spirit of the law and that we should do something about it? There is also a responsibility of these ministers to appeal to those caregivers on that increase in their salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u13	I may not have been sufficiently clear, but I think I made that point in my speech. There is an internal compass and on that you may just have to address the caregivers. I also wanted to point out a number of other things, such as the role of the Supervisory Board and the Auditor. Of course, that conversation should be started with the people themselves and that internal compass should be stimulated by saying: you are not doing this, you can't really explain this to your mother.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u14	Clear. If that internal compass is not working properly, people must be called upon to do so. There is also a responsibility for politics, which ultimately wants to get to those maximum salaries according to the WNT standard. Good to hear from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u15	That's no longer a question for you. I give the floor to Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. Money earmarked for care should be spent as much as possible on care. A number of colleagues have already indicated this. Of course, care institutions and top health care administrators must comply with the law. There's no question about that. The RTL study of October 2017 shows that 21% of healthcare drivers earned more than the maximum allowed in the norming top incomes Act in 2016. This concerns 15 directors at 40 institutions. In addition to the fact that the law simply needs to be properly implemented, the explanatory notes in the financial statements of health care institutions should also be clear. Healthcare institutions must be transparently accountable and can be audited by the accountant. The annual accounts must also be clear to everyone who looks at them. The Centraal Informatiep Beroepen Gezondheidszorg has conducted an investigation into the reporting of RTL Nieuws. For 39 out of 40 healthcare institutions, an approval audit report has been issued by the auditor, who also looks at the WNT data in the annual accounts. Can we deduce from this that the law was correctly applied by those health care institutions? The Minister's letter states that the CIBG is still examining some cases where the explanations raised questions. Where no statement of audit is known, it has been requested by the CIBG in one case. The VVD would like to know from the ministers what the latest state of affairs is and whether it is now clear whether the law has been properly implemented in the latter cases. How can the explanation of the top executives' salaries in the annual accounts be improved but also facilitated, so that it is more transparent? One final point has already been raised by my colleague from the CDA. Who actually checks, if an accountant has approved it, whether it has actually done so properly? What role does the Supervisory Board play in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u17	Before you walk back, Mrs. Ellemeet has an interruption. Mrs. Ellemeet has good timing. I'd be happy to give her the floor for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear the VVD asking many technical questions to the ministers, but I miss a moral statement from the VVD. What does the VVD think of the fact that there are top drivers who use the transition period to increase their salary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u19	We ourselves, as legislators in the Lower House, have opted for transitional law. I also think it's hard to talk to drivers about that. I must honestly say that, like the CDA, I find it very difficult to explain that in the meantime salaries are rising again. I therefore think it is important that we have a debate in which we state this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mrs. Ellemeet, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u21	To find it very difficult, that's a cautious statement. It certainly is. It is even shocking and inexplicable to people who work very hard in healthcare for much lower salaries. Is the VVD also willing to address these drivers? Does the VVD also think that this cannot be explained to people and that it is not in the spirit of the law? We want to move towards lower incomes during that transitional period and then outliers are totally inappropriate upwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u22	I do think that you should distinguish between the use of the transitional right, which, in my opinion, is legally established, and which, in my opinion, is the spirit of the law. If salaries rise when they should actually go down, then it is very important to talk about that. But I also think that this is first and foremost up to the supervisory board and to the clubs involved in the company. First of all, they have to talk about it, because I think it is the strongest and has the most support if it comes from within the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the last speaker. That's Mrs. Dijkstra of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. I do not really have so much more to add to what has already been said, but I will also stress for my part how I see it. Last year, RTL published that list of 50 drivers in healthcare that earned more in 2016 than the WNT standard allows. One in five top drivers would earn above the norm. The Minister replied in a letter, and I do have a question on this, namely whether it is true that all these directors are still covered by the transitional right. I'm asking because it means they can earn more than the norm. Will these salaries indeed be reduced further, so that it is a matter of time before these drivers also meet the standard? Mr. Chairman. It is also very important that Mrs Ellemeet has already asked a few times about the fact that a large proportion of the drivers, at least some of the drivers, have improved considerably over the past period while they were already above the norm. I don't think that's a good signal. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly what this is about, because it is ultimately the goal of dismantling. In order to save Mrs Ellemeet an interruption, I can add that by saying that I do not think it is a good signal, I also point out that there is a need to address each other internally, starting with the Supervisory Board. I'd like to know something about the rulers. In some cases, the CIBG has carried out further investigations. I would like to hear the outcome of this. I wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u25	This calls for an interruption by Mr Hijink. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u26	I would like to know from Mrs Dijkstra whether she can explain why a driver's salary in care is covered by the Standards Act, but not by the people who work in such a hospital. Can she explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u27	That is a very different subject from what we are talking about. As Mr Hijink knows, we have included in the coalition agreement that we seek to take on the employment of medical specialists. That seems to me to be a sufficiently clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u28	It is about paid employment for specialists, but of course it is also about other people, such as consultants and people who are hired. They are not currently covered by the applicable standards. Doesn't she think it should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u29	As I said, this is a different subject. The WNT still needs to be evaluated, no matter how the WNT2 continues to work. I would like to wait and see. I don't want to anticipate that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes. I'm gonna suspend the meeting a little bit more until 8:40.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u31	I'd like to give the Minister of Medical Care the floor to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Before I come to the answer to the questions, I would like to make a few general remarks. I stand here because the cabinet stands for a sober remuneration policy for top officials in the semi-public or public sector, including care. This is what we strive to achieve with the Wet norming top incomes, the WNT. Previous evaluations show that the WNT is well respected. The fact that not all top officials deserve less than the norm is the result of transitional law. That ends in 2022. By 2023, therefore, every senior official will be at the WNT2 level in terms of remuneration. I'm just saying, unless this Chamber makes other rules. Then there will be a new transitional right. But this is the regulation as we know it now with WNT1 and WNT2. In the letter from the Minister of BZK and myself of 22 February, you were able to read what we intend to do to prevent the avoidance of the WNT. I'll just briefly explain what's in that letter. The cabinet intends to release the link between the WNT and the WTZi, the Health Institution Admission Act, i.e. the WTZi authorisation. The main rule in the new situation will then become that the WNT applies to senior officials of legal persons providing care under or under the Health Insurance Act or the Long-Term Care Act. In addition, the Cabinet intends to modify the concept of "related legal person' in the WNT, so that the related relationship does not only function downwards, the subsidiaries of a WNT institution, but also upwards, the parent company under which the WNT institution is covered. The purpose of the current concept of "related institution" is to avoid the possibility of circumventing the WNT by partially assigning the senior official to, for example, a subsidiary not covered by the WNT. The proposed adjustment does not result in the partial appointment of the senior official to the parent organisation of the WNT institution leading to any circumvention of the remuneration ceiling. So much for the main line of the letter you received on February 22nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u33	I do have a question about that. As I said earlier, it is very good that the subcontractors are going to be dealt with. Just critics, experts, already say: there will soon be many other possibilities to avoid these new rules, for example through the distribution of profits in e.g.. How does the Minister view that criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u34	Let's get back to two interruptions, we've got two rulers in two. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u35	First of all... The majority of the questions will really have to be answered by me, if I have listened carefully to the speakers. So I may be speaking a little longer than my colleague Ollongren. Although, of course, I don't quite know... Mr Hijink's question concerns other constructions. That's a really different subject. We are talking tonight about salaries and WNT standards. In addition, there is the theme of profit distribution, profit distribution and profit ban. That is also a very interesting theme, which is much written about in the coalition agreement. We have promised the Chamber separately that we will come forward with a letter on this subject in the spring. So I don't think it's a good time to answer these questions right now. It's about the WNT tonight and later on on that other subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mr. Hijink, the Minister is asking to stay on the subject for today, but you will have the opportunity for the second part of your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u37	Of course, that answer is easy, but you can't see these things apart from each other. If a driver becomes subject to the Standards Act, this is good news. But if such a director is also a shareholder of the same e.g. and lets himself pay a large profit with care money, he may be covered by the WNT, but still has a large salary of care money. So you can't see these things apart. I want to know from the Minister, no, more than that: I want him to do something about these e.g. constructions and to exclude them in the care sector. I want to hear that he's just gonna make it impossible for the law to be bypassed, which he says is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u38	The e.g. structures and the profit criteria are really addressed in that other debate. But not tonight. Tonight we're talking about top salaries. That's really different from profit distributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr. Hijink, the minister says he doesn't want to respond to it right now. I think we should respect him in that. Or would you like to spend your second interruption on this? I think the Minister's answer will then be the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u40	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u41	I had a hunch. Then Mr Markuszower. It's your chance for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u42	Maybe in line with my colleague from the SP the following. The Minister can say that this debate is only about the WNT standardisation, but I think that this Chamber is wide-ranging. I hope that the people behind me now nod. I think that this debate is about the gray culture of top drivers in the care sector. This includes evasive structures that can be made, I say to the Minister. There are also declarations of winter tyres for top drivers when they go on private holidays. This includes visiting dolphins in Paramaribo or flying a private plane. All of our taxpayers' money and the bounty money. I think that if we limit this debate to WNT standardisation, it will be a very easy debate for this minister. So I would like to hear from this Minister whether he is prepared to take a broad approach to culture, including the issue of WNT standardisation that has already been mentioned. But also the whole culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u43	As a subject for this evening, we have been given the theme 'Salaries of top drivers in health care'. That is exactly what we have prepared for. I would like to point out that a number of groups in this Chamber have also said that they want to talk about profit, profit distribution, profit bans, constructions and tricks. That's another theme. If you had mentioned this on this subject, I would have given exactly the same explanation, namely: salaries can now be paid, the profit letter comes in the spring and then it will have to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with what I think is at the heart of the letter of 22 February. We want to tackle the WNT's evasive structures. The main rule is that the WNT applies to legal persons providing care as referred to in or under the Zvw or the Wlz. I would like to comment on some of the questions that have been asked. First of all, Mrs Ellemeet's. Does the Minister agree with her that the salary of top executives should not be increased if there is a right of transition? We passed a law. There's transitional rights in that. You must imagine that it is possible that a salary has been agreed before the WNT entered, for example in 2010, so really far in the past. This is a theoretical example; I have no practical example. Imagine that in a contract agreement like this, there's an increase in salary. It's possible. I don't know an example right now, but it could be. In that case, the conversation between the driver and the supervisory board of that institution may not have advanced further than that appointment simply has to be kept. We cannot agree with all of you on this, and you can comment on it, but it is the contractual agreement that has been made. Thus, although we have made an agreement on WNT1 and WNT2, including the transitional right, there is in practice the possibility that there may be an increase in salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mrs. Ellemeet for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u47	I believe that the Minister is ignoring something very important, namely the purpose of this new legislation, of the Top Income Standards Act. The aim is to bring the salaries back to a maximum salary corresponding to that of the executive. There's a reason we agreed to that. We believe that public money should be spent on public purposes, the care in this case. There may be a nice salary for the caregivers, but it should not be exorbitantly high. That is the purpose of this legislation. We have indeed made a transitional arrangement. The aim of the transitional arrangements is to respect and ultimately to terminate existing agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u48	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u49	My question is: it does not fit in with the spirit of this law and the aim we have all set to allow for increases on top of these hugely high salaries. It may well be that it is allowed by the letter of the law, but I would like to ask the Minister another question. What's his moral judgment on this? How can he explain this to people who think it's already inexplicably high salaries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u50	Transitional law is part of the law. So it is not only in the spirit of the law, but it is also in the letter of the law. The transitional right is part of the law. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u51	Very disappointing! Because the Minister is now completely ignoring the fact that there are caretakers who have hugely high salaries that we have all said should go down. We may respect the salaries for a period of time. But increases in these high salaries are inappropriate and inexplicable to people. We can at least appeal to these caregivers that it is undesirable and that this is sending the wrong signal. Doesn't the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u52	I think that, on the basis of debates such as we are having this evening, this kind of discussion will be held between the supervisory boards and the director concerned. And that's where the conversation belongs. At the same time, we have agreed on transitional law and everyone should comply with the law, not only with the spirit, but also with the letter of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u53	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ellemeet has also asked another question. Is the Minister prepared to take a zero measurement by 2023, so at the time of the expiry of the transitional arrangements? I think "zero-measurement" here is a crazy word. The CIBG is the institution that was previously mentioned by one of you, looking at the annual accounts. We will do the same in 2023, once the 2022 annual accounts are in. If the rules remain as they are, I assume that all institutions will comply with WNT2's agreements. If we make other agreements in this Chamber on the basis of a profit letter or WNT3 or whatever, and there are new transitional rules in this Chamber, it is a new situation. I'd like to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mrs Ellemeet, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u56	There are still a lot of care drivers far beyond the WNT standard. We may not have expected that, certainly not the increases we are now talking about. Then it is not surprising that I ask for direct control by the CIB at the time that that transitional arrangement is completed. That's my question. Are we going to monitor very closely the implementation of the agreements we have made with each other at the time that this transitional arrangement has been concluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u57	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u58	I used the word "zero-measurement." I think that is a crazy word in this regard. If Mrs Ellemeet would like to know whether the law, which applies to all of us, will be complied with by everyone in 2023, I would be happy to ask the CBG if it is. I'm assuming that at the time the transitional right expires, everyone behaves in accordance with the law as well. That's a little cautious, but it sounds like a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mrs Ellemeet smiles a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u60	I am pleased with that. What will the supervision of the WNT look like? I think I answered that question. That is the essence of the letter of 22 February. Then there is Mr Markuszower's question from the PVV: who finished what? That's how I wrote the question. I find that difficult to answer. It gets a little easier when you ask if there are any UMCs where more is earned than the WNT standard. I can answer that question very well, because it's in the Official Journal. A possible deviation from the WNT standard is permitted in accordance with the law. A decision must be taken and this decision must be published in the Official Journal. If I am correct, four such exceptions have now been published in the Official Journal. Other requests have been rejected. I have already addressed the question of how it is possible that salaries have risen during the WNT period in response to questions put by Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u61	Are you through the answers, looking at Mr Markuszower's input?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u62	That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u63	Then I give Mr Markuszower his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u64	I do not know whether this is an interruption, because I do not think I have received a proper answer to my question as to who has finished what. The Minister replied to the question about the exceptions, but not to whom what has been phased out. We have agreed that from 2017 the salaries should be reduced to the standard of a ministerial salary. The question is whether in 2017, so last year, there were drivers who had finished. If so, who and how many? Can the Minister provide an insight into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u65	I can't do that yet, because we don't have the annual accounts for 2017. It is now March and most of the annual accounts are still to come. The CIB, the registry authority, shall supervise this. Moreover, all that information is public. Perhaps that is the most important part of why we are discussing this subject tonight. These are all public records. It's all in financial statements, so the CIBG has a good overview of that. They are all verifiable data, but not for the year 2017 if the annual accounts are not yet available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet, you just had a very brief interruption, so I'm giving you a chance to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u67	A question from me hasn't been answered yet. In his letter, the Minister indicated that in some of the cases where there were still questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u68	I shall come back to that later on to Mrs De Vries, who has asked the same question. I put it there in the folder. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u69	Would you mind if the minister over there later...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u71	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u72	Then questions were asked by Mr Hijink of the SP Group. For me, staying in the folder is the question: what institution do you mean when you write "private" or "close to private" in your letter? The Council of State has previously advised us on this point: what is too much private, what should you think about? It concerns, for example, catering and cleaning activities in the care sector. For example, it concerns a taxi company that occasionally transports a patient from hospital to home, so such private activities. The Council of State has allowed the concept of "private" to apply to such activities. Mr. Chairman. Then towards the PvdA Group, Mrs Dijksma. She asked about subcontractors under the WNT. Are all the tricks poemed with that? Do we have a closed system? That is, of course, what we are trying to achieve. That is why we are preparing this amendment, which I have just explained in the introductory words. We want to have a definitive system. But some caution suits us, too. I think that when we discussed WNT1 and 2 we also thought that it was well arranged, and here we are. So I understand your question very well. I think that, on the basis of the bill, I am lost for a moment when we submit it to your Chamber, but I thought it would have to be at the end of this year to judge again exactly whether the bill is intended for what we want tonight, namely that we make tricks impossible. Mr. Chairman. Are you talking to the sector about salaries higher than the WNT standard? That is also a question from Mrs Dijksma. The answer is yes. We are constantly in conversation with the healthcare sector about the WNT, for example with the Dutch Association of Supervisors in Zorg en Welzijn and the Dutch Association of Care Directors. Those are two different associations. These kinds of themes, reward, governance, are discussed with them. Not only in the past, but we will continue to do so in the run-up to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u73	That seems to me to be a good thing in itself, but that is, of course, mainly an administrative discussion about measures that have already been taken, which are still coming. I was concerned with another point, namely the morality of the care sector which needs to be called into question. You shouldn't do that with the branches, but you should do that with those who just drop there. Then my question is: does the Minister or does the Minister also address these directors with his colleague? That might help a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u74	In other words, it is the same question as Mrs Ellemeet asked. I believe that the directors and supervisors can be called upon to comply with the law. That's what I'm gonna hold them to: compliance with the law. And the law also includes transitional rights. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u75	In the end, I don't understand why the Minister needs it now to hide behind the law a little bit. I think we agree, and you can like that transitional arrangement or not, but that is indeed the law. But this is also about those situations where people just really don't care about that law. You yourself are working on a bill to deal with these types of legislation. I say it as flat as you can. Then what is wrong with you not only preparing a bill, but also inviting it and saying: because you are not sticking to what is intended, we now have to come up with a new bill, and that is really not right? What is the problem of sending such a message to those who are personally concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u76	The question then arises: what is the purpose? I think the intention of the WNT was very clear, namely to curb salaries, including a transitional right. The intention of that law is very clear. That clarity has also been provided to the sector. When we are preparing a new law, it is also very logical that we should discuss it with the sector. But the intention is very clearly established in the Top Income Standards Act, namely standardisation, including transitional law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mrs. Dijksma, your second interruption? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u78	Then I'm gonna spend my second interruption on it. What it's about is that we don't have to spend every time looking for another legal measure to stop the next trick. If I understand the Chamber correctly, and I hope you will do the same, then tonight you will be asked not only what you intend to do as a legislator, but also what you intend to do as a politician. What is your moral message to the sector? That's really about more than: I have a new bill, we have to talk about it and that might get to you. Then it is also about the intention with which you are putting forward that bill and the warning that it implies. In any case, I feel that I would like to see a minister speaking on behalf of my group who is also delivering that moral message and not just as a director telling us what this new law is going to look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u79	I would do a great deal to get your group on my side. So I am going to do my best to prepare that in that bill in a good way together with Mr Ollongren and to tell this Chamber what the intention of this bill is. Let there be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mrs Dijksma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u81	In order to win the hearts of Mrs Ellemeet, myself and many others, it is also necessary, I think, that you should not only act as a legislative expert there and explain what that law looks like, but that you, as a politician, should also make a moral assessment of those who are constantly working in the sector to avoid all that legislation again. If you are going to find something and condemn it, then you have taken a step with it. I'd love to see you take that step tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u82	I put Mrs Dijksma's words between my ears. We'll make that bill. It is up to you to assess when discussing this bill here in the Chamber whether we are committed to it with sufficient force, energy and conviction. We will. Then I come to the questions asked by the CDA Group. I have already said a few things about the substance of what we are going to do in the introduction. Mr Slootweg's question was, if I have noted it correctly, whether small-scale organisation of care leads to lower salaries. I do not see any connection between the size of a care institution and any exceedance of the standard. However, a number of criteria are taken into account in the remuneration ceilings for senior staff and youth assistance, taking into account the complexity of the institutions. As the complexity of the care institution increases, the maximum remuneration standard of the senior official also increases. Healthcare institutions are classified in five classes according to the criteria. For the highest class, the maximum remuneration at a care institution is as high as the general WNT ceiling. For the other classes, the maximum remuneration in the care is lower than that general WNT ceiling. So much for that subject, Mr. Chairman. Are the high salaries from RTL research part of the transitional arrangements? Yes, that's the case. Perhaps a little more precise: following the reporting of RTL News, the CIBG has started four investigations. Two of these four studies were completed with a positive result after a short-term study. The conclusion is that the WNT has acted in accordance with it. One study found a minimum difference of about €40. That difference will be clarified and, if contrary to the WNT, will be eliminated. There's one more investigation going on right now. This raises the question of whether an increase in remuneration is appropriate in the transitional legislation. The aim is to complete this research this spring. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet. Mr. Chairman. There was another question from Mr Slootweg about the role of the Supervisory Board, which also has a steering role. He asked: is the Minister willing to talk to the Dutch Association of Supervisors in Health and Welfare? The answer is yes. I'm in conversation, and I'm gonna stay in conversation with this union. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs De Vries of the VVD Group asked who checks whether the accountant is doing his job properly. I understand that Mrs. Ollongren has that on her list. So that is a cliffhanger; that question will be answered by Mrs Ollongren. Can we deduce whether the law is being properly observed? In addition to what I have just said to Mr Slootweg and Mrs Ellemeet, there are therefore four further investigations, two of which have been completed with a positive result, and there has now been acted in accordance with the WNT, and indeed my view is that the law is being properly observed. That is in the direction of Mrs De Vries. Finally, Mrs Dijkstra asked whether all directors of RTL's research were covered by that transitional right. In the meantime, I have replied. The CIBG has further investigated a number of situations. I have also replied to that. Also on the question of how drivers can earn more in transitional law, I have tried to give an answer on the basis of that fictional example, I think it is a fictional example. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you. There is one more interruption by Mr Hijink, I see. Apologies, Minister. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u84	I asked another question about the medical specialists. He doesn't want the minister to be part of the WNT. If it's up to the SP, they're gonna be paid and they're gonna be covered by the WNT. Why doesn't he choose that? And why does he choose to seduce again to become an employed person, when we've really seen for years that that doesn't work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u85	That's really a separate discussion. That's what I've been trying to explain. In the coalition agreement, we said that there are two preferred options for specialists: whether employed or in a participation model. That is what we shall be discussing in greater detail. That is really a different subject from the WNT standardisation. So it's also wider. It's not just the wage variant and then max WNT. There is also another possibility: the participation model. This has to do with profits, e.g., constructions. That's a really different subject. That is why I thought I had answered Mr Hijink's question adequately, but I can almost see from his face that this is still not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u87	But can we agree on the ultimate objective that medical specialists in the end should also be covered by the WNT, by any means?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u88	I really think it is a different discussion, with another end goal as well. Because when it comes to specialists in paid employment or the participation model, we are having a discussion about equality: are the importance of the hospital and the importance of the medical specialist congruent? And why do we want that congruent to be? For the sake of the patient. I also find that an extremely interesting subject. I would very much like to comb that with you from a to z. But I really think it's a different subject from the WNT standardisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u89	The Minister will come back to it in detail. Thank you, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague for Medical Care and Sport has already addressed a large number of questions from his responsibility for care. Within the cabinet, I have the system responsibility for the WNT. Perhaps it is only for the first time, after that, that I have a few questions to answer, and I should also like to say, especially in the direction of Mrs Dijksma, that the top income policy of this cabinet is clear. We stand for a sober remuneration policy in the semi-public and public sector. It's about spending taxpayers' money and bounty money. The instrument to achieve that is that law, the WNT. It has been introduced in the past period. It's been rebuilt. I'm very motivated to enforce that law strictly. That is why I said at the beginning that I would like to check with colleagues concerned whether there might be implementation problems or possibilities of circumvention. I'd like to take care of it. That's why we're here today. Mr. Chairman. I come to a few questions that were more general in nature. Mr Hijink of the SP.............................................................................................................................................................................................. There is a transitional period, which first covers four years of maintenance and then three years for phasing out. The reason for including this in the law was also linked to European law. It means a change in people's rights, and you have to deal with it carefully. That's why it's so laid down in the law. It is then audited by auditors and supervisors. Zonet has already been mentioned as the CIBG, but also BZK, the Authority housing corporations and the education inspection are regulators who control all of this by sector. Mrs. Dijksma asked about the WNT3. Mrs Dijksma already knows, of course, because I informed the Chamber about this last year, why the cabinet decided not to do so. That was also announced in the government agreement and there is an opinion from the Council of State. We say that usefulness and necessity has not been demonstrated; he is not proportionate. You could say that here a mosquito is made of an elephant. It's about a very small number of officials and you make a law for a huge number of people. We thought that was undesirable. That's why that law isn't gonna happen anymore. Mrs. Dijksma asked if the system is conclusive. Mr Bruins has already dealt with this. If I pull it a little bit wider, we'll deal with it now in the care, but of course there's already been a round along the fields. There's actually no signs that there are other constructions and evasive possibilities. That's how it was written in the letter. In case they get there, I'm always willing and motivated to deal with them. Right now, I don't see them. Mrs De Vries had some questions of a factual nature, I would almost say, which were also about the annual accounts. She asked if it was clear enough in the financial statements whether the WNT was broken and why. The remuneration of each senior official of a WNT institution shall be shown in the annual accounts. It should also include a justification. That is usually the right of transition. For that purpose, the institution may use a accountability model, which shall specify how it can best be included. There is also an audit protocol for it; guidelines for the auditor to verify that the WNT data are displayed correctly. A great deal of attention has been paid to this accountability, including information on it, so that it becomes as uniform as possible and therefore clear and comparable. Finally, Mrs De Vries asked who then checks the auditors. The accountant is always the first-line supervisor. If there are violations that are passed on to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The regulators within the Empire work on this and then do their own research. They are also competent to enforce. I have just mentioned the authorities concerned: the CIBG, the Education Inspectorate, the Housing Companies Authority and the WNT Supervisory Unit of the Ministry of BZK. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you. This raises a question from Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u92	The reason for this debate was the research of RTL News in October 2017, which looked at salaries in 2016. In fact, the CIBG should have found that there were deficiencies in it, which were also found on further investigation. When would the CIB have noticed this for the first time in 2016? RTL News seems to have been ahead of the CIBG, but actually the CIBG should have found it by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u93	Let me start by saying that if good journalistic work is done, I am the last to criticise it. On the contrary, it's wonderful that that happened. I thought Mr Bruins also said something about the timing of things, because annual reports are often only ready a little further in the year. I could not give the exact answer to the question when, but it has to be structured and at the same time every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u94	I think it is important for the Chamber to know when the CBG reports on these salaries and the deviations that have been observed, because that is what we are talking about in this debate. So I would appreciate it if we could get some clarification on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u95	Fine. Let's find out. This can be answered by one of us in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u96	Thank you. I'll take a look at the room. I think there is a need for a second deadline. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Both ministers indicate that they stand for a sober remuneration policy. In this light, I find it really hard to understand that Minister Bruins does not regret the increases in salaries of the drivers who are already making such a huge amount of money in recent years. I find that hard to understand. I hear that from more colleagues in the Chamber. I have one motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one in five caregivers above the agreed standard of the Law on Standards deserves top incomes;]] [[Considering that seven out of the twenty-five most earning caregivers have significantly improved their salary over the last four years;]] [[noting that the transitional arrangements in the first four-year period respect previous remuneration arrangements and are followed by a three-year phasing-out phase;]] [[calls on the government to address the best-earned caregivers with a salary increase in the WNT transition phase to the undesirable signal that this increase is taking place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Hijink and Mr Dijksma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30111-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u98	I give the floor to the Minister to give his explanation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr. Chairman. The operative part of the motion reads as follows: "calls on the government to appeal to the best-earning carers with a salary increase during the WNT transition phase to the unwanted signal that this increase is taking place'. In fact, I have already expressed my opinion on this during the debate. I think everyone should abide by the law. I see no reason for addressing the best-earning caregivers when people comply with the law, not only with the spirit of the law, but also with the letter of the law. That's the way it's supposed to be in the Netherlands. This motion is therefore not recommended, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u100	Thank you. Then I also give the floor to the Minister of the Interior to answer a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, Mrs De Vries had a question at the end of the first term. The supervisors who have found infringements at first instance shall report them to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This ministry makes a total report, a so-called annual report on this. It will be released by BZK and will be released in December of the following year. Mrs De Vries spoke about 2016, so that means that in December 2017 the overall overview of all sectors will be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u102	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-9.u103	The vote on the motion will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank the ministers, the MPs, the two people in the public gallery.
