ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u1	We are now continuing the debate on the amendment of the Information Exchange Underground Networks Act, i.e. the evaluation of the WION and the court responsible for the regulation, Section 34745.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u2	We have six speakers from the Chamber and the first is Mr Weverling from the VVD Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under the Dutch soil lies a very extensive network of all kinds of cables and pipes that provides us with water, electricity and telecoms. Even though you don't see them every day, you can see that this is a vulnerable network. Last week, a large part of Amsterdam was powerless because an employee accidentally cut a wrong thread. That is a human mistake that we will not blame this good man, of course, but it shows what the consequences can be. It is therefore also a good thing that the cabinet wants to map out this mess of cables and pipes in Dutch soil in order, for example, to avoid power failures in the future as much as possible. The Wion is helping with this. The VVD does question the need for information about home connections. The network operators have an important role to play in mapping and maintaining this underground network. They have indicated that they can find themselves in the change of the Wion, but, like the VVD, also put their doubts about these home connections. The excavation of the house connections causes a lot of trouble. As far as the VVD is concerned, we should not create a situation where suddenly there is an excavator in your garden to dig open your neatly landscaped garden to map the house connection. Moreover, this is a particularly costly undertaking. Personally, I would prefer that money to be invested in, for example, the further roll-out of 4G in the outskirts or in the future 5G. Besides, if you accidentally hit a cable from a house connection, not all of a sudden the city is out of power, so let's not solve any problems that aren't there either. The VVD has therefore tabled an amendment to this law together with Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks. This amendment removes the requirement for system operators to be required to map all home connections digitally by 31 December 2027. At the same time, the amendment provides a basis for laying down detailed rules so that network operators and public authorities can work together to properly map all cables and home connections. In addition, the amendment confines itself to the cables that need to be excavated. In this way we hope that we will prevent gardens being unnecessarily dug up and that the grid operators will be unnecessarily charged extra. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Paternotte of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u5	Mr. Chairman. The purpose of the new Information Exchange Act underground networks, the Wion, was crystal clear when it entered into force in 2008: to prevent the damage of cables during excavation work and to ensure that people are so deprived of what brings the cables to their homes, offices and factories. After the law was introduced, we saw indeed a decrease in the number of grave damage, but after that there was an increase again. Two of the four declarations follow on from the economic and financial crisis. During the crisis, the number of new construction or reconstruction projects remained largely stationary. When the economy recovered, construction also repaired: more excavators at work, more risk of damage, more damage. Another explanation is the increased price competition between the fundamentalists, the parties that stir in the ground. After the crisis, there was fierce competition to bring in orders. If excavation is largely awarded on the basis of the lowest prices, there is less time to carry out the work. This means that not all precautions are taken, such as digging test slots and manual protruding rather than immediately digging with machines. We saw the result in 2012 at Nieuwleusen in Dalfsen, Overijssel. There, all of Ziggo's subscribers had to do it for an evening without the internet, television and radio, simply because the cable was accidentally taken away in excavation work. They'd just be a Molloot and miss the finale of Who's the Mol! It is therefore a good thing that this legislative amendment strengthens the procedure for precautionary measures, because these kinds of scenes should become a thing of the past as much as possible. Another point, Mr President, is the exchange of information on cables and pipes. On the initiative of the so-called'sourceholders' and customer consultation, the Land Registry investigated the future vision of the digging sector. Everyone agrees that information about networks should be available at any time and everywhere, and that this information should also be easily analysed and combined with other locational information. I have a question about that. This research has led to a new system at the Land Registry, the so-called KLIC-WIN. That system should be suitable for Wion notifications, where card information can be submitted according to the correct format, the so-called vector format. That will meet the latest European demands. That's very nice. But the latest pieces show that the new system would be ready at the beginning of this year. It just seems that it doesn't work quite optimally, because last Friday half of Amsterdam was due to an error in excavation work without electricity. There are rumors that the mechanic had held the map upside down with instructions. Whether that's true, I don't know, but I do wonder how this can happen with all the digital possibilities that are now available. After all, the economic damage of half a capital without power is considerable. Can the Secretary of State indicate if KLIC-WIN is already in operation? Are the services already running on KLIC-WIN? If so, how could it have gone wrong in Amsterdam with that huge power outage? Mr. Chairman. Finally. Several parties expressed concern about this legislative amendment. The current text would offer too much scope for interpretation differences, in particular on the inclusion of home connections. Those concerns were taken up yesterday, to my attention, in a conversation between network operators and the Ministry. That is good, but it still means that the text in the law is still unclear in many places at the moment. That is why it is very good that the VVD and GroenLinks have found each other. This is generally good, but certainly good in the context of this amendment. We therefore hope for a smooth incorporation of the Wion in the Wibon, but with this Secretary of State I have every confidence in that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u6	Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I can judge, there is overall satisfaction with this bill and all interested parties are largely in agreement. We too will vote in favour of this law. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the network operators' employees, who have made sure that over the last 15 years the security of supply has been as high as 99,995%. There are a lot of countries that really can't match that. Something goes wrong, recently in Amsterdam, as has been mentioned a few times. The rumors are plentiful, but at least it was accompanied by excavation work. The consequences were quite serious: two injured installers, a huge flare, museums that had to be evacuated and 28,000 households that had been out of power for quite a long time. So the necessity of this law has, I think, been demonstrated by it. I am very pleased that I was able to table an amendment with the VVD (34745, No. 10). For the President's administration, it might be good to say that this is the amendment on item No. 9 shall lapse. That was a very good amendment, but not as brilliant as my colleague's. I hope the Secretary of State will give a positive opinion. I have one other issue, which I would like to raise, namely that some municipalities are in favour of laying down the depths of the cables. This point was also discussed in the written procedure. The cabinet says that it is most expensive, or actually too expensive; the costs do not actually outweigh the benefits. I can imagine that very well, but I would like to make a point. We're talking about Amsterdam today, but a few years ago, there was this power outage at Diemen that shut down Tata. That was also a huge damage. There are perhaps a few places where it is important to map that depth as well, because there are so many people living there and there is so much activity that you have to deal with cables in multiple layers. I call on the Cabinet to take a look at this, not to regulate it nationwide, but perhaps there are some places where that should be done in addition. So this is more of a question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u9	Mr. Chairman, it's really not going to be midnight, as you predicted. But you may be used to committees, which they also call the committees of the 'quickly bitches'. It's not my words, you know. But that is not the way things are going here, at least, with this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u10	It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u11	We are very cooperative when it comes to homeland and people and entrepreneurs, as it turns out. Mr. Chairman. Everything has actually been said. I really agree with the story of the honourable Member of the VVD, Mr A. Weverling. I think he put it right. I also agree with his speech, which saves a lot of time for all of us, otherwise I'm going to repeat it for the stage and that's not gonna work. My group, too, is deeply concerned about these additional costs, the inconveniences and the nuisance for homeowners and the unnecessary costs and burdens on network operators. That's why we're saying, okay. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Weverling and Mr Van der Lee and also in favour of the legislative proposal. Perhaps you can help me with that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u12	I'm always here to help you. I call Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA considers it to be a good development that, following the experience gained in practice and the evaluation of the Information Exchange Underground Networks Act, the WION, improvement proposals are made in this bill. It is important that the effectiveness is increased to limit damage caused by excavation work. We have indeed seen a few examples of this recently. In view of Mr Weverling's amendment, I think that I too can skip a piece of my text. We were also concerned about potential high costs for owners, but also for the companies themselves, when mapping all pipes and home connections. That is why I will also advise my group to vote in favour of the Weverling amendment and, of course, in favour of the law. We had another question about the depth of the location, which Mr. Van der Lee was already dealing with. In the written input we, as CDA, have asked a few questions about this. The explanatory memorandum states that the burden of requiring that depth be indicated does not therefore outweigh the benefits. That is why that suggestion has not been taken up. The Secretary of State indicates that other ways than making mutual agreements to provide reliable data and to obtain more certainty about the depth of the situation are currently limited. As a CDA, we wonder how we can promote these mutual agreements. Does the Secretary of State also expect new techniques that will allow us to map this depth at lower costs in the future? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u14	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u15	Mr. Chairman. We have a good network and good network managers in the Netherlands. We therefore have a good security of supply. That network needs to be protected from excavation damage. That's why this is a good bill, but it's not a perfect bill, because from the industry it's rightly noted that it's out of proportion if you have to map those last meters as well. In Groningen we sometimes say: the church should not be higher than the tower. This is prevented by the amendment tabled by Mr Weverling and Mr Van der Lee. So that is a good amendment. If that is accepted, we have a good end product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you. I'm gonna have to think about that proverb, so I'm gonna suspend until 9:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u17	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a law that you think in advance is about a lot of technology, but at the same time it has a huge social relevance. It is a law on the exchange of information between land stirrs, clients and network operators. The purpose of this law and its tightening is to prevent damage, power failures and sometimes even worse suffering such as human lives. In 2017, there were over 588.000 excavations. More than 33,000 of them suffered excavation damage. The total repair cost was just over EUR 25 million. In 2016, there were 27,000 less excavations, but more than 1,300 damages, which combined cost almost 27 million euros in repair costs. So we're talking about something. In order to prevent damage caused by excavation, this law entered into force on 1 July 2008. The law introduced a process for reporting excavation work and exchanging information on the location of cables and pipes. The operation was evaluated in 2012 and the Chamber was informed about it at the beginning of 2013. The evaluation has shown that all stakeholders, both public authorities and industry concerned, consider the Wion as a good tool and that some adjustments to the experience gained can increase effectiveness in practice. Thank you for the agreement already expressed by a number of Members. Then three more questions have been asked. Mr Paternotte asked about the state of play in adapting the KLIC-WIN information exchange system. When will it be operational? At the moment the Cadaster has largely finished the system and it can be tested for some time. In order to carry out this test, the cooperation of the parties for which the system is intended is necessary. The Land Registry has requested cooperation, but there are parties waiting for clarity on the time when the legislative amendment enters into force. At the moment, the Kadaster plan is that the system will be available on 1 July 2018. After this date, it will take about six months to complete the transition to the new system for all ground-breakers, grid operators and parties supporting them. The new system is expected to be fully operational on 1 January 2019 and will be phased in until then. Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Van der Lee of the groups of the CDA and GroenLinks asked another question about the exchange of information on the depth of cables. At the moment, the new KLIC-WIN system already provides an opportunity to include information about depth. However, depth is not always accurate. This is due, for example, to subsidences. Ground ruders and grid operators are in consultation on this and look at new techniques. Pending the outcome of this consultation, information on cable depth is not part of the mandatory information to be provided. However, it can be added in the long term on a voluntary basis. In addition, the law provides that if it turns out that a cable cannot be found, the network operator will provide support to find the cable in question. Mrs Van den Berg asked how to get the location of cables in the picture. There are new methods to do that, for example the ground radar that can find the location via sound waves or a detector that captures a special short signal transmitted by cables. I shall now turn to the amendments tabled by Mr Weverling and Mr Van der Lee. A number of spokesmen have also asked questions about this separately, ensuring that network operators are rushed at high costs. This is not the case. I am convinced that the deadlines set are feasible and reasonable and that not all cables and pipes need to be dug up. I think it is important for a careful digging process that good information about cables and pipes is available. I am prepared to continue talking with the sector about how to determine the location of connection lines. This amendment clarifies the sector that does not need to be dug unnecessarily. On the other hand, it does give me the opportunity to set conditions. Then we come back to what I started out with, namely that this is a good thing given the importance of this law and of careful exchange of information on everything that is in the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u19	Then what is your opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u20	"Judge Chamber" is that then, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u21	Well, well, well. We didn't expect that. That is the amendment to item No. 10. Was that your contribution? Then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u22	Then there is only the question of whether the Secretary of State can tell us how the power outage in Amsterdam last Friday was caused.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u23	Do we know that officially yet? We don't know that officially yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u24	Then we wait with excitement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u25	Then Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u26	I have one more question about the depth of cabling and the like. The technique the Secretary of State has just cited is some kind of ultrasound. They can do that three-dimensionally by now, can't they? They're very capable of determining the depth, aren't they? The Secretary of State says to one can't do it, that it's difficult. On the other hand, she says that they have that equipment with those sound waves and that everything can be pictured three-dimensionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u27	That's right, just not always accurate. In addition, especially in the part of the Netherlands where I live, there is quite a bit of soil effect, so at some point it just lies in a different place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u28	So much for the first term. Is there a need for a second term? I'd better get off the list. Mr. Weverling? That is not the case. The same applies to Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Lee. Mr. Graus? Mr. Graus does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u29	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u30	Oh, neither does Mrs Van den Berg nor Mr Moorlag. So much for this debate. I thank the Secretary of State for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-13.u31	We are voting on Tuesday on the law and on the one amendment. So far. I'm gonna close the meeting tonight.
