ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on a banished hate image that is staying in the Netherlands. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I actually want to keep the number of interruptions to two. And interruptions go in two; so do you. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf as the first speaker and also as the applicant for this debate on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last October, Belgium deported imam El Amaouch to the Netherlands because he was classified as a state hazard. The man has a Dutch passport, so that was easy for the Belgians. After being expelled from Belgium, he simply continues his activities in The Hague, with sermons. In addition, his son is in youth detention in Belgium because he called on Muslims to exterminate all Christians. What will these ministers do as soon as Amaouch's son arrives on Dutch soil? 'Cause they might be deported by then. Mr. Chairman. State-dangerous, then we'll be back at Amaouch ourselves. You don't get a stamp like that in Belgium. El Alami Amaouch has called for an Islam critic to cut off the tongue and legs. That is a brutal appeal to violence and therefore punishable by our law. Why hasn't this man been arrested and prosecuted yet? I'm asking the Minister. Should the Minister have any doubts about this, he can at least embrace our initiative proposal to introduce administrative detention, which we are busy working on, because it will enable us to put in place preachers of violence like him immediately. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Islam wants to subdue the West. Belgium and the Netherlands are as many enemies and as many targets for Islam. Amaouch is like Fawaz Jneid, which the debate next time is about, a quarter of an hour maker for Islam. According to the Minister, is this imam also a danger to the Netherlands? And, if not, why not, I ask both ministers. In addition to the Balie Terrorist, the Hacarmel terrorist, the Al-Fourqaan mosque and many other mosques with their preachers, but also returned IS terrorists, extravagants and many others, the minister now has quite a few individual cases to monitor with his services. And don't forget the caller Fawaz Jneid, who can simply be prosecuted in the Netherlands by means of the criminal law in force. For if an imam designates another Muslim as a disbeliever and even an enemy of Islam, then that is a call for violence, because apostasy in Islam is the death penalty. The imam has power of expression because of his stature and function and then his followers know exactly what to do. The Minister must give clear, clear answers and a clear vision here in order to satisfy us; that did not happen quickly, I think. Mr. Chairman. All these preachers of violence and terrorists act in accordance with the Islamic manuals. They call for violence, encourage violence, use violence or have done so. As far as we are concerned, that is where the border lies. The call for violence, that's where the border lies. We must also note, after the whole list I have given, that these are no longer individual cases. It's a collective, the Islamic collective. Therefore, Mr President, I will conclude our appeal: continue Amaouch for inciting violence, then denaturalise him and throw him out of the country after serving his sentence. And to begin with, close all the mosques that offered him a stage, even after that eviction. Then close them all; I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister finally prepared to do so, or is he, and also the other minister, remaining silent under the guise of "I am not going to deal with an individual case"? And will the Minister have Jneid prosecuted? It's possible. And then my last sentence. If the Minister does not want to take action against Amaouch and not against Jneid, there is only one term that applies to the Minister of Justice and Security, which is: sheer unwillingness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u4	Mr. Chairman. Last week in Question Time, we also talked to this Minister about the Salafist preachers who incite violence and hate. And in the Chamber, the Minister was certainly following our questions: he hated it, but he couldn't do anything. Then he said something else in front of the camera. He said it might be necessary to restrict freedom of speech. Mr. Chairman. That raises a number of questions for me. Why did the Secretary of State in the Chamber say anything other than in front of the camera? And what happened in the three seconds he had to walk back from the hall when he walked into the collected press? What explained his turnaround, I'd like to know from the Minister. This situation calls for decisive action, for the best lawyers. No improvisation in an already very complicated debate. However, during oral Question Time, the Minister undertook to come up with a letter in which he addressed the impossibility or possibilities of addressing radical preachers. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether he can comment on the following points in his letter. Can the Minister assure us that he does not intend to interfere with freedom of expression? This is unlike what he said in the media last week. What possibilities does the Minister see for extending the ban already in force? What are the possibilities to prevent these hate preachers from spreading their message over the Internet? Can their Facebook account be deleted? Or can they be forbidden to write to certain people? Can they get a digital area ban? What civil measures does the Minister see as possible? The freedom of religion also means that people are free to lose their faith. How is the Minister going to make people feel all that freedom? Mr. Chairman. Freedom of expression is limited by the ban on hate speech and the call for violence. Criminal statements are not unrelated to the context. We know that in the strict Salafist doctrine of apostasy there is the death penalty. So if a salafistic imam implies that someone is apostate and is called an enemy of the Muslims, there is a clear call and a clear threat. Fawaz's words do not trample along the borders of the rule of law, but hit the rule of law hard in the face. Our country of freedom, our country in which you may love whom you want, believe in what you want and who you want: that country and that freedom we must defend, with everything we have in us. This also calls for a minister to whom we can rely and to whom that freedom is in good hands. I hope he doesn't take that job lightly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the justification that he is poison for our Muslim youths, the Belgian Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration recently withdrew the residence permit of hate imam El Alami. To say the least, there is also a part of our concern: the poison for our Muslim youth. The preacher of Salafism was then expelled from Belgium for the sake of state security, after which he moved to The Hague. In Transvaal and the Schilderswijk there is no strobe in his way. On the contrary, I understand that he has plenty of time to do so; he is just getting benefits for his family. He doesn't even have to worry about his income. In any case, his family consists of one radicalized son, who called upon all Christians to be killed. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about a preacher who called in to cut off a poet's tongue and legs. He drove with the Algerian who at the time in Toulouse in a Jewish school killed the children and the adults. And as it turns out, we're powerless. This man glorifies terrorist violence. And so we can apparently do nothing more than keep an eye on him, according to the mayor in The Hague. Isn't he just as dangerous to our Muslim youth? It is well known that the CDA is not at peace with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u7	I hear Mrs Van Toorenburg from the CDA say two different things in two sentences. I would like to clarify that. At first, Mrs Van Toorenburg said: he calls for violence. In addition, Mrs Van Toorenburg talks about the glorification of violence, which means that we could not do anything. But with the call for violence in the first sentence, we can do anything, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u8	Apparently not, and it's been looked at. This man can, therefore, also freely glorify in our society the violence that someone has done to another. That is exactly why, as a CDA, we say that freedom of expression is not unlimited, and certainly not with regard to vulnerable young people. We must therefore ensure that the glorification of terrorist violence is punishable. I hope so that the PVV will also agree with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u9	That is not an answer to my question, because it was about the first part. Mrs Van Toorenburg just said loud and clear: that is a call for violence. That can be dealt with in criminal law. Mrs. Van Toorenburg says "apparently not," but it's just in the law. So why not just bet hard on that? Why does she want to focus instead on taking away a piece of the freedom of expression of all Dutch people? So I'm really talking about the first piece. Again, I hate violence, too. We all know that: the PVV hates that. And we hate the calls for violence, too. Then take that, 'cause we'll be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u10	I think the PVV colleague would very much like to stress that the PVV wants to do everything against these kinds of hate preachers. But the moment there is a proposal that really makes a bit of sense, because you can secure someone and actually take measures, the PVV is not at home. So the story we have just heard here sounds nice and nice, but in the end we have made a proposal to ensure that the statements made by this Salafist preacher can actually be addressed. But it looks like the PVV suddenly says: no, no, no, all mosques have to close, but this gentleman shouldn't be behind bars. Mr. Chairman. I think it's obvious that the CDA is not at peace with this. Time and time again, we feel the need to continue looking for ways to protect our democratic rule of law and vulnerable young people within it. Fortunately, for example, we have been able to successfully argue that the penalty for hate-sowing is doubled and we are already working on the countless critical questions about our initiative proposal to criminalise the glorification of terrorist violence. Isn't that exactly what it takes here? That's what I'm asking the Minister. If that's not the beginning of an answer, then what is? Is a restraining order gonna be the solution? I am looking at the debate that we are going to have about the hate image that is a danger in two neighbourhoods. We're gonna put a restraining order on someone like that, and then he can just move on elsewhere. We must therefore once again note that glorifying terrorist violence and insulting hate-sowing leads to pure commotion and ultimately nothing. As far as we are concerned, freedom of expression is not unlimited. I am very curious about this minister's letter, in which he deals with the other hate image that is spreading corruption here. Mr. Chairman. If we really want to do something serious about this imam, we will eventually have to think about more than just a few administrative bans for a few neighborhoods. I also know that locking someone up can never be the cure for all evils. I also think we should do more with the young people who are vulnerable to this. But if we don't start taking these measures, we won't stand a chance against this kind of dangerous talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u12	Mr. Chairman. In my short-lived, sad career in this Parliament, I've seen a lot of hate images pass me by. The temptation is great to continue on the old track with the help of the....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But I'm saving that powder; I'll keep it dry, because we'll talk to the minister about the hate-sowing image that thus addresses the mayors Aboutaleb and Marcouch. In addition, the Minister could be ready very quickly when it comes to this imam, I call him El Alami, because he has not yet sown hatred in the Netherlands. So in that respect we are indeed empty-handed and have to do with the material that is available to make Mr.Life miserable. Because we must ensure that the Netherlands does not become a refuge for resting imams. That's what it's starting to look like. So what to do? Make him miserable! I'd almost say bully him out of the country! Do something! What can we do? The Minister sent a letter on 20 November. This also raises the question of what to do. Because Mr El Alami is Dutch and we can't do that much. Well, then, we'll just take the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. The Minister appreciates this. But this imam has never faced that before. Isn't that someone you need to get right into the turds? It's just a temporary law, but well you have to do something. You can make him miserable. And this man is hateful like the pies. He's a recidivist. He's a recidivist. He has built up that reputation, even though he has not threatened or defiled anyone in The Hague, as far as I know. Only his physical appearance, his stature and his state as a recidivist make him in the Hague domain, where he apparently resides, a great danger. Surely we cannot think that the expulsion from Belgium caused him to take his mental luggage when crossing the border? That's not what I want to do. Sir is steeped in hatred towards people for whom he poses a great danger. So that could already be a measure. That is a measure which the Minister himself, I do not want to say, is always getting away from behind the curtains. He says: we do have something, and that is the measure. What else can we do? You're only gonna get what you can because you're gonna have to make Mr. life miserable. Come up with a Belgian legal aid request! In Belgium this man has never been prosecuted, while in my best opinion the reports that have reached me from Belgium, including through the press, are so alarming that you almost think: those Belgians do not allow it to come to a trial, because that only gives crooked faces within the community. They send him to the Netherlands, because he is Dutch. Let them figure it out over there. Secretary of State Francken was really jumping that he had managed to get Mr. to the Netherlands through administrative law. Now he sits here and thinks, "What could happen to me in criminal matters?" Well, we can do something about that, because Mr. is Dutch. He gets a social security allowance for that, but that makes him vulnerable too. Because as a Dutch citizen, he can be criminalized for crimes committed abroad. And there's quite a few of them. What did the Minister of Sedition think, Article 131 Criminal Code? As a Dutchman in Belgium, he was guilty of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u13	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u14	He's called in criminal offences. In fact, the Belgians said he was involved in the murder in Toulouse where four victims were killed in a Jewish school. So there must be Belgian criminal records showing that. Moreover, the Belgians say, he has certainly worked on recruiting three people for Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u16	That means he's been guilty of recruiting for foreign military service three times. I would just like to give the Minister some examples of how he can make life very difficult with the help of Dutch criminal law so far. Does the Minister intend to orientate himself on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u17	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u18	Thank you, Madam President. We live in the Netherlands in a democratic constitutional state. Freedoms of religion, expression and association are essential to our democracy. In our rule of law, such freedoms are protected for everyone, but they are not unlimited. They find their limits when the freedoms of others are compromised, when people are inciting hatred or violence or when security is at stake. The Salafist preacher El Alami Amaouch was expelled last year for the sake of state security and now lives in The Hague. I ask the Minister to answer the question in which the assessment of what constitutes a threat to national security in Belgium differs from that in the Netherlands. Last week we also talked about the statements of the imam Fawaz Jneid, about which a debate is about to take place. The National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator states in his latest Threat Image that it is possible that preachers of violence with the use of the characterisation of "waste" incites self-direction. I ask the Minister: why is this not a question of inciting violence? It's words that have meaning, in a certain context. I ask the Minister: in the context of radical Salafism, is it clear that this poses a threat? Last week, the Minister indicated that he is thinking of measures to adapt criminal law to deal with violent preachers. I'm asking the Minister if he can give us a direction. What exactly is he thinking about? He will come back to that with a letter, but he may already be able to lift a hint of the veil. I would also like to hear more, and more, than in the letter we saw in December, from the Minister what instruments we now have to prevent those who have a Dutch nationality from spreading their extremist message. Are these instruments sufficient or should they be used better? Because it feels unsatisfactory as it is today: hate preachers who come from abroad can be denied and dealt with access to our country, but people of Dutch nationality who carry out the same messages are not enough to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u19	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u20	Thank you, Mr President. The case we are talking about today, namely the hate preacher who has been evicted by Belgium in the Netherlands, played a while ago, but the discussion is, of course, unabated in the light of Fawaz Jneid's statements about the mayor of Rotterdam. My group is extremely concerned about the statements made by such preachers and the effect they may have. Freedom of expression is a great right, but does not, of course, give the right to insult people without limits, to sow hatred or to discriminate. It is not for nothing that these limits are laid down in our criminal law, which also confirms and expresses our values and values. First of all, I have a number of factual questions for the Minister of Justice. Is it true that Mr El Alami is now staying in the Netherlands? Why exactly did Belgium turn it off at the time? What were the reasons for that? Is he currently a threat in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. As far as D66 is concerned, we are fighting terrorism with repressive and preventive measures. This means first of all that we must ensure that young people can participate in our society, so that they are as vulnerable as possible to statements by such hate preachers. In short, offer opportunities and prospects for a job and education, so that the chance of radicalisation becomes as low as possible. But that also means focusing on preachers who may incite hatred or violence and try to limit their reach as much as possible. As far as D66 is concerned, first of all, there is a task for the Public Prosecutor and the judge to assess whether someone is acting within or outside the limits of the law. I say this because last week the Minister told the press that he wanted to amend criminal law to silence these individuals, while he was even more lenient in oral Question Time just before. I ask the Minister of Justice: why the difference in attitude? And what exactly would he like to amend in criminal law? Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: D66 also thinks that we should do everything we can to counter the effects of these kinds of individuals. At the same time, D66 is reluctant to restrict precisely that freedom, in order to silence one individual. Don't we actually give ourselves to the evil ones? Isn't that the ultimate goal they're pursuing: to destroy our freedoms that we're so proud of? And is it actually effective to do it that way? I'd like a response from the Minister. Like other colleagues, I am curious to see the Minister's overview of what other measures, including those from the countries around us, are possible to deal with such individuals rather than restricting the freedom of all of us. I therefore ask the Minister when we can expect this promised letter. I would also like to hear from the Minister how we can prevent this kind of hate preacher from pinging between different countries because they are being evicted from one country to another. It may sound tough and effective, but in fact you saddle your neighbors with the same problem when you turn people off. Moreover, and that concludes, the scope of such measures in the digital age is very limited, because there are hardly any digital borders. Can the Minister explain what possibilities he sees for tackling this problem at European level and how he thinks that hate preaching can be effectively addressed online? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u21	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u22	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing today the Minister's letter of 20 December on tackling extremist speakers, such as the preacher El Alami. The discussion at Question Time last week has already demonstrated the limitations of some of the measures proposed. The most prominent measure mentioned in the letter is to increase the penalty for hate sowing from one to two years. But will that really make a difference? More important than the penalty is that the prosecution should be prosecuted. I would therefore like to know from the Minister how many people have been prosecuted over the last two years for hate-sowing and how many people have been actually convicted. In the case of Fawaz Jneid, the Minister has agreed that the prosecution has not taken place. Apparently, it is not enough to suggest that there is hatred. However, I think that is a somewhat defeatist attitude. Has the Minister also taken into account that in the test the panels sometimes shift to reality and that it is useful to encourage it precisely because of the legal form? Is it possible, I simply ask the Minister, that the judge should check whether certain statements have negative consequences for the functioning of democratic institutions, such as mayors, and the judge considers them criminal on that basis, i.e. because of the attack on our rule of law? Can it, and if it isn't, what would it take? According to the Supreme Court, it matters who makes the statements. Speakings of politicians are judged slightly differently from those of a swim instructor. Is this because of the formal position of politicians in the legal system, or because of the impact they can have on society? If the latter is the case, can this special responsibility not apply to religious predecessors? In short, shouldn't the judge just use it? Instead, the Minister said that perhaps we should talk about restricting freedom of expression. I think that's too big a remark to just leave it hanging. What is the Minister's position on this? He's looking very indignant right now. I was not present at Question Time myself last time, but I did hear it on camera and I heard it there. Freedom of expression is a core value of the Netherlands that we are proud of. And yes, it is a difficult right because it also means the freedom to shock and distress but within limits. I fear that a restriction of our freedom will affect our Dutch identity and that it will not then solve the problem. Because people who are as keen as the people we are talking about will remain within the new law, but with the same disastrous effect for the people they regard as apostates. That brings me to the final point. Does the Minister think that freedom of religion is also restricted when others decide when to be a good believer? So we are talking not only about freedom of expression but also about freedom of religion. In short, let us not go down the road of restricting freedom of expression, but rather work for strict enforcement of the law that we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u23	I'm struggling with what GroenLinks wants anyway. If he can freely whip with someone who kills children, just pour it over our young people and go on with it every time and he says that poets should cut off their tongues or cut off their legs and continue with that, does GroenLinks think this is okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u24	To be honest, I find it a little disgusting. You think I'm okay with that. It's done in Belgium. As far as the point you are making is concerned, I think that the judge should assess whether there is an inciting of violence. If it is, it must be punished. I'm very clear about that. I keep saying here that I think it is very important for the judge to assess whether there is an inciting of hatred or violence. Then that must indeed be punished, because it is important that we uphold the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u25	I think it's a little easy. I am glad that Mrs Buitenweg is equally appalled about it, but I am really struggling with it. I have, of course, also looked closely at it, but such a statement as the glorification of terrorist violence is not currently punishable in the Netherlands. So you can just dabble with all the violence that someone else commits. I hear very well what Mrs Buitenweg is saying about how to protect our democratic rule of law. Shouldn't it be the case that in extreme cases you want to protect our rule of law from glorifying terrorist violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u26	You're going to make a proposal about it, and we're going to look into it. I remember a proposal from Mr Donner in 2006. I have read the Acts on them, because I thought you would come up with them, and then there were comments like 'the suffering of the Americans after their lives is not comparable to the victims in Chechnya'. For example, it was unclear whether such a thing would be understood as glorifying violence. I therefore believe that we should be very careful about what is being criminalised or not. When you make that proposal, we will look very carefully at it, but your suggestion that we call for violence would not take it seriously did bother me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u27	I would like to support Mrs Van Toorenburg on this point. We have had a lot of debates over the last few years about glorifying violence and whether it should also be made criminal. Many parties, including GroenLinks and D66, said: no, we really shouldn't, because that is a restriction of freedom of expression. Then we see that in a number of cases there can be no action against people who are precisely against it and not very strongly inciting it, but more indirectly. There can be no action against it, and it is said that this is unsatisfactory. Are you saying that such a situation as it is at issue here amounts to freedom of speech and that you should be happy that this can be done? Or do you find the way things are going to be unsatisfactory and should we look to tighten up the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u28	I think there's always a time for sanding. The problem with freedom of expression is that it also gives the right to shock and alarm. That's hard. Then the question is, where exactly is the border? When do we think it will harm our rule of law? I doubt whether this falls entirely within the scope of hate-sowing or inciting violence or, as the Supreme Court has said, inciting intolerance. That's why I'm saying we should let the judge judge that. You say you want to move on. I am particularly looking for a larger ring of protection for, for example, drivers, as in the case of the mayor. An attack, because that is how I see it, on Aboutaleb, for example, makes his work very difficult and is therefore, in that sense, an attack on all of us, because it is an attack on the rule of law. That is why I made the proposal, as I just said to the Minister, to have the judge test whether we can find certain statements unacceptable because they ultimately affect democratic institutions. That's a new thing. Is it also possible to test statements in this way? So I am not looking at a way of restricting freedom of expression, but I am looking at whether you can introduce new grounds, such as undermining the democratic rule of law. That's my quest right now. I would very much like to hear the Minister's comments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u29	That is indeed a fair question when it comes to certain institutions and administrators, but we also have a lot of citizens who are vulnerable and can be threatened by statements that actually mean that apostasy of Islam can be dealt with by force. Then what protection do we offer these citizens, including through criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u30	Which one do you propose? Look, my point is... I don't want to be easy either... I think that this requires a very careful debate. My point is that I think there is more possible, including legal form, within the current law. I am very reluctant to restrict rights as we know them, but I think there is more legal form possible. That is why I am asking why we should not continue to prosecute these people. It goes too far for me to just shuffle something out of my sleeve in the vein of "well, let's make this even criminal." I have just told Mrs Van Toorenburg that I do want to look at the law, but that must be clear when you are punishable or not. When glorifying violence, it's not entirely clear to me when you cross the border. That must be clear in criminal law. That is why I believe that this requires a very careful argument. To be honest, I am waiting for Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal to be adopted. Yes, that is already under discussion, I am sorry, and I do not know what we are going to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u31	I can see that the discussion is rather widening. I thought we were talking about what to do with Mr. El Alami, but now it's about Article 137d about hate-sowing and freedom of speech. But Mr. El Alami hasn't hurt a fly on Dutch soil, if I understand correctly. May I infer from the speech of the spokeswoman of GroenLinks that she still feels like it, perhaps, if it is possible to prosecute Mr El Alami here? She's looking for the judge's judgment. How is she gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u32	You have just asked the Minister how he intends to do that. I'll wait for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u33	That's why I'm asking you. If you also ask the Minister whether, with Belgian legal aid, he would like to see whether the prosecution of foreign cases can be carried out here, then these very theoretical considerations are not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u34	Well, sir, you just had your normal speaking time twice, so I thought that would be enough. I think the Minister has just heard that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u35	To convince you, too, but that needed some refinement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u37	Madam President. Tonight we talk about imam El Alami Amaouch. Unfortunately, he is not the only imam and not even the only spiritual predecessor who seeks the borders of our rule of law. The letter we are discussing today is from December 2017 and has turned out to be a paper tiger. After all, there are still hate images preaching in the Netherlands, including in The Hague, and, if a land ban doesn't help, on Facebook. 50PLUS has a number of questions about this imam and about the Minister's letter. What's going on with Imam El Alami? Does he still have a Dutch passport next to his Moroccan passport? Is it true that he was looking for a spacious house in the Schilderswijk after Belgium shut him down and has he now got that house? I would like another explanation from the Minister of the last paragraph of the letter. It states that freedom of religion is limited where freedoms of others are compromised, incited to hatred or violence or when security is at stake. The Minister writes that an individual assessment is made on a case-by-case basis. I would rather read that freedom of religion is restricted by the laws we lay down here. That sounds firmer and does justice to the agreements on religious freedom that we have laid down in the Constitution. It is therefore clear for the enforcers. This should not be done on a case-by-case basis, as the Minister suggests. Systematic approach seems more appropriate. Religious freedom, of any religion, stops if it is contrary to Dutch law. How is that maintained? If this minister is struggling with the treatment of hate-sowing, is he in the process of countering calls from extreme preachers who run counter to our values and standards? I urge the Minister: are the limits of religious freedom seriously guarded and maintained and are they structuralally applied, for example in strict Christian schools where homosexuality is still being taught as a mortal sin? Is that allowed if the choice of school was made by the parents or is it time to enforce the law? If I read the Minister's letter correctly, then it is time to be clear about our years of struggle, careful laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 50 years ago, Gerard Reve was acquitted in the donkey trial. The way in which the writer wanted to make gentleman's love with a mouse-grey donkey reincarnated God was not blasphemous, because the judge said not to be able to judge which God's images are correct and which are not. This process was an important moment in the development of freedom of opinion. It also serves a social purpose that transcends the feelings of individuals, even if they are hurt. The debate tonight is about the freedom of hate preachers, such as El Alami or Fawaz Jneid, the self-proclaimed imam who spoke about the apostasy of Mayor Aboutaleb, who in his view would be an enemy of Islam. The pronunciation of this Salafist was not a religious image of God but a condemnation of a person. And, Mr. Chairman, you may, too. In our free country everyone can say that another is not a good Christian, not a good Hindu or a good Muslim. But when expressing a conviction against a person, the context is also important. It is a question of whether statements which the speaker may know put another person at risk or incite to violence are permitted. Then I'll join the Minister. A fine picture was not last week in Question Time, where the Minister said that Jneid cannot be charged, but the mayor of Rotterdam, as a result of this man's statements, needs extra protection. It was not very nice either that the minister here in the Chamber said he was in favour of freedom of speech, but that that was something else in the back of the hallway, that stricter laws were needed to restrict the freedom of speech. Mr. Chairman. We must be very aware that this also restricts religious discussion and restricts our freedom of speech. We do exactly what hate preachers like to see happen. I would much rather have hate preachers targeted. This kind of statement is not only about the message but also about the messenger. We're dealing with dangerous Salafists here. I have three questions for the Minister. Why doesn't he think it makes sense to prosecute this Fawaz Jneid and to have the D.A. investigate whether the statements he made in the context of a Salafist organization are threatening or not? I would also like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to see if there is any possibility of a case against El Alami, who is apparently present in The Hague today. If this man in Belgium is a threat to national security, it seems rather strong to me that this will not be the case in the Netherlands. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister the following question. We have banned hate preachers, such as Jneid, in The Hague. Apparently, these hate preachings are so dangerous that they cannot be pronounced in certain neighbourhoods. But why can they be pronounced on Facebook, on the Internet? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u41	Mr. Chairman. How do we put extremist hate preachers, such as El Alami Amaouch and Fawaz Jneid, a stick between the spokes, so that they are no longer able to spread their message of hatred and their calls for violence? The cabinet says it wants to do everything in its power. That is good and the new measure is to double the punishment for hate-stowing from one to two years. It seems logical to me that this legislative amendment should be put into effect as a matter of urgency. I'd like to hear from the Minister of Justice how quickly. The most desirable way of dealing with hate preachers is to persecute them. The Code of Criminal Law offers a wide range of possibilities. Insulting is a criminal offence, sedition is a criminal offence, hate-sowing is a criminal offence and the recruitment of the jihad is also a criminal offence. Are these hate preachers really not guilty of any of these crimes in any way? Can't the D.A. prosecute, or doesn't the D.A. have the nerve to prosecute? As far as the VVD is concerned, the Public Prosecutor's Office is abandoning all speed and hate preachers, wherever there is a small chance of being convicted, are being prosecuted. It is high time that the statements of these so-called imams were reviewed by judges, because that is precisely how we confirm the standard that we do not accept this. The fact that this could lead to an acquittal at some point is not even a problem. We have to accept that and then we have to try again, because these kind of guests keep packing and spreading their message in new ways. Why is the Public Prosecutor's Office so reluctant about hate preachers? Isn't it high time the Minister of Justice urged the Public Prosecutor to prosecute?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u42	Whose point is it that this spokesperson of the VVD so clearly indicates that hate-songs need to be tackled firmly? Previously the VVD was always of the opinion that it should not be addressed at all. In any case, the list of what this man has said shows that glorifying violence, glorifying terrorist violence, is not a criminal offence. Wouldn't the VVD want to take this step too? So they've already gotten rid of hate-sowing. In the end, this must be punishable and even heavier. But isn't the time there to try someone for glorifying the most serious form of violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u43	If anyone calls for violence, it's just a crime. It's already a criminal offence. Hate-sowing is a criminal offence. So the question is not whether we need to deal with even more criminality by means of further measures. The question is why the D.A. isn't prosecuting. Why don't we put this to the judge? Dutch judges can make an excellent assessment of this. Let them judge. My estimate is that judges will just prosecute these hate preachers. The fact that the CDA very much wants freedom of expression to be the victims of these kinds of hate speech preachers is a little troubling to me. Because that's how we surrender our freedom. Then those preachers have exactly what they want. This will reduce the freedom of our society, and that is exactly the kind of society that these people are advocating. I don't want that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u44	It was the VVD who said that hate growing shouldn't be punishable. Fortunately, the VVD is now in a position to remain so in the Code of Criminal Law, because we have not given the VVD colleague a chance to do so. But it's important that we move on. We must prevent the poison not only from being spit on young people in The Hague because someone here has been banned, but then someone in Gouda can do his divine work. That's hypocritical, isn't it? If someone is so dangerous that he, also from the VVD, cannot say this kind of thing in The Hague, why in Gouda? By the way, the VVD is in favour of an area ban because someone is a danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u45	I just mentioned four serious crimes that, in my opinion, can be used to prosecute these kinds of people. It is a little strange that, if these kind of preachers are still not prosecuted because the prosecution does not take that step, we are going to make further laws, which will ultimately victimize freedom of expression, which is really a great asset in this society. You don't have to. They can be prosecuted and they must be prosecuted, with all the power that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u46	Back to the last few sentences before colleague Rutte was interrupted. Did I just hear him say that we should go to lawsuits against people and we should just keep doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u47	At the moment when such extremist, dangerous and socially undermining messages are being promulgated, the prosecution should not be reluctant to prosecute. If in general there's really nothing going on, then you shouldn't bother the D.A. with that. But I cannot imagine that Mr Azarkan would be happy with the language that is used in this kind of preacher. If it is, we have another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u48	Mr. Azarkan believes that we have institutions in this country, including the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security and a minister with a judicial power behind him. They both note that until now he has done nothing that is criminal and that he is going within the law. But they're watching him. Now, do you think we should sue that person and still go to trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u49	I've been very clear about that. By the way, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security knows a lot about terrorism, but he is not the one in this country who assesses whether a case is criminal or not. That's up to the state's attorney's office. And in the end, the Minister of Justice can push a little more on that. In view of everything that is happening here in the factual complex and looking at the law, I find it sincerely incomprehensible that there is no prosecution. If it is not already a criminal offence, then it is so close that it is high time that it was brought before the courts so that it could make a ruling on it. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u50	In the trias politicians we have just thought together that MPs should not decide who is being prosecuted. I honestly don't understand. I do not understand why the Minister's conclusion is that nothing has been done and that it is just within the law, and that you say: I want to be prosecuted anyway. I just don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u51	I also believe that MPs have the task of expressing the feeling of the people in the country, what they think and what they think, looking at the law. The law we make ourselves. When I look at that law and everything in it, I find it incomprehensible that there is no prosecution. I'd like an explanation on that. I also really think that the Minister should push more firmly on the prosecution. And we also have this task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u52	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u53	I'd still like to clear up a misunderstanding. You may find that incomprehensible, but some things happen in the Chamber that I find incomprehensible, such as the actions of a minister and so on. I am concerned that you should say: I actually think that there should be prosecution. So let's keep going to court against these people, even though we know that's not gonna work. I just don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u54	The point is, there's no prosecution. If there is prosecution and the judge makes a ruling, then we also know what the law stands for. Then we also know how far the law goes. We don't know. I am convinced that he is indeed a criminal offence, that the judge will judge and that there will be a conviction. You never know for sure, but I have a lot of faith in that. But precisely because we don't prosecute, we don't know where the boundaries are. I don't like that. I think that's a bad signal. That step should be taken. Mr President, I shall continue. Of course, hate preachers also have rights. As far as the VVD is concerned, they are entitled to a VIP approach, a very irritating person approach. It is high time that hate preachers were disturbed and thwarted in all possible ways, by holding them over and over again, by checking them extra, by perhaps checking their tax returns extra, you name it, by imposing land bans, by tackling the stages that give them an opportunity to spread their hate message. This was already requested in an approved motion tabled by my colleague, Mr Tellegen, in April 2016. Also interesting is to cut the benefits of these preachers. They receive benefits, at least Mr El Alami Amaouch and perhaps Mr Fawaz Jneid too. Mr Jneid still does not speak Dutch. That is perhaps a reason for the Minister of Social Affairs to have a good conversation with the municipality where these kinds of hate preachers live about cutting their benefits. Mr. Chairman. I therefore ask both ministers whether they are prepared to work on this comprehensive "very irritating person" approach for hate preachers, so that everything is actually done to make it impossible for them to work in the Netherlands, because it is very necessary to keep our country safe from the poison of hatred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u56	Mr President, thank you. We are speaking here today about Belgium's exiled preacher El Alami Amaouch. Belgium has condemned this preacher because he is a danger to society. In answers to parliamentary questions, the Minister states that there are no grounds on which the preacher can be denied access to the Netherlands. However, the Minister is extremely attentive to the behaviour and statements of this person. My question to the Minister is: have there been any behavior or statements between the letter and today on the basis of which this preacher can be prosecuted? Mr. Chairman. In connection with what we are discussing today, last week a wonderful scene took place. It was about the statements of another imam, Jneid, about Aboutaleb. No one knows exactly what he said, but there was something in De Telegraaf. To think of that as serious journalism, my party goes too far. We asked the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, Mr Dick Schoof. Who told me this imam was acting within the law. A nasty message, to explain as a threat, but within the law. The Minister was also questioned. The minister also said: this gentleman moves just within the law. What do you do? Then you ask the Minister to amend the law. It shows our obsession with Islam. In choir, the MPs asked for tailor-made legislation. A kind of reverse legislative process: see who you want to punish and then change the law so that this becomes possible. If you don't know better, you'd almost think that some right-wing parties want separate legislation for Muslims. Then something wonderful happened. A turn came from the minister. In the Chamber, the minister said that the imam was not a criminal offence, but ten minutes later, in front of the camera, he said he could investigate whether the law could be amended. But, he said, that does mean that it is at the expense of our freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u57	Is the mayor of Rotterdam a Muslim?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u58	That's not for me to judge. I suppose so. He turned that in himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u59	After the statements of this Mr.Jneid, the mayor of Rotterdam needed extra protection. Mr Azarkan says that laws are being made here against Muslims. No, here a mayor of Rotterdam, who claims to be a Muslim himself, is a proud Muslim, is protected from radical Salafists who preach violence, hate sow, especially within the Muslim community. So would Mr Azarkan take back that laws are being made against Muslims here in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u60	No, Mr. Azarkan won't take that back. I didn't say laws were being made either. I used a different quote. I suggest that you check in the Acts to see exactly what that has been like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u61	By not taking that back, Mr Azarkan has placed himself outside the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u62	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u63	The National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator was also cited by Mr Azarkan. Has he also read in the latest Threat Image that the most decisive terrorist threat to the Netherlands is the jihadist threat? Does he agree with that? Is it not entirely logical, with such an analysis, that the danger towards the approach of jihadism and jihadist or salafistic preachers is seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u64	That is fine with me, but I am very surprised to have to explain this to you, because we are doing so on the basis of our democratic state law and our Constitution. If the conclusion of the NCTV in this case is that these are jihadist organizations, then you will also have to acknowledge that the NCTV in this case has indicated that this gentleman is acting within the law. So that's also true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u65	If you have a threat picture and you see in it that the jihadist threat is the most serious threat to our security that we are dealing with, it is perfectly normal to wonder if your instruments are sufficient. That's a perfectly normal question, isn't it? It is therefore perfectly legitimate for you to ask yourself whether our laws are sufficient in time, when certain questionable statements are being made that we are genuinely concerned about whether it is not oil on the fire and whether it will ultimately cost people lives? That's not an obsession, is it? That's just serious work, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u66	Once again, I think it is very sensible that we should look from time to time at what instruments we have at our disposal. Here's what I'm gonna say. We must realise that the statements made by this imam, however annoying and threatening, must of course never lead us to restrict the freedom of expression of 17 million Dutch people. The question is, are you willing to sacrifice that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u68	Mr. Chairman. I was at the miraculous turn of the minister, who followed the questions of the MPs and the walk to the fries desk. In the chamber, the imam wasn't punishable, ten minutes later, he said on camera that he would investigate if it was still criminal. I'm surprised. I would like to hear from the Minister how it is that what he defended strongly turned out to be different after those ten minutes. I'm gonna close with what I just said. Do MPs and minister realize that a non-punitive, unpleasant sermon by an imam leads us to consider restricting the freedom of expression of 17 million Dutch people? Let that go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u69	From an unpleasant, according to Mr Azarkan not criminal sermon of an imam we could actually look away. 'Cause, yeah, the D.A. looked at it and said, "not punishable." But the fact is that the mayor of the second largest city in this country must fear for his life and be protected because he is threatened. What does Mr Azarkan think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u70	Let me quote my colleague, Mr Groothuizen: that is extremely worrying. I have indicated that I think it is a nasty text that does not help us as a society. As the Minister said and as the NCTV said, it is within the context of the Constitution. I can find anything about that, but in the end, the DA's office is about prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u71	So we have a statement from a hate imam, which puts the mayor of Rotterdam, Mr Aboutaleb, away as a renegade. He needs to be protected because he's actually threatened with death. That's the situation. And Mr. Azarkan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u72	No, that's not the situation, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u73	There has been a sermon which has at least led to the need to protect Mr Aboutaleb. Then let's just leave it at that. Mr Azarkan then says 'that is extremely annoying' and goes on to the order of the day. As a Member of Parliament, as a resident of this country, is it not his job to see what we can do about it and how we can ensure that people who are in the front line in this country for safety, such as the Mayor of Rotterdam, can safely cross the street, that that mayor does not need to be protected and that his family does not need to be protected? Mr. Azarkan thinks so, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u74	I'm sure you'll like that. I think I saw you peeing with a number of MPs last week about who could tell the Minister that something had to happen. I followed that from a distance. The Minister has indicated that this is unfortunately within the law. Let me give you an example. The last time a hate preacher was acquitted... I'm talking about Geert Wilders... was in 2011. Unlike this preacher, he was prosecuted by the prosecution. Then the statement was "I'll remind you, Mr. Arno Rutte "that this hate preacher, Mr. Geert Wilders, is moving within the border. Do you know what Mr. Rutte's answer was, our Prime Minister? "The PVV is a reliable partner for me." That was his answer to the question. At that time nobody said: let us see where this message, which is annoying for a lot of Dutch people, especially Muslims, leads. That message has led us to see that arson is taking place in mosques. The number of incidents at prayer houses has increased tenfold. 300 reports of this have been made. I never hear about that. I don't hear you saying we should do anything for that group of people. If I ask for a debate, I can only hear you say that it is an individual case. I have already done this five or six times, but you will say: Mr Azarkan, it is an individual case and the police are investigating it; there is no reason, because the investigation is still ongoing. You use all kinds of beautiful terms, but it's so hypocritical what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u75	I note that the Mayor of Rotterdam must fear for his life and that Mr Azarkan is making a game of it and turning it around to Mr Wilders. That says all about Mr Azarkan. It also indicates to what extent we can still take him seriously as a parliamentarians in this Parliament. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u76	It says a lot about you. The expression is: if you have butter on your head, you shouldn't stand in the sun. You're gonna be standing in the sun. You're selectively outraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u77	I just wanted to come back to a point that Mr Azarkan made earlier, namely that everyone here is in favour of restricting freedom of expression. You have followed the debate here. I think it is important that you also make a distinction. Mr Rutte, who has just been so hard on you, has also made it quite explicit that he is not in favour of freedom of expression at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u78	You mean the restriction of freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u79	Sorry, sorry, sorry, Mr. Rutte! You are not in favour of restricting freedom of speech. So I think you, Mr. Azarkan, are pretending to have a huge enemy against you. In doing so, you do not distinguish what the opinions are. Then you're gonna put yourself on the opposite side of it. I think it would be good if you acknowledged that there is not such a broad group here that is in favour of restricting freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u80	I acknowledge that I have failed you and Mr Rutte. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u81	Finally. You just gave the example of Mr Wilders, who was not convicted by the judge. Do you think it would be wise to prosecute more often to know exactly where the boundaries are? For you referred to Mr Schoof and you said: he did not judge that. But of course he's not a judge. Are you in favour of encouraging it? It's obviously up to the state's attorney's office, and the minister's watching over it, of course. But do you think that, as a Chamber, we should say that there could be a more active attitude to prosecute more often?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u82	In the light of the various tasks, roles and responsibilities we have, I am really reluctant to do so. I felt that the Minister here last week indicated with a great deal of force that that opportunity is virtually zero. In the past, when I went for my work on the advice of the national attorney, I found that I should be rather careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u83	But in response to the threats of Sylvana Simons last year, the prosecution said that it would really intervene actively and prosecute in the event of discrimination and the preaching of hatred and violence. Then you thought that was a good thing. Don't you still think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u84	That really depends on the feasibility of the matter. Look, in the case of Mrs Simons, 12 or 15 people have been convicted. Then I guess that's good. Last week we saw that the hatred against DENK caused someone to get 180 hours of community service. That gentleman did that on Elsevier's website. Again, I think it's good to look at it on a case-by-case basis, depending on the specialists. I do not think that Members of Parliament should say whether we should do so in the case of discrimination or hate speech, as if it were property offences. I find that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u85	That is good, but I will remember this for the next time that this debate will undoubtedly be different from yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u86	I don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u87	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u88	Madam President. It is right that we should be discussing this subject this evening because it is extremely unsatisfactory if, in this case, an imam is regarded by the Belgian Secretary of State as a danger to society, because he would glorify terrorism, and such a person can then simply choose and work in the Netherlands. What's the deal with that? Someone is expelled from Belgium for state-dangerous activities. Nobody wants the Netherlands to be a refuge for hate images, right? We don't want oil on the fire here. That is just the issue that is now under discussion. You can see that the coalition agreement has promised a much stricter approach to jihadism. Every effort is being made to prevent hate preachers from being offered a stage. It is also said that we want to double the punishment for hate-sowing. My question is: how will these agreements be implemented in the coalition agreement? And would that help in situations like those we're talking about today? It has already gone beyond the limits of freedom of expression. Let us be honest, if we have provisions in our code of conduct regarding the criminalisation of sedition, of hate-stowing, of calls to violence, then that is simply restrictions on freedom of expression, but rightly so, because there is a greater need for the protection of human lives, of public order. It is not so much about restricting freedom of expression, yes or no, but more about the balance that you choose here. We have to ask that question over and over again on the basis of situations that arise. We have seen a lot of incidents lately, in recent years, where it is found unsatisfactory that criminal action is not being taken. My question to this Minister is this: is it because there is a very restrictive interpretation of the existing provisions on sedition, hate-sowing and calls for violence? Or is it the case here that simply glorifying violence is not sufficiently covered by this sentence? Years ago, together with the CDA, we called for the Code of Criminal Law to be strengthened. It is either one or the other: it is either covered by the existing penal provisions, but then it must also be dealt with, or we say 'no, it is just outside' and then the question is perfectly legitimate whether this tightening-up in criminalising the glorification of violence is not a necessary additional measure. I think it would be valuable if the Minister could also, in the context of the letter announced, make an explicit reference to the limits of those existing criminal provisions. That can really help us in this debate. Mr. Chairman. To what extent can administrative measures be taken to protect national security in other Member States with regard to the administrative capacity of the Temporary Law to combat terrorism? I tabled an amendment to it at the time. That wasn't necessary, because it would already be covered by that law, but does that help us in situations like today? Finally, administrative cooperation with the European Member State of Belgium. How are the possibilities used in this case to look together with Belgium to see how people who were apparently active in Belgium and who have made wrong statements can be dealt with? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u89	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm just going to look at the directors and see if there's any need for a short suspension. Twenty minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting until 5:10.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u90	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are having a debate on the case of El Alami, but as I said last week during oral Question Time, and I stress it again, the cabinet is very much concerned in general with preventing extremist speakers from spreading their intolerant and extremist ideas. The coalition agreement therefore states that this cabinet is doing everything it can to prevent these extremist speakers from being offered a stage. In this context, I think it is good to start with the question put by Mr Groothuizen of D66, but also by Mrs Kuik, Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Azarkan, namely what exactly happened to my position last week. Last week, in both the Lower House and the media, I emphasised that additional criminal measures are affecting our fundamental rights as quickly as possible. I did so after literally expressing my frustration in the Chamber at the fact that, unfortunately, criminally, the crime of hatred was failing. I was literally talking about the'rejectable expressions' of that imam, Mr Fawaz Jneid, and I would like to repeat that here too. However, I have also indicated that I would like to stress here once again that the adoption of additional criminal law measures is a consideration that we must discuss very carefully. I have said outside and inside the Chamber, and I would like to repeat this: I would like to talk to your Chamber about this and have the debate with you, and I will do so on the basis of a letter to be sent in advance. Moreover, I will supplement that letter with answers to the four questions that Mrs Kuik asked me this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u92	Mr President, I really do not understand why the Minister has come to the conclusion that he said the same thing here in the Chamber as three minutes later in front of the cameras. Because here in the Chamber he said, "Yes, I hate it, but I can't do anything." And in doing so, he joined the words also expressed by Schoof, our National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism. In front of the camera, he said: yes, I think we should do something, even if it is at the expense of freedom of speech. Those are two different things and they're not the same. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u93	I have asked for the transcript of the Acts in response to the criticism that came about and I have read back what I thought I would remember, namely that I did say in the Chamber that 'unfortunately these statements are not covered by criminal law'. I said, "We need to realize that if we were to tighten up that description of the crime, we would be restricting our own freedom of expression in such a way that we were to restrict people"... and so on, and so on. Then I say, "That's the devilish dilemma that's going on here." I said that a few times down the road. It was a fairly long Question Time on that one issue. Because it is shorter than a 40-minute debate, it may be a little closer to each other in condensed form, but I would like to stress to Mrs Kuik that the spirit of what I said outside the Chamber is really the same as what I said in the Chamber. I have drawn attention to this point and have therefore begun to read it in the Acts and in the transcripts of what has been broadcast on the radio and on television. And once again, through the chairman, I say to Mrs Kuik that I share her indignation at the expressions. I made that very clear last week. I also share the frustration with all those who are frustrated by the fact that someone really moves along the border of the rule of law. I think Mr Rutte just said it that way. I think we're looking in the same direction there, too. Finally, I would like to say that Mr Azarkan says that I would have said outside that Mr Fawaz Jneid would be a criminal offence. Anyway, I didn't say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u94	Context of words is important. The Minister said to my questions: I hate it, but I do not see any criminal means of prosecuting Fawaz and if we wanted anything, it would have consequences for freedom of expression. And that was the point. In front of the camera, he said: yes, I think criminal measures should be followed, even if it is at the expense of freedom of expression. That context does make a difference. It is a very different tone, a very different approach from what we have seen here in the House of Representatives. I still don't really understand why the switch: the powerlessness in the Lower House, the so-called tough force for the cameras. I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u95	I have the transcript of the broadcast of Met het Oog op Morgen here for me. I have just said very clearly in this regard, and I have also referred here to the fact that freedom of expression is a very great asset in the Netherlands. A little further down I say: I would like to talk to the Chamber about how we can get rid of this kind of talk and, in particular, about impunity. That's what I said inside. I can imagine Mrs Kuik saying: you said that in a few short sentences. I can confirm that, but that also has to do with the fact that we are having a debate here. However, I would like to stress that I have said in the Chamber, and that is how I concluded, that I am going to give you this letter in which I will analyse how criminal law is not sufficient at the moment. I shall just use those terms for a moment, and at the request of Mr Asscher, I will also give you an overview of what has happened in recent years on this point, and finally I will discuss with the Chamber how we think this should look in our criminal law if we think that something needs to be changed. I would like to emphasise once again through you: I have certainly attracted the criticism that has come to me about this, also through the cameras. I checked both of them, and I really believe that I have just given the same message to both of them sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u96	I cannot escape the impression that we are dealing here with a minister who improvises. On question after question asked by the MPs here, the Minister said: it cannot, it cannot, it cannot, it cannot, it cannot. That was the final message we left with. It is not for nothing that a letter has been asked for: because we did not accept it, because we wanted to have all the best lawyers on the table, because we wanted the opportunities on the table. It was the minister who said here "I don't see the possibilities" and then, less than three minutes later, before the camera said "I want to deal with this, I'm going to figure this out but it is at the expense of freedom of speech." You have to put one transcript next to the other transcript and not run it in such a way that it suits your own context, because that is not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u97	I really put those two transcripts next to each other. I think you are failing me if it is suggested that I improvised answers. I have here, as the attendees can remember, included Article 137d and paraphrased the description of the crime. I have also just looked at all aspects of the matter as they come again today in the context of El Alami. In any case, I took that oral question very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u98	Finally, on this point. Otherwise it will be a repetition of questions and a repetition of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u99	I cannot help but notice that the camera minister was a lot tougher and clearer where he actually testified of impotence, not knowing. In a debate so sensitive, so important, in which our freedom is defended, I do not want a minister who is improvising, who is shouting something different in the Chamber than in the camera. I hope it will not be a repetition of moves in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u100	I would particularly like some clarification on what the Minister just said. He was talking about additional measures. They may affect freedom of speech. He comes with a letter in which, as I understand him, he may take those measures. Does the Minister intend to take measures in that letter which restrict freedom of expression? My group would not be in favour of that. That is my question, especially because he says: I know criminal law is not enough. But I think a lot of people today have just said: shouldn't you just have that checked by the judge? I would like to clarify these two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u101	In the meantime, I will answer a few questions that have been asked by Members. Firstly, it is clear that I am not taking any action. This is ultimately a legislative process for which there must be sufficient support in the Chamber. This must then be adopted by the Second and First Chambers after a detailed consultation. I have pledged to the Chamber to analyse the deficit, as I call it, from the description of the crime on the basis of the statements made by the imam who was then discussed, Mr Fawaz Jneid. The word 'deficit' already means too much judgment, but it is at least about the difference between his statements and what is then punishable. I have also said that, and I would like to stress this here again, I did warn myself of this matter in January, because the word 'defaitistic' has also fallen today. I decided in January to extend Mr Fawaz Jneid's land ban for six months. I explained in the Chamber last week that this is a rather special measure in the international context, which we introduced into our law, and I think it is very good that we have it. There was some discussion about this at the time, and I said: the fact that someone is getting a ban is an enormous social signal. Of course, these people can put things on the Internet very horribly, especially if they go abroad. He can still try to reach an audience online, but he can't go into that area anymore. We talked about that. Last week, following Mrs Van Toorenburg's request, I undertook to include this analysis. I would like to emphasise the following, because I have noticed that over the past week there has been some kind of image that I would be interested in partially banning freedom of expression. That's a false assumption. I have said both inside and outside the Chamber, and I repeat that here again within the Chamber, we need to realise that it is quickly affecting fundamental rights if we are to discuss with each other what criminal law might be done to better deal with these kinds of statements. As far as I am concerned, Mrs Buitenweg has said so herself in her first term: where will a possible further ban on certain statements be such as to affect the principles of the rule of law? That's how you said it, and I understand that. That is the question we need to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u102	I am very pleased that the Minister has listened so carefully to my plans, or my ideas. But then the Minister will also have heard that I asked him: can it be that the judge also now finds legal form, on the basis of the current law, that it could, for example, be an infringement of the rule of law? Isn't it possible and isn't it conceivable? In my view, it is only if this is conceivable that it is wise to leave the judgment to the judge as well. Maybe the Minister can get on that as well... Because what I hear from the Minister is that he has actually determined himself that the statements cannot be made. He then also established himself that they are not punishable under the current law. Well, that's all a little too much within one person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u103	There's a lot going on inside one person sometimes, but not with me. I have only found, of course, after thorough consultation and advice, that there was sufficient ground for the ban. That is, as you know, an administrative measure, with a somewhat different test from the criminal law measure. As far as criminal law is concerned, I have asked the Public Prosecutor for an explanation and I have been informed that there were not enough targets for prosecuting hate-sowing. I said in the Chamber last week, but that's only what I saw in Newscasts, that as a lawyer of the statements that come from there, I understand that they are inadequate, no matter how nasty and reprehensible they are, to prosecute Mr Fawaz Jneid. Then, of course, your point of: could you have that checked by the judge? Forgive me for referring to last week, but then I said: look, as a minister, I must be reluctant to interfere in an individual case, because then I will, I say to Mr De Graaf through you, influence the course of justice, and that will not help us all. But, of course, it is just that, I explained last week: if the D.A. says on good grounds that there is not enough reason to prosecute, we will have to respect that, assuming that the D.A. has really good research skills on that. Otherwise, you're gonna start a prosecution that turns out to be hopeless, and then you put the horse behind the cart. 'Cause then somebody's got some sort of "look at me," and that's a totally wrong signal. Once again, with the extension of the six-month ban at the beginning of this year, I wanted to send out a very clear signal: we are not going to accept this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u104	I listened very carefully to the Minister. I hear him, in short, condensing statements is dangerous, we know in this debate say: well, you should not go looking for a difference between my statements here in the Chamber and on camera, the nuanced story I have kept here in the Chamber about freedom of expression................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But that does raise a question. Because the Minister has also given very good examples. He said: we want to prevent people who are in good faith from falling under penalty at some point, or people who say something in emotion. Then the Minister comes with a letter. How exactly is the Minister going to solve this dilemma with a criminal instrument, with which he is going to identify deficits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u105	I will confess to you quite frankly that I do not know at this moment whether we can solve this through criminal law; I have spoken of a diabolical dilemma. I have also promised, in response to Mr Asscher's question, to involve a number of other countries. I will certainly do so in order to give your Chamber a full picture of what is going on, so what is being thought of elsewhere. But I am telling you quite frankly that I do not know at this time whether I am coming to you with a letter with some serious possibilities for a solution. For, if you will allow me, just before Mr Hiddema: the European Court of Human Rights clearly recognised the right to insult and hurt a number of years ago. It may not be my thing, but I'm sure it's my fault. In any case, the Court has said that there must be room for this in a society. If we know that, then we know the following. If we were to find ourselves in this house finding this unacceptable and we still want to take another step, then we would have to deal with the limitation that Mrs Buitenweg formulated. The European Court of Justice has very clearly defined this limitation. Last week, too, the context in which someone makes statements was discussed. Because I realize very well at least that's what I'm observing... that the statements of an imam who qualifies an individual good Muslim as an apostate and not a real Muslim... and I know a lot about what, in a certain context, can be wrongly picked up by someone who's radicalizing. But it hasn't yet been given that I've provided the criminal evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u106	I hear the Minister say a lot of good things. He is right to say that we are bound by the room for manoeuvre offered by the European Court of Justice. I do think that he is putting the ball a little too much into the European Court. I would still like to hear from him exactly how he looks at that diabolical dilemma. Because that seems to suggest that he himself feels that there is tension with freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u107	I have mentioned this tension with freedom of expression in this Chamber and probably in condensed form outside. That tension is there; we don't have to talk about it. Now it is true that freedom of expression is not an absolute thing after all. Preventively, you cannot intervene in advance, but if someone makes a statement that is punishable because they are hateful or that is an easy example of discriminatory, then they cannot rely on freedom of expression. But it's a very sensitive discussion in our country. I myself understand that very well. Mr Van Raak is no longer here, unfortunately, but I would have liked to quote the poem by Sister Immaculata of Reve for him, because I do think that, although it is not entirely my thing, people can go far with expressing their opinion. That is one of our achievements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u108	I want to talk about Mr. Fawaz, which I didn't want to talk about at first, because I thought there'd be a letter. But it's not about anything else...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u109	Into the microphone, Mr. Hiddema, or no one will hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u110	I'm waiting for the letter to come loose in that case, but I've heard so much about that letter that I'm getting very ominous thoughts, because I can guess what's in it. The letter states that the Minister does not consider that prosecution is possible on the basis of current legislation. Whether this will lead to further consequences for freedom of expression, we will see. The Minister talks very vaguely about this, but it is one or the other: if he comes up with something, it is at the expense of the other. What I would like, because I can already taste the bad content of that letter, is that at least it is explained in that letter that this minister sees no possibility of prosecuting Mr. Fawaz because he has accused a high-ranking driver, not just any one, Aboutaleb, who accused of betraying Islam, of feeding a jihad against Islam and has put it as an apostate. If, according to the Minister, that is hardly an implicit threat and does not yet lead to violence, then perhaps I understand the letter, but there must be a very good explanation for it. Once again, however, the Minister is now also taking action against European justice. He's gonna have to put that aside. He believes that there may be an imbalance between a decision he supports and European case law, but it does not occur because the European case law he is referring to, which seeks to protect freedom of expression, does not refer to inciting violence. We are not talking about discrimination or racism. This is about inciting violence. That's totally different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u111	And you want a response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u112	And then another advice, but wrapped in a question. The minister's in an inner circle where he's talked all the way to the mouth. That's not healthy. I advise the Minister to write a nice, prize-winning survey among all the prosecutors in the Netherlands. Should he see how much response he gets and how often it is said from an expert point of view: well, I want to prosecute, hear; I see plenty of opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u113	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u114	He should try it sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u115	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u116	I must confess, however, that Mr Hiddema is hitting a delicate chord here, because I am sad to say that I have never won a contest myself, and so I cannot participate in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u117	Then you can make some amends.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u118	Well, then I'm gonna have to go under another name. However, Madam President, I shall return to what Mr Hiddema said in his first term. I will answer that question immediately. At least that means that you look at the problem in such a way that you ask yourself the question: have we really done everything? Mr. Hiddema asked: what about those Belgian offences? I want to answer that right away, because I think I... Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u119	I had...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u120	That's what the minister's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u121	I had concentrated against remembrance on Fawaz and now the minister is fleeing across the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u122	No, no, I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u123	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u124	I hope I'm not qualified as a hate imam, but to return to my answer. Let me now turn to your point about El Alami. That letter's coming. The letter on Fawaz is coming. Mrs Kuik's points will also be taken into account. I will certainly see if the letter will be as it is now, even if it addresses a number of things you have mentioned. That's one. Then two. I'd really like to go back to Mr. El Alami for that. In reply to your question on the Belgian criminal offences, I can refer to the written reply of former State Secretary Dijkhoff of 19 December 2016. As a result of the fact that El Alami was expelled to the Netherlands, Question 4 was asked: "Is it stated in the notice that the Ministry of Security and Justice is examining the judgment of the Belgian Foreign Affairs Council where? If so, what is the outcome of that study and to what extent can that outcome be important for the admission of this imam to the Netherlands or the control of him? If not, what is not true?" The answer was: "I have studied the judgment. The judgment does not contain a criminal judgment and does not provide any basis for a criminal action." And then it goes on about foreign law, but that's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u125	I've seen that, too. So there is no criminal exposure from Belgium at all, but what we do know from Belgium is that the man was involved.That's how they describe it themselves during the murder in Toulouse, on which there is a life sentence, and that he certainly three times, the Belgians say at least three times that he has transported people to Syria. That's recruiting for strange military service. You can do something with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u126	The D.A. has, of course, also studied this and it has concluded that there are insufficient grounds for criminal prosecution in the Netherlands. I think it is right that you should bring up the point, because I think we should have done all these avenues or what do you call them; that is an anglicism... must have ended to see if everything has been tried. However, there is not enough time to prosecute in the Netherlands on the basis of Belgian facts. It's just really annoying, but then you'll have to wait. I'm going to answer a question from some of you again. Mr Hiddema himself made a number of observations about this. He may assume from me that there is a very close eye on whether that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u127	Can the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, say a little bit, but I would ask him to confirm in full sincerity that his services and the Public Prosecutor have taken full note of Mr El Alami's criminal record in Belgium and that they know all the ins and outs of what is known about him there? Then you can see if criminal proceedings are possible here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u128	You know, I seriously want to promise you that we'll ask again.We're living in 2018 now whether anything has come up in La Belgique and so on. If I tell you that it is a good thing that we are going down these roads too, then we must go down those roads to the best of our ability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u129	Are you taking that information with you in your letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u130	I might have to do that in a separate letter, because the letter is about Fawaz Jneid and this question is about Mr El Alami. Anyway, I don't care if it's in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u131	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u132	If I manage to file a file delivered to me from Belgium, can I file it with the Public Prosecutor's Office? Can I just say that the Minister said I could give this to the State's Attorney's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u133	A file you have or are about to receive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u134	If I am able to get the Belgian file to come to me with all the ins and outs, may it be that you authorize the Public Prosecutor to receive it from me and may I say that the Minister was okay with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u135	I think you should follow the right path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u136	There's nothing else to do!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u137	If you... Sorry, if Mr Hiddema has a dossier in which, in his opinion, there are relevant documents for considering a possible criminal prosecution of Mr El Alami, then I really want to encourage you, Madam President, Mr Hiddema to bring that file to the appropriate person. I think the Chief Prosecutor in his hometown of Amsterdam is the best person for that. He may heartily say that I welcomed that he was going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u138	I'll be happy to do that in the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u139	While we are discussing the question of whether or not to prosecute, I would like to draw attention to a number of things that the Minister has said. Basically, he says that if the D.A. states that there are insufficient grounds for criminal prosecution, we have to accept that. Period. And that's where he leaves it. At the same time, the Minister states that depicting a Muslim as an apostate can have a major effect on certain groups, especially when certain people do. In this case, we know that apostasy could even be death. Now I'm just a simple lawyer, but I used to learn that you can threaten someone directly by saying, "If you don't do this and this, I'll kidnap your child." That's a threat. But you can also say "if you don't do this and this, I know where your kids go to school." Then we learn and know that it has not been said that you are threatened, but that this is a threat. In what way does Mr Jneid's statement in this case, with all that is in it and its effects, not to sow hatred, not to sedition, not to threaten, and perhaps not to recruit for the jihad? If you want to interpret a little bit, can't it be prosecuted? Isn't it really a matter of getting a judge to judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u140	I explained that last week, of course. I promised the Chamber that in that letter to your Chamber prior to the plenary debate I would explain exactly what Mr Rutte is asking. I think it makes more sense to just put that in that letter. If I promise here again that I'll put it in the letter, that's a little gratuitous. Then we can use that debate to talk about it; at least that was my perception of what the Chamber wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u141	We're gonna see that letter. In it, the Minister will explain in detail why it would not be possible. But does the Minister share with me that the D.A. would be able to prosecute, but would he rather not? An assessment is made: we prefer not to, because the prosecution estimates that it will not come to a conviction. Shouldn't the D.A., given the enormous unrest that exists and the fact that everyone says that it's sanding, prosecuting, as in other cases, just to get a judge's opinion and not stick to a judge's judgment of the D.A.?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u142	That is more or less the question that Mrs Buitenweg asked. Couldn't you take it as some kind of legal form? I'm looking at Mrs. Buitenweg, but that's how I understood it. Look, the prosecution has decided not to prosecute is not because one would not want to, but because one feels that there is insufficient chance of successful prosecution. Then I do not think that the prosecution means that that opportunity is only 49%, but that it really means that it will not succeed on the basis of those statements. As I said last week and repeated today, I think that in that situation you should not focus on such a case. Because then you have a good chance that the judge will acquit someone, and then you're basically just further away from home. I would also like to point out, for example, the judge in Eindhoven, who destroyed a few years ago a ban imposed on an imam who came to speak. The judge said that that's preventive and that's not allowed, so in principle, this gentleman can just come and keep his story. These are statements which are well-motivated on the basis of all the legal rules in force, but which give the wrong backing, if I may sum it up. But, as far as I am concerned, the letter will allow us to discuss this in detail again in a few weeks' time; I do not know when that debate will be precise. I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u143	The legal form is so important. We used to only know the intent in criminal law. And precisely because of the legal status of judges, we now also know the conditional nature, to name but a few. It's slowly but surely stretched, already interpreting. That's how justice works. If there is so much social fuss and if even the mayor of Rotterdam has to be secured because he fears for his life, we can't make it much bigger, isn't there exactly every reason to have the judge give a ruling? Then there is a risk that it will lead to acquittal. Yeah, that's the rule of law. A conviction is never established in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u144	I can repeat the considerations why I can't. Once again, I would like to take this up again during the plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u145	It might also be good to know when that letter will be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u146	Yes. I'm doing the best I can to get it to your room in the course of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u147	Then I want to, anyway, before...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u148	Mr President, may I just briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u149	Very briefly, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u150	Thank you, Madam President. That's very generous. I am concerned about the Minister's remark that we are then further away from home. I think there is a great deal of difference of opinion about that. Because rejecting it by the judge, so when he says someone isn't guilty, at least it makes it clear what the boundaries are, including the law. What I fear is that nothing is being tested now for fear that it may be rejected, as the Minister says, but that there will then be in a letter measures to change and broaden the law and thereby restrict freedom of expression without any definitive assessment of whether the current law is satisfactory. So the whole idea of "you're farther from home" scares me, because I think we're getting farther away from home on this very road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u151	That is what we need to look at in the plenary debate with each other. I keep saying "to each other," because this is a delicate subject, so to speak. That is also evident from this discussion. We must then look carefully at whether we really find what Mrs Buitenweg is saying, namely to do so in such a case as this. I would also like to say that the imam in question is being closely monitored. At some point, of course, there could be a situation that could change, namely that there is a situation that is covered by a crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u152	What questions haven't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u153	Mrs. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u154	Mrs. Van der Graaf. Or do you mean Mr. De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u155	No, excuse me, Mrs. Van der Graaf. Excuse me. Mrs Van der Graaf had asked about the difference between speakers from third countries and Dutch residents. That has to do with nationality, of course. In the case of different nationalities, the Dutch government may impose all kinds of measures. For visa-seekers who call for hostility or violence, it is simply possible to refuse or withdraw the visa. Then you have the Directive 2004/38 which allows an EU citizen to be refused access to a country if, on account of his personal behaviour, he is a current, real and serious danger to the fundamental importance of society. The problem is that we are dealing here with a Dutch citizen who has been evicted by Belgium. Mrs Van der Graaf also mentioned the point of taking the context, inciting self-direction. What people think and believe can't be criminal. Only behaviors can be and include making statements. Restrictions may thus be imposed on the exercise of freedoms. However, they must always be provided by law, serve a legitimate purpose and be necessary in a democratic society. The question is to what extent the government is entitled to do so in a slightly different way from Mrs Buitenweg's words in order to infringe fundamental rights. You can't answer that question in a general sense. I think I have already answered Mr Hiddema's question. He's not here. He's tweeting, I think. Then there is the question of prosecuting in the Netherlands. I would like to stress once again that there must be legal and convincing evidence of criminal offences. But, Mr. De Graaf, be assured that I, of course, also pay close attention to the standards of assessment of the area ban in this case. Mr Azarkan wondered whether any conduct that allowed prosecution had been detected. At any rate, the prosecution has not yet been informed of any criminal offences that may be prosecuted. The question of PVV and the Christian Union was also whether I actually think that this imam, which is considered a danger to Belgian society, is also a danger to Dutch society. The difficult point is, of course, that the denial of a citizen's residence in the Union is possible on grounds of public policy or security if his personal behaviour constitutes a real, real and serious threat. In this case Belgium has denied a Dutch citizen the right to reside on its territory. The Netherlands must, of course, make its own assessment of Dutch national security. There is simply not enough information at the moment that makes it possible for us, for example, to impose a ban on areas. Then I've answered a lot of questions. Mr Groothuizen has asked about the determination of where he is now staying in the Netherlands. He has Dutch nationality and can therefore go to the Netherlands wherever he likes. Mr De Graaf has asked what I am doing to prevent the expulsion of the son. I cannot go into that specific case, because then I will interfere with a case and the course of justice will be affected. In general, I can say that we have agreed in the Schengen Convention that countries have the right to expel and/or refuse entry persons from other Schengen countries who pose a threat to national security. This right also applies to Belgium. I have a few more questions to answer. I have already announced the measures. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked another question about glorification. The initiative legislative proposal for criminalisation glorification of terrorism is pending, under Chamber number 34466. The cabinet position on this issue will also be determined in the light of the content of the further examination of the own-initiative proposal. The cabinet has announced that it will double the maximum penalty for hate-sowing, but Mr Van der Staaij asked if that would help in the present cases. To emphasize the seriousness of the crime, the penalty is doubled. This will be reflected in the draft legislative proposal on re-evaluation of current criminal offences. This will be for consultation in a few weeks' time. Whether or not it applies in cases where it applies is of course up to the prosecution, but of course Mr Van der Staaij has always been proven to be guilty of the crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u156	It was also stated in the coalition agreement, as I said, that 'everything must be done to prevent hate preachers from being offered a stage'. Is that a general remark, which refers to what is already happening? Or is it the case that additional new measures are being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u157	You know, it is primarily my job to pay close attention to whether there is a ban on areas and to take measures when people are not legally looking for such a stage. That won't always be easy. You have seen in the judge's ruling on Eindhoven that you cannot intervene in advance. I think, in all honesty, that the ban on the territory of Mr Fawaz Jneid is a good example of being alert. This is a merit which falls under the heading of my predecessor, because that was the first time it has been said. As you can remember, there was a mosque disguised as a bookshop, where very radically preached. You have to be alert to that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u158	Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u159	I actually wanted to wait until the minister was finished, and that's what I thought for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u160	I was just looking for a second. You had another question about administrative detention, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u161	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u162	Administrative detention is not a justified deprivation of liberty without reasonable suspicion. This follows from the case law, but also from all kinds of treaty obligations. The D.A.'s office simply has the legal instruments to act in criminal matters. Once again, we will analyse that hatred in more detail in that letter, but preventive detention is not an option in our legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u163	But that possibility is coming and the Minister can embrace it, as I indicated in my first term. But I came up for another question. After this whole ritual dance, which went all the way, and rightly so, from criticism of the minister in response to his performance last week, one thing stuck. Our Code of Criminal Law offers the possibility to prosecute the expressions made in Belgium here in the Netherlands. This concerns Article 66 of the penal code and here the call for violence. But it's all about the hot stuff, including the minister. However, I would like to ask him once again in this debate what is the difficulty of looking closely at the fact that El Alami Amaouch called for violence. 'Cause that's what he did really hard. What doesn't the Minister see as calls for violence? I don't understand anymore. Because then all roads will be open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u164	I thought I had just done this piece with Mr Hiddema. I explained and quoted from the letter of State Secretary Dijkhof of 19 December 2016, in which he says: listen, we just don't have any leads for a criminal action. That was shortly after El Alami had been expelled by Belgium to the Netherlands and the prosecutor had studied the file. I then promised Mr. Hiddema that I would certainly have the prosecution check again whether there are any circumstances that have not yet become known in Belgium by now April 2018 which would allow the judgment of that time to be adjusted. Mr Hiddema then said, at least as I understand it, that he may have a file of incriminating documents which he will hand over to the Amsterdam Chief Officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u165	That is, of course, an important point, but that remains secondary. The Minister himself can still make a statement here in the Chamber on that fact. He may refer to a letter from former Secretary of State Dijkhoff from 2016 or 2017 from when is that letter? But he can say here himself that he simply considers it sufficient as a minister to be called for violence. I don't understand why the Minister keeps jumping away from that so hard. I'm not getting that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u166	I'm not a state's attorney. I'm the Minister of Justice. I am responsible for the proper functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but it is totally inappropriate for me to say here in any individual case whether I think that something is criminal. That is not part of my position at all, and it does not fit in with the rule of law. It's very simple. I've run out of questions. I'll take a look around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u167	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Not many questions have been put to me this evening, but I would like to say a few words, particularly on the preventive side and the local approach, because a number of speakers, Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Grothuizen, Mr Rutte and Mr Van der Staaij, have touched on them. I think it is important that the broader approach is also addressed. Mr. Chairman. Dutch society is resilient and offers scope for a wide variety of religious views, views and lifestyles. People have the freedom to make their own choices within the framework of the democratic rule of law. This freedom is not unlimited, as Mrs van der Graaf and Mr Groothuizen said and stop where persons or groups restrict or threaten the freedoms of others. This also applies to religious beliefs that lead to active intolerance and the sowing of hatred and division. One important point I want to make is that the key to preventing preachers with an extremist or unbearable message lies, to a large extent, with the Muslim community itself. We are also increasingly seeing the awareness and willingness to keep such preachers out of the mosque. In doing so, they are important partners for local authorities in particular in combating this problematic behaviour. Therefore, it is also important to continue investing in the resilience against this kind of excess. We do this, among other things, by focusing on countering extremist propaganda, online and offline, increasing the resilience of young people, for example through the JEP, and supporting professionals. In fact, we will soon have a general discussion with your Chamber on the prevention of radicalisation, in which we will give a comprehensive account of what that policy means. That AO is with the Minister of OCW, the Minister of VWS, the Minister of Justice and myself. In addition, it is important that the problematic behavior is really addressed. That is why we have developed the three-track approach: 1. interaction and dialogue, 2. addressing and confronting and 3. disrupting and maintaining. Track 1 and track 2 are really about local practice, about addressing and confronting. The point is that individuals or institutions faced with problematic behaviour can actually act on it. If that's enough, track 3 will be in sight. This is indeed about the disruption, as happened in The Hague when the ban was imposed. That is therefore a step further in the three-track approach. If there really is a violation of the law, then it will be in the area of the Minister of Justice, but before that there is also a local approach. Mr Arno Rutte asked a question about the VIP approach, the very irritating person approach. Such an approach is also used in Belgium. Our three-track approach is similar, because in Belgium, too, they use the approach of dialogue, confronting and addressing and, if necessary, disrupting. The Netherlands has been developing the three-track approach in recent years. We are also still working on municipalities to further develop it, also because in practice we see that rail 3, in particular, disrupting and maintaining it, is also very complex. Every situation is different. But we are working together in good dialogue with these municipalities to develop this. We shall also come back to the AO on prevention, which we will soon have with your Chamber. It is also important that we support local authorities in their action by strengthening the knowledge and information position and by developing the legislative framework, which is actually the framework for the three-track approach. That's what I wanted to say in general. Finally. Addressing problematic behavior is always complex in practice. This is also evident from today's case and last week's case. In many cases, it is undesirable but not punishable and there may be conflicting fundamental rights. However, this does not relieve us of the duty to continue looking for a new perspective of action, especially where it is difficult and necessary, especially in the local approach. There must also be close cooperation between the municipalities and the Empire. But above all, we need to cooperate with the religious communities. We need each other to make it a real success. I just wanted to say this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u169	Mr President, I shall be very brief. Can the Minister say something about the plans that had been developed to see a little better which municipality is or is not effective? The Hague sometimes does it reasonably, but sometimes it doesn't. I'd like an answer to this. Can the Minister also say something about the fact that this imam has really called out very gloriously that he wants a big house and a benefit, and that he is just getting it right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u170	On the first question, I would like to return to the AO on prevention. So the question is whether we can learn from each other. In particular, a number of larger municipalities also apply it in practice. But it's always searching in the complexity: what works and what doesn't? That's the complexity we saw tonight. Mr Arno Rutte also asked a question about the reduction of benefits and such situations. To be honest, I do not have a concrete answer to it today. It is possible that our Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Tamara van Ark, will make non-binding agreements with municipalities on the Participation Act. That's what the coalition agreement says. For example, there is a language requirement in the Participation Act. Mr Rutte already referred to it. So indeed: if people do not speak the language and therefore do not have a chance to participate in the Dutch labour market, the local government in the Participation Act can decide to reduce the benefit. I don't want to tie all kinds of things together. I do not think this is appropriate tonight, also because the Secretary of State himself is investigating how to make the assistance more active. However, in this local approach there is the maintenance and disruption, so that the municipalities have the tools to implement this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u171	Does the Minister still want to take the sound I get from municipalities, namely that people often express themselves very skillfully on social media and then play dumb when they just have to work? Then suddenly a benefit is needed and then the municipalities have their hands in their hands, because that is a huge social skill on the Internet is apparently not called a qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u172	I'll take this one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u173	The minister just referred to the language requirement. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs would, in a broader sense, within the framework of the Participation Act, consider that this should be looked at more closely. But today we are talking about the hate preachers, of which at least we know that one of the two, Mr Jneid, speaks very bad Dutch after 23 years. I don't know if he has a benefit. I don't know the language skills of the other person, but we know from him that he has a benefit. Would it not be appropriate at the very least to interfere specifically with the people who are doing everything in their power to undermine our society in the context of this disturbance, which the Minister himself mentioned, and then, for example, to seize this point with both hands? So we could use that language requirement. They know all these rules so well to get us. Just get them back. This is a nice remedy. Is the Minister prepared to have contact with the Secretary of State on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u174	I understand Mr Rutte's appeal. I have just said in general that it fits in with the three-track approach of local authorities. I also told Mrs Van Toorenburg that I would take this with me. I find it complicated to judge specific cases, because I do not know. I don't know what happened at the local level in this situation. I wouldn't speculate on it. I really think this is a matter for the municipality, in this case the municipality of The Hague, which is responsible for this. But I heard the notion right. I hope that I will do Mr Rutte justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u175	Yeah, sometimes you're in an uncomfortable position. I get that. But the Minister has heard the notion correctly. I had also asked in my speech what the state of play was regarding Mr Tellegen and others' motion. who asked the government in April 2016 to ensure that organisations and institutions that invite hate preachers or offer a stage can be sanctioned. That seems to me to be a good one in the context of the disruption. That motion was passed a while ago. I don't know if something happened to it, or else it would be a good idea to work on it. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u176	I read something about that. I admit that I am taking this into account in the prevention section that we are sending to the Chamber. Wait, I've got the motion with the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u177	In second term, I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u178	I'll look it up, 'cause I've got these by the pieces. I think the motion is over, but I'm gonna go look it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u179	You'll come back to it later. Thank you. Now we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u180	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions. The first motion is in line with the last remark I have just made. I'd better file that right away. Then I would like to say a few words about the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the imam El-Alami Amaouch, classified in Belgium as a state-of-the-art, called for the legs and tongue of an Islam critic to be cut off;]] [[Whereas this is a call for violence and therefore a criminal offence;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to prosecute this violent summoner and to denaturalise and expel him after serving his sentence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u181	Tonight it was also about disrupting the hate images that were marked here. I prefer to talk about violence images. Islam is, as far as we are concerned, a great cry for hatred and violence. That's why it's best to take care of everything at the source. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the imam El-Alami Amaouch, classified in Belgium as a state-of-the-art, called for the legs and tongue of an Islam critic to be cut off;]] [[Whereas this is a call for violence and therefore a criminal offence;]] [[noting that several mosques in the Netherlands have given him a stage to continue his activities;]] [[calls on the Government to immediately close all the mosques and cultural centres that have given this caller a stage, to dissolve all associated organisations and then to close all mosques;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29164-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u182	Mr. Chairman. The conclusion of this debate is, in fact, that the Minister reaffirms once again that there are no serious possibilities to tackle radical imams. At the same time there will be another letter, so the debate will be continued. However, I think it is important to table two motions now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the statements made by Fawaz Jneid should be assessed within the context of increased threat and the possible legitimacy of violence which could be derived from his words;]] [[Whereas freedom of expression is already limited by the law in the case of offences such as hate speech, threats and sedition;]] [[considers that freedom of expression should not be further restricted;]] [[considers that the aforementioned hate messages should be countered because of the threat they pose;]] [[calls on the Government to propose appropriate and proportionate measures to address these hate messages in a targeted manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister for Justice and Security may impose measures for the protection of national security;]] [[considers that national security can also be threatened via digital channels;]] [[believes that a targeted ban on the distribution of dangerous messages via social media can be more effective;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether administrative measures should include a "digital area ban,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29164-69]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Arno Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29164-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motion from me. We'll get another letter, but we'll get a feeling of unrest. This is particularly true of the fact that we have talked today about freedom of expression, but I am still surprised that we do not find it strange to restrict freedom of expression with an administrative ban. Apparently it's fine, and what we as CDA are also okay with is that someone is no longer allowed to say anything here in these neighbourhoods, but apparently they are somewhere else. A lot of different parties say: make sure that it can no longer be done on the Internet. But the same people will say: we must not restrict freedom of expression by means of a criminal procedure that a judge ultimately deals with. Mr President, I do not understand that in all honesty. And that motivates me merely to ensure that we go a proper way to get through criminal law the opportunity to prevent someone from glorifying terrorism any longer. Because we seem to be okay with dealing with it by administrative means, but I believe that the Code of Criminal Law is a much better way of doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u184	Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union does not need a second term. Then I will go to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Tonight I tasted a widespread discomfort about the presence and statements of hate preachers. As far as I am concerned, it is good that the Minister has made it clear today that he understands the dilemmas that would lead to a far-reaching criminal restriction on freedom of expression. I think that is at the heart of today's debate. In any case, my group, let us be quite clear, believes that we should not go down the road of further restriction of freedom of expression. Limiting our freedom, because a few people do not feel responsible for dealing with these freedoms properly, is not the way to go. With the Minister for Social Affairs, I believe that our society is already quite resilient. Where we need to strengthen this resilience, we need to work on it. We can do that with a good mix of preventive and repressive measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u186	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u187	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Ministers very much. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his statement on the need to invest in resilience in society. Of course, I can only endorse that. The important Azough Commission has also been concerned with the need to make a great deal of progress at local level in terms of prevention, better support and greater connection. As far as the judicial part is concerned, I am still a little confused. The Minister himself has said that he is actually in favour of not going to court because he says he is afraid that it will not ultimately lead to a conviction. So it seems that there is still a balance between the Minister and not to do it, while I think it is problematic that we have not gone all the way. The result is that there will indeed be a letter to see how we could possibly proceed to prosecution when the Minister does not see room for it at the moment. So I'm afraid of the implications of the fact that he didn't push it all the way to the end. My final point is that the Minister referred to Aboutaleb as a good Muslim. I think it is important that the Minister will probably look for it again in the Acts to exclude people from qualifying. Eventually, it's people themselves who are going to judge what faith they have. I don't think it's for anyone to say whether someone is a good believer or not. In my view, that is precisely the essence of freedom of religion, of freedom of religion. You can decide for yourself what you want to believe in and who you believe in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u188	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u189	I shall resume the sitting and I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u190	Yes, Mr. Chairman, we've turned the tables. I'm handling the motion in part No. 68 and I come back to Mr Rutte's question on the Tellegen motion. There was some confusion with us as to what exactly the Tellegen motion was about. So it was about a different motion than I had prepared. So I would like to say to Mr Rutte that I will soon be returning to the Chamber in a letter on what happened to it. Then I hope to inform Mr Rutte. The motion in part No. Mr De Graaf asked the government "to close immediately all the mosques and cultural centres which had given this caller a stage" and then to close all the mosques. It won't be surprising that I'm deceiving this motion. First of all, because of freedom of religion. That's a great asset in this country. Let's just keep it going. Two, and that is a more serious remark: it does not do justice to the practice either. I have already said in my first speech that we also have good cooperation with the mosque authorities when it comes to combating extremist preachers and that we also need to work together to keep them out of the door. This motion therefore does not do justice to the practice. That's why I advise against this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u191	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u192	Thank you, Madam President. I should first like to comment briefly on the motions. The motion in part No. Mr De Graaf asked the government to make an effort to prosecute this violent caller and to denaturalise and expel him after serving his sentence. I'm deceiving that motion. Persecution is as said to the prosecution and aside: a call for violence is not a terrorist offence and therefore not a basis for withdrawing Dutch citizenship. Mrs. Kuik has two motions. In the first, it invites the government to come up with appropriate and proportionate measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u193	Before you go any further. Mrs. Kuik, I understand there are other signatories. Then you have to tell me now. Then we can straighten that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u194	I said that at the speaker's seat, but I failed to put it underneath. It's about the motion for a digital area ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u195	He'll be here in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u196	Yes, but I must make it clear to the Acts that Mr Rutte is also underneath. My name is Chicken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u197	For those who don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u198	I was now working on the motion in part No. 69. That is the motion to come up with appropriate and proportionate measures, without addressing the freedom of expression of all. I don't recommend that motion. Not necessarily because of the content, but there will be a letter and the plenary debate following that letter. All these issues will be dealt with again. By the way, I just wanted to tell you that I had a little talk. It'll take a little longer to get that letter to you. It will be the last week of April, because we must also have a number of things sorted out abroad. I understand, then, Mrs Kikken's motion on the digital ban, which has now been co-signed by Mr Rutte. I think that's a very creative idea. I will take it with me in the letter, but I would like to discourage the motion at the moment or request that the motion be held until we have had that plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u199	I'd be happy to hold the motion until the letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u200	At the request of Mrs Kuik, I propose her motion (29164, No. 70). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u201	Then I had two final comments. I did not go along with Mrs Van Toorenburg's remarks in my first term, but I also think that this is an example of what we should be discussing with each other. Why ban the administration and why not ban the criminal law? I am not speaking about that at all, but I think we should realise that we must then have the willingness to discuss these things with each other. The last thing I really think is important to say is this. Mrs Buitenweg said I would have been afraid. I don't recognize that at all. I wouldn't have wanted to go to court. No, that was a decision of the prosecution, not because they were scared, but simply because the prosecutor said, "Hey, listen, this is not enough for prosecution." I've only asked the State's Attorney's Office for an explanation of this, and I understand that explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u202	Short reaction, Mrs Buitenweg, because that discussion was held.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u203	That discussion was indeed held, but the Minister himself said that he thought we were further away from home if there was a negative judge's opinion. With that, he gave his own judgment. I assume that has therefore been taken into account in its assessment of the D.A.'s assessment. I made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u204	Okay. Then you've made your point. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-35.u205	I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Members of Parliament, all the staff and the people who have followed this debate in one way or another. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
