ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u1	The next item is the progress of the handling of bill 35004, Amendment of the Renewable Energy Storage Act in connection with the setting of tariffs for 2019. I once again welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy and apologize for the debate. I'm delighted you managed to get back here at 5:50 p.m. And I see now that you still need needle and thread, because the knot fell off your jacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u2	We need the government's response now. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing I'm the buttonmaker at home. In most households, you only have one of them anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u4	You're here to count your buttons, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u5	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the ODE. No Dutchman will know what it is, but of course it's just about the energy bill. And then we all know what it's about. It's about heat and electricity, but it's also about affordability. Then come the questions of justice from behind. And then there's the questions about the people who can't afford it. And so we are already directly in the middle of society via this abbreviation of three letters. Where's the ODE coming from today? In this process, of course, he comes from the Rutte II coalition agreement. That is where we found that we really needed to invest in renewable energy and CO reduction. A certain increase has been outlined there. And we're still, even today, on that ramp. We have extended the path for the future climate agreement, but we are still walking up the mountain road outlined in the Rutte II coalition agreement. We have divided it between citizens and businesses in a certain way and then you automatically ask: does the user pay now? We've joined the energy tax here and followed the same line of thought. That is, of course, that you want to first of all join "the user/polluter pays'. Everyone knows that; you don't have to be a great economist for that. That's always the most obvious thing. If a non-economic operator also takes a risk with the economy, he will come to this conclusion very quickly. So that's what you try as much as you can, but there are limits to it. Those boundaries make it uncomfortable. They're necessary, but they make it uncomfortable. These limits extend to degressivity in tariffs, which means that large companies which compete directly with other large companies abroad will pay correspondingly less. In this way and along those lines a somewhat arbitrary fiftyfifty distribution has also been chosen. This degressivity is not for fun or to help companies a bit, but because we seriously believe that we can have problems if the foreigners do not do exactly the same as we do, but are sitting next to the door. Is the fifty-fifty really a good division? Let us put it this way: there is a good reason for the degressivity, but everyone knows that fifty-fifty is a bit arbitrary. The demand for this distribution is not new. For the summer I have already promised the House of Representatives that I really want to look at this division. As the amount increases and as the climate challenge becomes more serious, this distribution becomes more in the spotlights. When it comes to a small amount, we can all easily be arbitrary, but as big as it is, we want a better foundation. I've promised the House of Representatives that I'd look for that support. That means I'm going to do a reconnaissance on that division. How do you do that? You don't do that by asking if fifty-fifty is fair, but above all by asking if another division is possible. And that has to do with the playing field and, of course, is also linked to the climate policy we are pursuing. We now have a coalition agreement which states that we do want to reduce CO emissions and that we have to raise money for this, but that we do not want both production and emissions to leave abroad, with the jobs involved. Then we didn't help the earth very much, but the Dutchman took his job. That's, I think, the core. Not everything can, but we have to look for the space there is. The core is that Dutch households are worried about their energy bill. There are plenty of people who are worried about that, but they're also worried about their jobs. So what I am going to do with and after the passing on of a possible climate agreement has been looked at what the burden that industry could bear and which large-scale users can bear. Then I will look again to see if this fifty-fifty distribution, which was created with some arbitraryity at the time, really fits. The round numbers already suggest that there might be a way to do that. So that's what I'm gonna do. I'm not going to anticipate that, because I don't know. In fact, with the climate agreement, I have also started to say rather harshly to industry or companies, for example: a lot has to be done here, a lot has to be done there. We have sent letters to both chambers stating that industry itself must contribute fairly to its own tasks and that the uneconomic summits must also be brought up by industry to a large extent and cannot be held by the Dutch and citizens. That's a precarious process. That must be done carefully, because in the end we are not only concerned about the energy bill, but also about the job. I'm going to use the next calendar year for that. In the climate agreement, I am already going to focus on that, because I really think that this should include a level playing field test. It serves at the same time until it looks at the amount of space left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u6	I hear the Minister say: I am not going to anticipate that. He didn't say the word "justice," but I'm glad he said that the division needs to be looked at, although he says he's not going to get ahead of it. Can the Minister comment on that a little more? Of course, you can say the same thing: we are already taking a first step. This also means something for the support of society for this energy bill. If you look at what has been left to do lately, you can say with the same right: I am already going to take one step towards a fairer distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u7	Yeah, there's the word "righteous" again. Look, my point is that we can't say much about that right now, because I don't know yet. We are playing with great things, because these kinds of divisions are just bound up with huge numbers of jobs, jobs and prosperity. So we have to do it carefully. So where something can be done, maybe it should be done. Where there are possibilities to distribute burdens differently, I understand the desirability. The word'support area' has been mentioned to me once or twice a day. There were also periods in which the word security won, but now it is "support." I understand that there can be a desirability there, not just a social one, but even a political one. But first, I make the sums. That's really what I'm saying. I dare to challenge many here by saying that they too do not have the sums in their pockets and do not know with certainty whether things that we may want politically can really be done. At least I don't know and I'm not gonna do anything until I've tested it. So that's what we're going through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u8	Let me ask you a question. Caution is a good starting point, but at the moment, with this 50-50 distribution, the account is deposited with households who are not at the right moment in a number of areas to apply the energy saving measures themselves. So you could argue with the same ease that caution is needed there too. That account will be deposited by now. Why only caution when it is possible to increase the burden on business and why not that caution when it comes to the higher bill for households?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u9	The word "port plane" is in the front again. I think we all want to reduce the concerns about the energy bill in this Chamber. At the same time, we should not do that if we have no certainty about the jobs. That could be worse, I think. We need to get there... I'm gonna take a serious look at that. The round numbers, fifty-fifty, betray that there might be something to do about it. So I'm gonna check that out first. Perhaps I am too careful, Mrs Fiers, but that is not often said to me. I'd be honored. I'm gonna allow myself a little dilation. What if we split the ODE differently? Is any of you actually really excited about the ODE? Look, it's a means to raise money for a noble cause. The substance itself is not very noble in itself, because it does not stimulate in any meaningful direction, any more than the energy tax. I have already discussed with the Secretary of State for Finance that it is really weird that grey kilowatt hours and green kilowatt hours are treated exactly the same. If we were to be greening and raising money, we could also slowly introduce an incentive effect. If we introduce a CO tax at the moment, just flattening all over society, it will, unlike De Nederlandsche Bank thinks, lead to local catastrophes. That's what I predict. However, the world is slowly shifting its taxes on CO. That could also fit us in the long term with the ODE and the energy tax. That is why I think we should look beyond just the division. We also need to think about how in the future, perhaps after 2025, we should migrate to a tax that is more meaningful in itself. Now it's actually just a pretty flat load. Good and evil are treated equally: as long as the money comes in. Of course, it goes to a noble cause, but I think eventually it can and must be smarter. As neighbouring countries gradually start to behave in this way, it will be possible to do so. Being a big fan of a CO levy myself, I have ever wondered: is it getting any better in the world now? I looked up the statistics on that the other day. Ten years ago, 1% of emissions were subject to some form of CO-related pricing, now 10%. Is that a lot? No, it's not enough, but we're on our way, we're on our way. We need to look beyond just another division. Things can often be smarter. All this, of course, leads to an effect on the energy bill. Mr. Earthema has already dealt with that extensively. I fully respect him in using the word "climate nonsense." That's his choice, but whoever says that has to stick to the facts. Then I'm not sure he's basing himself on the right sources. The article he quoted and the amount he mentioned come from the site gaslicht.com. €360 does not represent in any way what the average household experiences. Firstly, energy prices are currently greatly exaggerated compared to what we now have a view of: gas is a quarter exaggerated and electricity is two thirds. It is also true that, according to the statistics, a larger house than average is taken. The trend throughout the Netherlands for 20 years that the houses are gradually starting to consume less and less energy is not in this either. As an independent authority for this, we have the Planning Office for the Environment, we have the National Energy Exploration. There are skilled people there who take everything into account. They look at what happens to the energy bill as a result of government intervention, taking part in the autonomous economy of houses. Then that amount comes to €108. Isn't that a little? No, that's not very small. €108 is a lot of money for a lot of people, but €108 is not equal to €360. So no, let's not trivialize it, we're doing something serious here. But the number is rather close to the €108. By the way, where does that amount come from anyway? Well, one of the things that this €108 comes from is the increase in energy taxes by reducing the return. Why did we do that again in the coalition agreement? That's what we did to lock back through income tax. If you remove that increase by roughly €60, there is roughly €50 left that is a real increase. The rest is either a shift or not true. Those are still the facts, even though €50 is a lot of money for a lot of people, not a bad word about it. But it doesn't look like $360 in any way anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u10	The minister just started talking about the big calculators of the planning agency. I referred to this in my contribution. I don't know if you intend to go back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u12	You'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u13	Well, you mentioned the Metering Report with double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u15	Shall I say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u16	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u17	Mrs Fiers asked a valid question, which we must also ask ourselves permanently in a country like the Netherlands. Can people pay for this? This question always arises in relation to one aspect of people's finances, in this case the energy bill. I have calculated that the amount looks slightly different and that some of it comes from income tax, but that means that we also have to look at the overall picture. In itself, two-size measurement does that. This shows that the Netherlands is a lonely frontrunner in terms of low payment risk. The report also rightly states that you should look at this in the context of the whole. Taking these things into account in the purchasing power calculations of another planning agency, the average increase in purchasing power of groups that are not very far apart is about 1.5% a year. So yes, the energy bill is going up, but there is also economic growth and prosperity growth. Despite the fact that we also invest even more in public services, even after all these payments, there is still room for extra spending. Can all people pay for it? No, there are people who, by all kinds of objective standards or for themselves, may not be able to afford it, or find that they cannot afford it. Those people exist, and we have policies for that. We are one of the countries in the world that is most reluctant to close down and one of the countries that is most alert to connecting these people with debt relief and municipal authorities. But no doubt there are also people who have difficulty with that. This report sets that vulnerable group at about 4% of households.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u18	500,000 families according to the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u19	I've got another number here, 270,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u20	Well, that was two groups added up, if I remember correctly. But does the Minister have an idea of what it means to these families in terms of policy effects? I understand that it does not apply to everyone, but does the Minister have an idea of what this is going to mean for these families in a vulnerable position, families who are already unable to pay the energy bill and are now facing a higher energy bill? When we talk about policy here, it is important that we have an insight into its effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u21	That's what we do. This is how the entire purchasing power cycle of the government has been put together for decades. We are of course looking at the whole, because otherwise one would bring into the world the concept of "energy poverty" and the next "living poverty," a third "auto-poverty" and a fourth "gambling poverty." What you're looking at is the whole thing. Then, in the purchasing power picture, you take up all the rising burdens, both taxes and expenditure, inflation and price developments. Then you see what happens to those people's purchasing power. Then we see that we are now in a year in which we have a limited increase in purchasing power compared to economic growth, because we invest a lot in collective provision and therefore also in collective burdens, but in which almost all groups still have a purchasing power effect of roughly 1.5% in the plus. So that's the way we pay attention to that. Of course, that's all macro. We also know that people are getting into trouble, but for that we have the circuit of debt relief and alerting, in which the energy companies also have a role to play. If they find late payments, they are now obliged to bring people into contact with municipal authorities that can look at them more broadly. Because it is often a problem that is not only in energy, there is often much more going on. That's exactly what you want to track down quickly. Mr. Chairman. Mr Pijlman had asked me how I am European, if I understand him correctly. At D66 I always wait for the European question, and he came. Internationally, we do not make it a secret, certainly not in a European context, that we believe that the European objective should be increased in climate terms. Of course, that also depends indirectly on the ODE. That is not a big European dossier at all, but I am happy to make this European detour, because we discussed this at the summit in Poland a lot of European parties. There I do not yet see a large majority of parties saying that 55% is coming to us now. But a lot of parties say: the panels are sliding with us. That is what all kinds of parties say, even the Germans, but certainly also the Belgians. All my colleagues abroad say: it is a matter of time, but we too are moving forward. Our ambition is growing too. We see, of course, in the electorate a certain greening, which puts colleagues of mine behind the pants. So it's moving and it's not going as fast as we might want, but it's moving. In Europe we are now at 45%, instead of the 40% we had. I can assume that, under our encouragement, the panels may be able to move even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u22	I would like to clarify my European question. It was about what's the basis for that fifty-fifty distribution. Europe's demand was linked to that. What you just did is argue what the industry can carry. At the same time, you can also ask what households, especially those with the lowest incomes, can bear. My question was about how to deal with this across borders, because there is a great danger that if the Netherlands does not care about industry, Germany will have to do so, and so will Belgium, and so will taxes on industry. This is something you need to tackle at European level. I would like the cabinet to work together to determine what the industry can do. Then you can also decide what the citizens can handle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u23	I think that's the right order. The international dimension in this is precisely the dimension we need, because the Netherlands is not an island. We do a number of things European. What we are doing at European level is the ETS system. That is carbon pricing; before that we saw the price quadruple in about a year. In itself, that goes the right way. From 2020 onwards, we will have the system of destroying surplus duties. So we do have a fully-fledged European system, but it does not bite enough at the moment. Furthermore, where environmental taxes are concerned, the Netherlands is not in the process of reducing the burden. In fact, there is a huge rise in burdens, including for companies. We must keep an eye on the level playing field, but we also know that other countries are now increasing all kinds of burdens. Energy costs in Germany have not decreased over the last 20 years, but increased. So all countries are doing exactly the opposite. They see that they have a task and they are rightly in the process of collecting the burdens from the parties that emit it. That is not quite proportional yet, but we are all going in the same direction. A year ago, when I last looked at the statistics, the Netherlands stood at number 3 out of 28 when it comes to the share of environmental taxes in our taxes, but the Germans are also able to do something about it. So no, I don't think we're organizing a race to the bottom. We are there together, in the realization that things have to happen, slowly getting the burdens, the external effects, where they belong. But we still have some way to go. As far as I am concerned, the ETS system has to do this in the long term, but in the meantime we are also making things up for ourselves. After all, we have a climate agreement and then you are not going to wait for the ETS system. More about that later. Mr Pijlman also had a question about the SDE's budgetary reserve. There is an amount of 1.7 billion and that amount remains available for the purpose. He also added that the SDE will not lose its funds. There was once a signature because the project pipeline was not filled enough, but the autumn round was again overdrawn. I can assure him that if we want to reach 49%, it is not the case that we can compensate for all the uneconomic summits. For example, we have had to say to industry that they will have to cover a large proportion of these uneconomic summits themselves in order to reach 49%. There is therefore no surplus to SDE and the autumn round was overdrawn. Mr. Chairman. I think I've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u24	Thank you. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers, since Mr Earthema has not signed up for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. In these dark days before Christmas, I find it a disappointing reaction. This has to do with the velvet gloves with which the Minister takes up the interests of business, which is nevertheless the largest CO-polluter. I hear him say: coherence, integral, waiting, climate tables and Europe. But all this indicates that it may be a while before we change that unjust division. This is in stark contrast to the interests of the households that are being billed here today. Now I like metaphors, so I thought: if we see the importance of business as a vase, and if we see the importance of households as a vase, then you could say that they are dealt with differently. Household support is fragile and fragile.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u26	That's a delicate vase, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u27	That's a very delicate vase. The one is better off with a bump, but the interests of households are fragile. In our view, this already calls for an adjustment of the burden-sharing system. Now I have the suspicion that the present proposal, which concerns the 2019 energy bill, will be adopted, despite all the concerns I hear about it from many parties outside this Chamber. But aside from that... That is why we have prepared a motion that will lead to the burden-sharing from 2020 onwards, in the hope that this motion will receive a large majority of this Chamber, so that we do not have the same debate again next year. The President shall: Mr Fiers, Mr Reuten, Mr Binnema, Mr Van Leeuwen, Mr Koffeman and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas storage of renewable energy is linked to the overall package of climate action as discussed at the climate tables, the elaboration of the Climate Law and other adjacent laws;]] [[Whereas it is important to achieve, as soon as possible, a more equitable distribution of charges between households and businesses on the basis of the polluter-pays principle;]] [[calls on the Government to adjust the current burden ratio for households in setting renewable energy storage rates for 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35004-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answers. I said at first that this Act ODE was introduced by the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. It is good to say here that this cabinet, when it comes to the energy transition, has made considerable changes. Compliment for that. But there's also an extraordinary amount coming at us. The Minister is also asking whether this law is still in line with the energy transition and the cost of the energy transition, and whether the distribution of 50/50 is still fair. That appeals to us very much. I hope to hear more about it on Friday, and I hope that when the whole package of energy transition measures is on the table, a fair sharing of costs will be re-examined. The costs that this law raises for citizens, some €50, are reflected in purchasing power, but that does not mean that the citizen feels the same. It only reads and hears about an increase in charges, but I hope that in January it will also see in its paycheck that taxes have been reduced. I have said in the first instance that this requires very targeted communication from the public authorities and that this may be less traditional at this time than it has been so far. At European level, I call once again for SDE and ETS to ensure that the costs that the industry has to incur are not lost in the competitive position of industry and energy companies. That remains a focus. I am glad to hear that the under-utilisation at SDE+ has now been resolved, and that the autumn round was also overwritten, so that we can move forward quickly to provide the Netherlands with more renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u29	I have a question for Mr. Arrowman. You are also working on the figures and, like the Minister, you are trying to trivialize the amount. But I'm sure you'll agree with me that, despite compensation, the charges are going up anyway. And then, for example, we did not even include the Polish summit and the results of the climate tables. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u30	I was just saying that I absolutely take the people who see that energy bill going up. I also asked the Minister, first of all, whether he agrees with me that the people in social housing are the first to invest in it and that they are the first to feel the positive effects of the energy transition in the wallet. I'd like to hear another answer to that. And yes, when it comes to the objective of the energy transition, we are completely on the other side of the playing field. You are a climate denier and I think we need to work very hard to keep the effects of climate change manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u31	Mr. Earthema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u32	I said in my speech that people who do may suffer a bit of delusion of grandeur, but I think you are a nice man, so I am not going to accuse you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u33	That'll save you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u34	Are you almost done with your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u35	I'm almost done with my input...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u36	You've been over your time for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u37	I'm also interrupted, Mr. Chairman, but I'm around...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u38	No, no, because then I stopped the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u39	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. If it's all right with you, I'll respond immediately to the motion and I'll be done. Or would you rather I do that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u40	You're responding to what motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u41	Mrs. Fiers' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u42	But you've been running out of time for almost a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u43	Then I'll stop and do it later. That's good, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u45	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Fiers calls me someone with velvet gloves. This sudden change of character is all too eager for me. I think it'll surprise my family. I must dissuade her motion, not because this could not be the outcome, but because I believe that only with good justification can I save both people's energy bills and their jobs. That's why I think this is premature. We're gonna see what comes out of there, and then we're gonna be able to control what the space is for that and how we can deal with it. I therefore advise against this motion. I appreciate Mr Pijlman's call to see how we can take next steps, particularly in the European context. I also agree with him that social housing is an obvious place to start quickly with the transition in the built environment. That is exactly the intention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Ollongren, who is now trying to start this transition. In this she tries to take steps with large corporations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u46	You're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u47	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u48	I'm slightly flabbergasted. That's not Dutch, but I'll use that word anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-27.u49	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then we will vote at the end of the sitting on the legislative proposal and on the motion tabled. I shall suspend shortly before the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation arrives.
