ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the clean-up of drinking water. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. We have seven speakers from the Chamber and we also have a maiden speech. The first speaker is Mr Laçin of the SP Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Clean drinking water is a primary need for life. That is why it is good and necessary that we often debate this issue in this House. It is necessary because it is becoming increasingly difficult for drinking water companies to keep drinking water clean. Medicine residues, agricultural emissions and an increasing range of emerging and unknown substances are making this challenge ever greater and therefore the process is increasingly costly. In previous debates, the SP has repeatedly asked for clarification on the additional annual treatment costs of around EUR 35 million. We have not yet received a clear answer from the Minister. However, the Minister wrote in her letter of 6 February that she would like to explore in the long term whether polluting companies might have to pay extra for the junk they dispose of. In the eyes of the SP, this is not a quick solution for the users of drinking water who see their water bills rise, without them being able to do anything about it. The user now pays, that confirms drinking water companies in response to our questions. I would like to hear from the Minister what the exploration with administrative partners has achieved so far and when she expects to develop and implement the 'polluter pays' principle. Mr. Chairman. Last week we read that GenX is on the nomination to be on the list of very worrying substances. We welcome that. We hope that the Minister will make every effort to achieve this in the short term and that she will also support the initiative of the German UBA at European level. In this way, we can further limit and eventually ban the discharges of GenX by Chemours. I would like to make a few comments about Chemours. Do we now have the list of names of companies that Chemours GenX delivers to? If not, is the claim already underway towards Chemours, so that we can quickly know where our drinking water is threatened? Last week we also read that Chemours does not want to pay for 681 blood shots made possible by the municipality of Sliedrecht. I would like to emphasise it once again. For decades, people's health has been compromised, our environment is ruined, and then we don't get across the bridge for blood shots that have been taken because of chemical crap from Chemours. We find that scandalous. Mr. Chairman. We want the Minister to take rapid action to keep our drinking water clean. In addition to a European commitment, this can also be done at national level, for example by granting discharge permits only if water quality requirements have been established for the substances concerned. What does the Minister think of this and what possibilities does she see for taking national measures? Finally. An integrated and effective approach to improving water quality requires clear agreements on deployment, funding, monitoring, monitoring and enforcement between all relevant authorities and drinking water companies. This requires concrete agreements between all the parties concerned. The quality of the sources is under pressure from existing and new threats. As far as we are concerned, these concrete agreements can be established by renewing the Water Management Agreement of 2011. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u3	To the second accurate! And then a happy fact: Mr Sienot's maiden speech. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Solar-powered subcars, energy-neutral houses, beetle balls. As an entrepreneur behind the green website, I learned that our ingenuity to come up with sustainable solutions for the way we travel, live, eat, in short, live, is almost endless. But I also saw that those front runners can't do it alone. For the green, climate-proof economy, we need a government that dares to look ahead, to guard the long-term. That experience was perhaps the main reason for me to go into politics, as a city council member for D66 Utrecht. After the installation of the greenest cabinet I am now a Member of Parliament. For 115 days, I've been jumping out of my bed every morning full of energy. I'd like to go through with that for hundreds of more days. Mr. Chairman. Even when it comes to keeping our drinking water clean, our ingenuity is almost endless. This glass of healthy and clean tap water has already gone through someone's kidneys twice. The main source, the Meuse, in dry periods mainly consists of purified sewage. Used to be when we wanted clean water in The Hague, we walked with buckets to the dunes, and now it just comes from the crane, thanks to a pipe network of almost 120,000 kilometers. That's three times around the Earth. And we think it's very common for all of us. Mr. Chairman. Our drinking water companies are rightly proud of our clean drinking water. But do we keep it clean? The amount of drug residues in soil and surface water is growing, as is the amount of unknown chemicals. RIVM has now drawn up a list of 327 substances which are potentially very worrying. This will allow better control and enforcement of discharges and emissions of these substances. This cabinet also invests heavily in better waterboard installations to filter drug residues from the waste. That is necessary, but D66 also wants to prevent medicines from ending up in our surface water, because what is not in the water you don't have to take out. Together with the Christian Union, D66 recently asked for a better source approach. Can the Minister tell us what is going on with the implementation of our motions on this matter? Mr. Chairman. Climate change also affects our drinking water. A higher sea level means that dirty substances are being disposed of worse. During dry summers, dirty substances can drain out worse, while demand for fresh water increases. Add all these threats together and you understand that our drinking water sources are under pressure. Moreover, the fight for clean drinking water does not stop at the borders of municipalities, provinces and water boards. Also polluted water flows where it can go. Recently agreements have been made between, among others, the Empire, the waterboards and the municipalities. Water quality is mentioned, but especially in the context of a vital countryside with as little harmful effects as possible from fertilisers and plant protection products. That's very good. I didn't even mention the threat of agriculture to our freshwater resources. But for all the different sources of pollution I have mentioned, there are now separate programmes involving a great many different authorities and bodies. That requires good cooperation and coordination. So how is this cabinet going to protect our drinking water from the new threats, such as drug residues and climate change? How does it streamline the cooperation between these different agencies? I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. We are very curious about the Minister's answers, because my motto in the search for a green economy is: "I want to know what is happening and how you see it." So we move forward together, with the facts as a basis, to a sustainable world, which is just as obvious as water from the tap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u5	I'd say cheers! You may also bring the glass as a reminder. Then you can paste it into your photo book. Nice story! You have a lot of energy. I understand you've been getting out of bed with energy every morning for 115 days. I hope it stays that way. I hope the next time you're standing here you'll be a little faster. I would like to congratulate you on your very first speech here in plenary. I have the honour to congratulate you first. There may also be others who would like to congratulate you. I see flowers, too. I'm gonna suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u6	The flowers are being confiscated. We are now going to listen to Mr Geurts from the CDA group. Like everyone else, he has three minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Sienot on his maiden speech. I thought it was a nice personal story; I'll see the first canoe coming along soon. I also hope that Mr Sienot enjoyed it, because it was the only time we could not interrupt him! Mr. Chairman. In which country can you drink water from the tap? Exactly: in the Netherlands. The Dutch tap water is of top quality. Our drinking water companies carry out programmes to monitor drinking water quality. In any case, we can conclude that 99.9% of the measurements meet the drinking water standards. Standard crossings are occasional in character, I recently read in the report of the Inspection Environment and Transport, and that is reassuring. However, the CDA Group also realises that we must continue to work on maintaining clean drinking water. We come from a period when the effort was in the Netherlands to drain the water to the North Sea as quickly as possible. Over the coming decades, we will focus on the retention of water in the Netherlands and that will bring challenges. Contaminated water is less diluted and the production of drinking water may require additional efforts from water boards and drinking water companies. If the Minister has any indication of the efforts that are required, I would like to ask through the President. In a technical sense, but also financially? And what concrete projects are there to tackle medicines and microplastics in the water? Mr. Chairman. RIVM has published a new list of 327 potentially very worrying substances. This is next to a list of some 1,400 substances, of which the Netherlands has indicated its desire to opt out: the very worrying substances. These substances are dangerous to humans and the environment, for example because they are carcinogenic or hinder reproduction. So it's a list to take seriously. When I went into the list of 327 substances, I found that they could be substances that have not yet been evaluated or some of which are lacking. How worrying is a potentially very worrying substance, then, so I wondered. What can municipalities and water boards do with such a list that RIVM has just published? And a question I have: what is the legal status of this list? And what can licensed agents do with it? I would have liked to have answered that by the Minister. I have learned that concerns about health and safety of the environment and human beings can also involve other aspects. A well-known example from the United Kingdom is the discussion about falling trees and branches. Several experts advised the government to control all the trees in the UK. So the risk could be reduced. However, in the context of the opinion there was the earning model that resulted in the checks. A much older example, from the seventeenth century, was the resistance to the consumption of the then still new drink coffee. Most of the baddest stories went around. It is more likely that the British elite wanted to protect their tea plantations and the French elite. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. In short, we must act on the basis of scientific knowledge and on the basis of practical solutions. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u8	Thank you. Mr Remco Dijkstra from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Sienot on his maiden speech. That's always a good time. And this subject is also a nice social subject to start with. I hope you will be active here in the Chamber for many days to come. You can also keep track: on the site you can see exactly how many days that is. You can celebrate every day with a clean glass of water as far as I'm concerned, because we are of course economical. I understand that people are worried when you read that water in the river is too dirty or that, for example, water quality is at risk in connection with discharges. But Dutch drinking water is safe, it is clean and of very high quality. In the Netherlands, we can also drink the water directly from the tap.That is not possible anywhere in the world. As a VVD, we'd like to keep it that way. We do this by making strict agreements on discharges and the purification of water. The Minister should, in turn, indicate the causes of pollution and how it can be reduced. Experience has shown that, when it comes to drinking water and determining water quality, there is always a lot of discussion about the standards and the causes. I repeat the mantra:'measuring is knowing'. And scientifically, I join Mr Geurts. Rules are enough as far as we are concerned. But also abroad is important, because we also get a lot through rivers like the Meuse and the Rhine. It may be a strange question, but does it sometimes not go cleaner into the North Sea than it does into our country? It could be so and so there too: measuring is knowing. If we do that, we can also take appropriate measures. The VVD also wants attention to be paid to the taxpayer's perspective, because it is responsible for the costs of water treatment. Dangerous substances placed on the market are reported at European level and there are also dossiers on the risks of substances, for example the very worrying substances in the REACH Regulation. The government can also use this information when applying for a permit, but my question is whether we are doing enough. Do we have enough knowledge of that? Furthermore, do we have sufficient capacity to do so, as it may in some cases be limited? I want to know whether what I say is true about this knowledge and capacity and what can be done about it. I have an idea about that myself. I am thinking, for example, of former workers from water supply companies or from the chemical industry who are now retired. They are sometimes eager to give their opinion with a lot of knowledge. Can't we use these people? We have also suggested this on a regular basis for knowledge-intensive industries such as chemistry and petrochemicals. Why don't we do that in the water sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u10	I find it an interesting proposal to hire pensioners as volunteers, but I have a question about something else. Does Mr Dijkstra also think that the polluter should pay, including in the case of water treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u11	The polluter pays principle is a liberal principle, and we will undoubtedly share it. It is sometimes a little more complicated in the way it is worked out, because who exactly is the polluter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u12	Well, the people who are dumping substances that you were just about to volunteer on to see if those substances are in the water. It concerns the people who dispose of substances, i.e. agriculture, industry, mining and, possibly, the drug residues of hospitals. We've heard the whole list before. Should those who bring pollutants into our water be the ones who pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u13	It sounds very nice, but it's also complicated. Because then who is the polluter? Is that the one who takes the medicine and gets it into the sewer through the toilet, or is it the manufacturer of the drugs? "The polluter pays" sounds very nice, but its implementation is quite complicated. For example, how do you ensure that you know the origin of these substances? Who actually discharged these substances? So it sounds good, but sometimes it's a little complicated to execute. I think the current method is actually just a very good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u14	I shall continue with Mrs Van Tongeren's question. The polluter pays principle can be complicated. But can I put it this way: does the VVD group also think that the users who are paying for it now, millions of Dutch people, should not pay for these price increases due to additional purifications?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u15	I'm not as worried about these price increases as the sector. We end up paying everything together, and I don't feel like changing whole systems right now. I think we've figured out how we've handled it now, both in terms of water quality and the way we calculate and calculate it, super clean water at relatively low costs, especially when compared to abroad. Let's cherish that and keep it that way, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u16	It is remarkable to hear that the sector is concerned and that Mr Dijkstra has no sense of concern. That sounds a little weird, but okay. According to the VVD, the system is good at the moment: we have clean water and everything is fine. So we shouldn't change anything about it. My question to Mr Dijkstra concerns the sector. The price increases are passed on to users who do not ask for chemical discharges into their drinking water, into their water. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u17	To come back to the words "no sense," that may be wrong and therefore I replace them with "no need." As far as I am concerned, it is well arranged as it is now. Ninety-nine points so much of our drinking water is just right. It is being monitored for new substances, and we need to stay focused on them, because we are never done with them. But it is not that our drinking water is bad and that there are excesses everywhere. It happens all the time, and then we measure it. That's how we know and we can control it. There are also costs involved, but what I do not want is that the drinking water supply companies say: we do not want to pay those costs ourselves, and so we have to tell them in industry or anyone else. That's complicated, because who actually discharged? The drinking water supply companies are concerned about the long-term burden. That, I believe, was the reason for the SP to request this debate. In my opinion, these companies should also take responsibility, and I do not feel like it? There's no need! To change that whole system right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u18	I very much welcome Mr Dijkstra's remark, which says 'the polluter pays' is a good principle. At least we can think about that together. Does he therefore think that the bill for the measures contained in the coalition agreement and what there are serious concerns about, for example the sludge load that is coming because we are going to clean sludge, should not end up with the citizens? Because we can say every time: 'we don't know who put it in there', but eventually all the citizens of the Netherlands are going to pay and not those polluters. So will we then, together, this committee with the Ministry, take up the challenge of looking for the one who really pollutes it, so that it gets the bill and no longer all citizens are the victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u19	What I just said: it's pretty complicated. The polluter pays principle is a very good and also liberal principle. It is about taking responsibility and paying the bill for it, but it is rather complicated to carry it out consistently. What you see very nicely in the coalition agreement is that we take out drug residues and other substances and also see what we can do with information. Who has what responsibility? What is the responsibility of drinking water companies and manufacturers of medicines? What can you do with information on the route towards the consumer? He's ultimately the one who uses things and gets them through the sewer into the water. So I think it requires a total chain approach, where you're also thinking circularly. You want to take out the substances that are in the water. Maybe they can still be used. You can see that water supply companies do the same themselves. They either turn it into energy or take out paper scraps and the like. So there are nice steps to take and we will continue to do so with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u20	One more point. What you say about the liberal principle is very appealing to me. Everyone has to take responsibility, but we often see that when it comes to paying, often companies that do not want to take responsibility for it. Can we then see together that we think you are on our side that the polluter really has to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u21	If I may give you a simple answer, yes, but with a few conditions. Of course, it must also be feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u22	I hear Mr Dijkstra saying that he is doing well. And it is doing so now, but the point we are having this debate is precisely the threats, so the developments with drug residues, with agricultural poison, with chemicals, also unknown new chemicals. These developments occur and they pose a threat to our drinking water sources. I don't hear about that. I am very curious to hear your views on this and what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u23	The signals themselves are to be taken seriously, but I would point out that everyone who sends these signals, in this case the drinking water supply companies, has a responsibility to intervene if necessary. As far as we are concerned, they must bear these costs themselves. I do not think we should say now: the government must intervene in advance. That's kind of a plea from a lobbyist's point of view. What's good is that you're working with each other and that you have those threats, which are undoubtedly there... You yourself mentioned climate and salinity, but also drug residues. The government has an approach to this and there are means to do so. But to say right now, "here's a bag of money, go ahead"... No, this is a shared responsibility. With us, the starting point is affordability for the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u24	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u25	And quality for the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u26	May I conclude from this that you do share our call for better cooperation and streamlining of all these different programmes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u27	Also a short answer: yes, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u28	I have already heard Mr Laçin on this course of interruption. Once more and at a distance from the microphone, because we know your voice. I can't turn you down, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to talk quietly. I hear Mr Dijkstra say a number of times that drinking water companies must take responsibility and pay the costs involved. Is he saying that the drinking water companies are not taking their responsibility at the moment? I have been to work a number of times and have seen that drinking water companies are doing all kinds of innovations to purify as much as possible. What does Mr Dijkstra actually say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u30	I don't have the impression they're avoiding their responsibility. I think they take responsibility and supply clean drinking water to millions of people in the Netherlands every day. They really have to perform an achievement for that, and they do. That's what they're charging for. A large proportion of them simply tax the consumer. It still gets good water for a relatively low price. It is just well arranged in the Netherlands, we cannot deny that. For the VVD, it is important that parties work together to agree on the responsibilities and outcomes, so that they are taken into account in a common approach between the government and all other parties. Think, for example, of the structural approach to emerging substances. That is where I think the biggest concern lies, at least with me: in the chemicals, of which we do not know exactly what they all do. This is currently being worked on by the Ministry. You can work together there. Finally, Mr President. If there's money to be distributed, everyone's in the front. There is approximately 30 million for the disposal of drug residues from wastewater. The VVD wants this money to be used effectively. Not to countless experiments or innovations, that's very nice, but you should also allow for a large-scale roll-out. Scalable projects, such as those for which the Minister recently, I believe in Brabant, raised €400,000. What is really effective and what does the Minister think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u31	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u32	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my congratulations to Mr Sienot of D66, who made his maiden speech. In the committee and in the plenary debate, we will continue to cross swords on a regular basis. I'm sure you'll be fine. It hasn't been so long since the water companies sounded the alarm. The Dutch drinking water is incredibly clean, but it seems increasingly difficult to maintain that high quality. The reason for this is that increasingly emerging substances are being discharged into our water. In particular, the discharge of GenX has led to a lot of tumult. Thousands of citizens were concerned about the quality of their drinking water. We should've stopped that unrest. Let us first take a critical look at the dubious role played by the waterboards. They were completely surprised when they found GenX in their water, while there was a permit elsewhere, issued by the province. So that information wasn't requested. A little dumb, we call that in good Dutch. Also recently it came to light that the waterboards sometimes do not carry out any checks at all, as with the ditches around the artificial grass fields. Although they had to check for possible pollution, they have not done so once in the last ten years. If the waterboards are constantly calling the bell too late or do not even carry out any research at all, what do they add? The PVV is not convinced of the existence of the water boards. That is why I will once again ask the government to abolish the waterboards and place their tasks with the provinces. The granting of licences is not in order either. Both Rijkswaterstaat, as well as the water boards, and the environmental services are authorized to issue permits. If something goes wrong, they point the finger at each other. We all know that if everyone is responsible, no one is ultimately responsible. In addition, it appears that only one out of five chemical companies supply files is being audited. It is important that authorisation should be taken much more seriously in future. It is therefore wise to have all the necessary permits issued by only one body. It can then clearly profile itself, attract all the necessary expertise and assume full responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u33	Thank you. Mrs Van Tongeren from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u34	Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mr Sienot. I thought he was already an old rot in the business and was surprised that this was only the first time he made a speech in plenary. It was a very nice speech, so best is for the last saved at D66. Then about our drinking water. This has a very good reputation in the Netherlands and GroenLinks would very much like to keep it, so that bottled water is used as little as possible in households. Because a bottle of drinking water is about 100 times as bad for the environment as the same amount of water you get from the tap. That is why we once managed to drink out of these cans rather than out of bottles in the Chamber. Then there are the various sources that unfortunately threaten our beautiful drinking water and also its reputation. That is, among other things, agriculture. Water intake points are closed because there are too many fertilisers in the water. I am curious to see how the Minister looks at this and what she intends to do about it. I would like to endorse all the points made by the SP about companies and GenX. I would suggest to the Minister that instead of every time we find a substance, we should find out what the hell it is, what it is like in REACH and what it should be, say that substances should not be discharged until they are known. Then we turn it around. Only things that we already know and which have been approved, which are not harmful, should be allowed in and new things should be allowed in. Then the whole subject of mining. Fortunately, the Minister for Economic Affairs has promised that shale gas will now be removed from the structural vision. That gives a lot of relief, even in the water-winning companies, because there is less chance of toxic waste water being injected into our soil, but it is still happening. There is much pollution in Twente by Akzo, but also by the injection of toxic waste water from the extraction in Schoonebeek. I am curious to see how the Minister looks at this and how she intends to deal with it. I hear from all sides an enormous enthusiasm in the field for a water management agreement 2.0. I think the Minister is working on this, but I think it is interesting for the Chamber to know where we are, where we are and whether these types of points are included. You already heard it in the interrupting debate with the VVD, the 'polluter pays' principle. Then it is said that it is suddenly so difficult and that it cannot be arranged. I think this minister is quite capable of looking at that. It will not always be with scissors to cut, but from the companies that cause pollution we know that and they should pay more. GroenLinks is also curious about how the minister looks at the discharge of hot water. Because in hot water there is energy and there may be a useful application for that. With climate change, our surface water is already getting warmer and you can lose less, but you certainly shouldn't have that hot water there. Can't we find much better useful applications for that? How does the Minister view this? Would she also like to promote this? And then I got to the end of my line, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u35	It flew by. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Brenk from the 50PLUS group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u36	Mr. Chairman. I've got a second less. Congratulations to Mr Sienot. I look forward to many debates with you. Welcome to this committee. In Cape Town there is a threat of total drought. Already the population is on a water ration and by 12 April it is run out. Think of the fact that there is no more water, that the situation is so alarming, and look at the Netherlands. Fantastic: clean drinking water. We'll even go through the bathroom with it. That's the difference. 50PLUS visited Dunea and we saw how the water is processed. It seems so obvious, but it's fantastic. Because it is so obvious, in the region of South Holland, where 800,000 houses are to be built, no one at administrative level had thought that you should also include a drinking water company: does it fit in with logistics and permits? Our question to the Minister is what she thinks of that. Does she recognize that it is so common that no one is thinking about the drinking water companies? They have to be involved in such large construction projects by default, don't they? The 2011 administrative water agreement expires in 2020. For us, it is good if this continues, but we believe it is important to reach concrete agreements on measurable objectives, commitment and resources to promote water quality. I would like to hear the Minister's position. Awareness. In our view, it is extremely important that we also show the public that careful handling of water is an important thing. Can the Minister think about a public campaign to stimulate and increase that awareness? In the last legislative consultation on Water, in which we had a motion on extending the green deal, the Minister asked for it to be held for a while because it started working. Can she tell us anything about the progress? MEP Schreijer-Pierik is in the process of investigating the negative effects of emerging substances. That is good news as far as we are concerned. Is the Minister prepared to keep an eye on this issue at European level as well? As far as we're concerned, every second counts. And you know, 50PLUS is, in my person, Ambassador of Sustainable Development Goal 6 on the importance of clean drinking water and sewage. We are committed to indicating the importance here and worldwide, and we hope that the Minister will also support it. Finally. I have a petition here with an emergency cry from the water engineering sector. I'd like to give it to the messenger to hand it over to the minister. I would ask the Minister to talk to this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u37	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u38	Mrs Van Brenk was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. I shall suspend for ten minutes, until 7.30 p.m., so that the Minister can give some thought to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u39	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my reply, I too would like to officially congratulate Mr Sienot on his maiden speech. That's always a good time to mark. I'll toast it with a glass of water. I am going to follow the order of the speakers on a global basis. Then, of course, we will find doubles, because there are a lot of issues that have been raised by almost all the speakers. Let me start with the story about GenX right away. That has been brought forward by a lot of people. Mr Laçin asked: what are you going to do to prevent such discharges in the future? In fact, I would like to say that this is not just about what I am going to do or what the Ministry is going to do, but above all about what we are going to do with all of us. Because, of course, this is about the whole chain, from the beginning with the producer to the end at the purification. There are all kinds of steps in this direction, and each one has its own responsibility. Both the Empire and all other governments already have instruments to impose requirements on discharges of chemicals. For the Empire, of course, that is the Drinking Water Act and the Water Framework Directive. And of course we also have the duty of care and system responsibility for drinking water. The other governments, of course, often operate as competent authorities. They therefore require either a customisation requirement in a permit on the basis of the Activity Decision. Producers, of course, also have their role to play in the provision of information to the competent authority. For example, there is a requirement under the REACH Regulation. They need to ensure the best available techniques. They too have a duty of care. So everyone has their own responsibility and has to take it. I, of course, have worked hard on this as a minister, through the implementation of this structural approach of emerging substances. And I expect the same from everyone in the chain. Specifically about GenX, Mr Laçin just told me that he had given his maiden speech about Chemours among others. You ask: has the ILT received this list of customers of GenX-containing products? The answer to that is: yes, that list was received on Thursday 15 February. That list will be shared with the competent authorities, or has already been shared with the Brabant competent authority and with DCMR. They can use that list to form an image where and where GenX emissions could possibly occur. The Environment Service Brabant Noord and DCMR Zuid-Holland have therefore been informed. It remains to be determined which other environmental services are still to be informed. So these two organisations are already up and running, and we are still trying to figure out which other organisations need to be informed. That's going to happen very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u40	Glad to hear that's settled now. But what does the Minister think about Chemours not wanting to release at first to whom all these products were delivered? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u41	Well, I am concerned that when Chemours was seriously called upon to do so, they simply cooperated. Well, we would have preferred it sooner, of course, but it was delivered within the agreed deadline; just one day before that deadline ended. Well, that's what we're working on right now and we hope to get more clarity and more grip. Research is also being carried out to gain insight into the company's waste streams. The company's working on that, too. That's a trial that's gonna get picked up, too. We'll see who might be using it. We are still working on that step, but the company has promised its cooperation to get a map of it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u42	That's nice. But I would say: do not hesitate to intervene in this company, because it is really a black sheep in the sector. In fact, this company only gets over the bridge if it really comes to shove. We simply need to cooperate more quickly and proactively. That's my message to the company. I think this company is really under the magnifying glass. That is purely a matter for oneself, because one has just made a mess of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u43	I think that both the Secretary of State and I have been very clear about this and that we have actually said: this company needs to deliver it properly and otherwise we are going to make it, so to speak. We're definitely going through with that mentality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u44	It will not happen often, but I very much agree with Mr Dijkstra...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u45	I think that is a good observation; you can just stop doing that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u46	...about his stance towards Chemours. The Minister says that Chemours has cooperated, but in the AO External Security we have had with the Secretary of State, we have heard quite different signals and words from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u47	They finally cooperated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u48	That might be a good addition: they finally cooperated. So I hope that we in the Chamber will be able to see the list they have provided very quickly, so that we can also continue with the debate on Chemours and all the other companies that pollute our environment. But my question is about what you said before. It is true that the whole chain, the sector has a responsibility in reducing these discharges and damaging our environment. However, the point is that we do not know the long-term effect on our health, for example, of many of the substances that come on the market or are used and end up in our environment. We still don't know what the long-term effects on our health are. So we can say that everyone has a responsibility in that, but if we do not know the consequences, how are we going to conclude afterwards that it should never have happened? Then we'll go after the facts. How are we gonna change that? That is the essential question in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u49	The first part of Mr Laçin was actually not a question but a response, but I would like to respond to that. Mr Laçin says: I hope that we in the Chamber will soon get that list. Then I must disappoint you, because the company has made the list available, but only to share it with competent authorities, because it contains company confidential information. If you know who you're delivering to, it's competitive. So we can't share that information with you, but we can share it with all the competent authorities so that they can act. Then there are the potentially worrying substances. If you will allow me, I will return to that in the rest of the reply in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u50	Mr Laçin, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u51	To the first reaction: Chemours is a company that has been under fire and underneath the magnifying glass for a long time; it also owes it to itself. During the AO External Security we also made it very clear that we as a Chamber need to be informed about this, because we know that Chemours is the only company in Europe that can work with GenX in the production process. Now it pops up everywhere and threatens our drinking water, among other things. That is why I would ask you once again to ensure that the Chamber, whether it is the whole list or not, gets the information so that we know where our drinking water is threatened and we can work with it. I believe that this is essential for the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u52	I fully understand Mr Laçin's need, and others have already responded to it. I'm going to see what's possible within the legal system we have, whether we can arrange more information, whether confidential or not, for you to see. I'm going to do my best to do that, and I'll let you know what's legally possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u53	I'm gonna need some clarity anyway. Everyone has to abide by the rules; that certainly applies to Chemours. Now we have the discussion. I'm glad the list's here. During the AO External Security, we spoke very clearly about this, but I would like the Minister's clarification as to how to deliver that list. I was told by Chemours that at the time of the AO External Security, the ILT has not even made the request to provide that list. Can the Minister at least clarify whether or not Chemours wanted to participate in that list?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u54	The fact that we now have that list has shown that Chemours has been involved in this. I cannot answer questions about exact dates on which the ILT asked for anything. The fact is that we have the list, that it has been shared with DCMR and with the Brabant environmental service and that we are currently exploring where there are other supplies elsewhere in the country and which competent authorities fit in with it, so that they are also informed and able to check where it is wise to carry out a possible further investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u55	We may speak harsh words about Chemours when they do not comply with the law. The Secretary of State spoke in the AO shame about Chemours. I'm fine with it if it really is. If it turns out that ILT at that time, on that committee day, did not ask for the list and Chemours then cooperated to deliver that list, I think it would be appropriate for us to let us know about it in that way too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u56	I thought I'd stick to the facts. I said they finally cooperated. We received the list a day before the deadline expires. That's all I have to say. Mr Laçin also asked about the application of the 'polluter pays' principle in relation to the treatment of drinking water. Mrs Van Tongeren and others have also spoken about this. As you know, users cover the costs of drinking water companies. The polluter pays for pollution of surface and groundwater. This is done by means of the pollution levy and by means of a purification levy for both citizens and businesses. With diffuse sources, it is more difficult to know exactly who pollutes what, but I understand the need. I myself feel the urge of "if you throw garbage in the water, you'll pay for it too!', When I say it neatly. In cooperation with the administrative partners, with Vewin, the Union of Water Councils, the VNG and the IPO, I am working to improve the application of the polluter pays principle, including for diffuse sources. This is also done on the basis of the results of the Committee on the Adaptation of the Union of Water Boards, which is also explicitly working on this. He's coming up with some advice this year. As soon as that advice is available, I would like to inform the Chamber further, because I share that feeling with you. There has also been a request, among others by Mr Sienot, for follow-up agreements in a new Water Management Agreement. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about it, like Mr Laçin and almost everyone else: the water agreement 2.0; everyone has used their own term for it. As Mr Sienot pointed out, there are many different greminas and you should know that the noses are moving in the same direction and that you are pursuing the same goals. What kind of water quality governance agreement should we get now? We're gonna bring it all together. The Delta approach Water quality is already there, including the measures. The structural approach to emerging substances will be part of it. We really want to go ahead with this, including with concrete agreements. Attention will also be paid to monitoring, available instruments, research programme, funding and legislation. So the whole palette is shown: what is needed and where can we improve things? These are things that we all stand for and in which each of us will take on his own role. In what form is that going to happen? As far as I am concerned, it may be a light form, as long as there is a hard signature underneath it, so that people keep the agreements to be made. I myself am willing to stick my neck out for that and start talking to the stakeholders about this. I almost forgot one point. That is a specific point that I have also made to the Water Management Agreement, namely that cybersecurity needs to be addressed. If there is one critical infrastructure, a basic condition for all of us to live well, it is the healthy drinking water. So that too must be well secured at the back, so that it cannot be compromised by any cyberattack. Public consultation with stakeholders is already underway in order to reach that action programme. We're going to work that out administratively in the near future and also record that in the Water Steering Group. I hope to be able to provide you with a detailed document on this subject for the general consultation of Water in June. Mr Sienot also asked about the motions on a source approach to medicines. This is part of the programme of water medicine, which has been co-arrested by means of the coalition agreement, as you know. That program focuses on the whole chain, including change of behavior. The way in which this is done is also extremely important. We're going to present that in June. We also pay attention to this in communication. We have the Week of Our Water, which we repeat over and over again. We see very good reactions to that. We are going to use this in this context too. We have recently been able to honour projects. I have been able to make the first €400,000 grant available to the Aa and Maas waterboard to really start something that will help remove drug residues with a new innovative approach from drinking water in a better way. Of course, it is intended that it is really picked up by other water boards and by the other partners, not to invent a new wheel every time, but also to mass up and get a real scale jump there. I come to a question raised by Mr Geurts, among others: what additional efforts are needed? As stated in the letter of 5 July 2017 on the structural approach to emerging substances, this has already started. The drinking water testing in the case of authorisation is more clearly defined in the Authorisations Manual and the Immission Test Manual. There has also been an additional supply of drinking water for a better review of those emerging substances for which there is no legal standard yet. It'll be ready before the summer. I shall, of course, inform the Chamber about this. I also share Mr Geurts' wish that there should be a sound scientific basis. For this we can also rely on the knowledge and expertise of RIVM among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u57	Let me ask you something. The minister mentioned the hand-off for the immunity test. I think it comes from a motion that I have taken over from former Minister Schulz, but I do not think it has yet been tabled. I heard the Minister say that there is, but I understand that we have not yet received it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u58	I'll check it out. I will inform the Chamber in writing, if that's all right with you. In any case, for the next AO Water in the collection letter, we will make a proper report on this. For the summer, that extra hand-out must also be ready and then we can take that into account in one report. You have all been able to take note of the RIVM list of potentially very worrying substances. Mr Geurts even mentioned the numbers. That is another new instrument we have. Risk-based monitoring is carried out by the drinking water companies, also to identify problem substances for drinking water earlier. Then you'll say, "How do you do that?" Before that, of course, they have the old tests with the water fleas, which I have also been able to see recently during a work visit to the Afdamde Maas at the catch-up point Brakel van Dunea. Mrs Van Brenn also made a fair point about this. Indeed, many people do not realize that the water that we are extracting from the tap here in The Hague comes from a 70 kilometer long pipe of the Aedamde Maas. So I've seen how that works there on the spot. Those water fleas just need healthy water. When anything happens, I don't want to say: on his side, it goes a bit crooked, there are signals, all the alarm bells go off and everything is analyzed. I found it special myself to see that in this policy area, in the water world, that is the canary in the mine. Excuse me, I looked up, because Mrs Van Tongeren had a very visual reaction. I'm gonna go back to being serious. Due to the water boards, this risk-based monitoring is carried out in a very careful way. We are also working on an improvement path in the implementation of the authorisation. Training courses and knowledge exchange between licence providers are under way. The knowledge about GenX is shared with the environmental services by the water boards, DCMR and Brabant, who are already working on it. There may also be customers of Chemours products, to name but a few. We're gonna help them with that. The Ministry is particularly committed to broadening and exchanging knowledge between water experts. We are going to work on better incident coordination between the different regions. That is also what money is in the coalition agreement, so we will shape that further. What can municipalities and water boards with that list of potentially very worrying substances just published by RIVM? It's a good thing that list is here. It is a long list, but compared to how many substances there are, it is also clear again. RIVM indicates that substances on this list can probably be classified as a very worrying substance, but that there is still insufficient scientific evidence, and I will look at Mr Geurts. However, there is evidence that it is important to see if you can provide that scientific basis. The list has no legal status, that is the answer to your question, but can be used in the preparation and assessment of discharge permits. The added value of that list is that the competent authority is more attentive to the authorisation of these substances and the company applying for the authorisation will request more information, so ask for more information. GenX is also on this list, but it is not yet officially a very worrying substance. This will provide competent authorities with an additional tool to review these substances in the case of licence applications. By the way, RIVM has determined on a scientific basis why a substance is on that list. That wasn't just done randomly. They also asked about the money for the approach to removing drug residues from the water. Mr Dijkstra said that we should not all experiment in the wild, but that should be used effectively. I very much agree with that. We're definitely not going to experiment in the wild. There is already a lot of experience in Germany and Switzerland and we use it. Although we know a lot about water in this country, you should not close your eyes to knowledge that is available abroad, so we certainly do so on this point. Explore where we can do what best and then roll it out large-scale; sure. We're definitely scaling up where we can. I was recently invited to attend the conference in Zeist where this particular point was discussed, together with the Union of Water Councils. I was pleased to note that the people sitting around me said that last year, when that conference was first there, it was not very crowded and that the people had to stand in the back of the room now. I think this is a sign that the issue of water quality is really on the agenda and that there is much more administrative attention to it in the Netherlands, not only in the waterboards but also in the provinces. Mr Dijkstra asked whether our water might enter the North Sea cleaner than it enters the country. I agree with Mr Dijkstra that we need to monitor carefully and know what is coming into our country. We also measure this constantly, for example at the measuring ship in Eijsden. It has been indicated that anyone who wants to go on a job visit is welcome. Then you can see for yourself how that works. A lot of ICT is being used and there is also a natural monitoring of water quality. I already gave the example of the water fleas that I recently saw. But that also happens with algae and, for example, mussels. I hear Mrs Van Tongeren saying she's not gonna do them. I hear everything here! You'll see. We make every effort to keep the quality of the water at least equal to the quality it has when it enters us. But honesty also commands to say that even that sometimes does not succeed. So we should not have the illusion that it all comes in very dirty and that we then clean it completely. Because of our own industry and agriculture, we ourselves add some things to our water. And we have a lot of industry ourselves, also along the Rhine and the Meuse. It is about the whole chain and therefore it is important to work closely with Germany and Belgium. That is what we are doing, both in terms of monitoring and in terms of measures. We also use the REACH data in full. As a result, we are getting more and more information, which makes us feel that REACH really works and really adds something. If it is a question of incorporating new substances, then it will work. Mr Van Aalst is actually asking a very fundamental question: what are the waterboards actually adding, and why should we not abolish them? Now we do not have time in this debate for the fundamental debate on the waterboards to be extended, but I would like to point out that the waterboards as sectoral, regional government have a very good reputation at home and abroad. They have many responsibilities: dike maintenance, dike reinforcement, level management. So they do a lot more; so they don't just have the responsibility for water quality. The abolition of this state-owned layer does not seem to me to be a solution to which there is a problem. On the contrary, I am committed to strengthening knowledge in the implementation, including in the waterboards, of licensing. Then you will say: we should have one authority, which is responsible for everything. I think that the GenX case, which we were just talking about, shows that governments can also work together very well. The province limits the discharge on the advice of Rijkswaterstaat. Water boards and Rijkswaterstaat together measure very well what is in the water and take environmental services on the basis of this information very actively to companies. I think cooperation works. I've been through it myself. The moment it just started, there was also just contact with the mayor of Helmond, with the dike count of Aa and Maas and you name it. The drivers throughout the water world know how to find each other perfectly. I think it's also something we can cherish and be proud of. Mrs van Tongeren asked whether we should not go to a system where substances should only be discharged if they have already been proven to be harmless. That sounds very sympathetic to me, but it is in fact impossible, because any substance can become toxic at some point, if you make the concentration high enough. The REACH Regulation also states that the higher the volume of a substance, the stricter the information requirements. Additional tests can also be forced to further investigate a specific property of a substance. At European level, efforts have been made to strike a balance between health protection, the environment and the use of animals and costs. A company always has to look at the fabric in advance; of course it also has its own responsibility. In the case of a permit application for discharge, the harmfulness of a substance will always have to be assessed by means of the so-called general assessment methodology and an emission test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u59	I can go a long way with the Minister: you should not have unnecessary administrative burdens and complicated situations. But what I think is happening now is that substances which we do not yet know at what level which may or may not be toxic to the population or to mussels, or which we do not know yet whether they pose problems for water intake points, are being discharged. We know what substances we can have. They may be discharged, preferably as little as possible, but they may be discharged. My proposal would be that a new substance, such as GenX, should first be examined how many of these people can handle at all before a discharge permit is issued. I would therefore like it to be reversed so that we do not look at it first and then discover that it is very difficult to get it out, but first check whether it can be done at all, so that we have a list of substances that can be discharged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u60	I was just trying to point out that it's very difficult, because any substance can potentially be harmful. Even if a substance at a very low dose is harmless, if you get too much of it, it can still be harmful. A total reversal is therefore not possible. That is why it is important that action is taken as soon as there is scientific evidence, of course, that alarm bells go off somewhere. If RIVM, which is still a renowned institute, says "this could be one of those substances," action must be taken immediately and that substance must be included on that list so that any competent authority that wishes to issue a permit will ask for it three times and, in a manner of speaking, can make additional demands in a tailor-made decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u61	I think the minister and I are talking a little bit past each other. As far as concentration is concerned, I fully agree with the Minister for Water, which is also fatal if you get too much of it, but I am trying to say the following. There are substances we know, and we know how many of them you could have. In addition, there are new, unknown substances. For these new, unknown substances, I would like to see first of all whether they are harmful and, if so, at what concentration, before they can be discharged at all. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u62	That's not how our legal system works. It might be nice to see if that's possible, but based on the information I have now, it can't work that way. I will ask you again what exactly is the reason why this system has been chosen and, if you will allow it, I will return to that in the letter that comes before the next AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u63	Very good. I would very much like to move towards the second term, so can you give me a short and pointy answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u64	Yeah, I'm gonna try. I think I've been a long way, Mr. Chairman. There is still a request for hot water discharges. They are already subject to licensing. This also includes the fact that a company is making the most of its efforts to minimise heat discharge. The licence holder should see to that. There's enforcement on that, too. Of course, there are also good examples of the use of residual heat. When I was a deputy in Brabant, residual heat was used, for example, on the site of the Havenschap Moerdijk, so there are also good examples of the use of residual heat at another company. If you can prevent hot water discharges in this way, it is always a priority, but a company has to prove that it can only discharge that hot water. The question of pollution of groundwater in the context of mining has still been asked. The Structure Vision Underground should also ensure the quality of deeper groundwater. That structural vision belongs to the policy area of the Secretary of State, so if you have any further questions about it, you should turn to her for a moment. Mrs Van Brenk has asked me to extend the green deal for raw materials. For this I refer her to the general consultation Circular economy with the Secretary of State, which will be held on 15 March. That is where the letter on the Van Brenn motion on the use of water boards on the circular economy is on the agenda. But it's good to hear she's so on top of it. Is the Minister prepared to keep his finger on the pulse at EU level with regard to emerging substances? We are certainly doing so by means of REACH. The very worrying substances are also an important spearhead for the Secretary of State in the consultations in which she participates. We do that together with a number of other frontrunner countries. Then you also had the question: will drinking water supply be adequately taken into account in new buildings? That is a very important point. Mr Sienot also mentioned this in his maiden speech. There is often just thought: well, that water will come from the tap itself. One doesn't realize at all what's behind it, that it takes miles of pipes, and so on. Drinking water companies should actually be involved early in this consultation, which I very much agree with Mrs Van Brenk and provinces should also monitor that. I also hear from drinking water companies that, sometimes due to work, a management has to be shut down and that it is not known that a large part of the water supply in the Netherlands sometimes depends on it. I would like to draw attention to this point once again in the discussions with the domes, especially in the direction of the municipalities. After all, we still have a lot of work to do with each other, so we must ensure that this interest is well protected. You also asked: what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Van Brenn/Laçin motion on better sharing of knowledge about dangerous substances, if possible internationally? I have already said in an earlier reply that I think that is very important. We must tackle this together with companies, drinking water companies and water boards. We regularly speak with all stakeholders. Sitting together at the table is the first step in that knowledge sharing. We are also working on a work programme with the RIVM in order to provide some more specialist information to share that knowledge and analysis with all stakeholders. We also do this internationally in the International Commission for Fisheries, the International Rhine Commission, the Rijndelta Steering Group and also in the framework of the EU Drinking Water Directive. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs Van Brenk's final question: how can we increase people's own influence on water quality? Clean water naturally requires awareness of all of us. That has also been mentioned by several speakers. It requires a great deal of effort, including from public authorities and drinking water companies. There's already a lot of attention to communication. But of course people can also do a lot of themselves: no drug residue in the toilet, no frying fat flushing and so on. We have the campaign Our Water. Twice a year a lot of attention is paid to the importance of clean drinking water. There are many activities for a wide audience. That's very successful. The employees have told me that after such a campaign week we are approached very often by mainly schools, who then ask for teaching packages, because they want to do a project. An example is primary school De Wegwijzer in's-Gravenzande who recently won the LEGO league with a water saving idea of a nice sticker on the toilet. So you also just see in practice after such a campaign in the Ministry the reactions come in. And that only encourages us to keep doing it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u65	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Van Brenk, who comes running to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u66	The minister forgot a point. I made a very kind request to see if you wanted to talk to the water engineering sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u67	I can reply to that very briefly: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u68	Fine. Very good. Is there a need for a second term? That's not mandatory. I can see that there is a need. I call Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answer. I am pleased to hear that Chemours has now provided the list and that the Minister is going to see what legal can and what she can share with us. I'm very curious about that. The Minister is working towards a new administrative agreement with all parties. I am very curious about this, including the possibilities that it offers. I missed one point. I asked if the Minister also supports the initiative of the German UBA, yes or no. I would like an answer to that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the charge for the additional treatment of drinking water is paid by the user;]] [[Whereas drinking water is a primary need for life;]] [[Whereas industry is the main source of the additional treatment and costs involved;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out research into a legally feasible possibility to reduce the increasing costs of treatment to the polluting sources based on the polluter pays principle and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u70	I agree with the thrust of this motion, but the recital mentions industry as the main source. I miss agriculture. Or does the SP think that agriculture is part of industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u71	No. Agriculture is certainly part of this problem. Agriculture is also a major polluter. We share that view with GroenLinks. In this debate, I would like to focus mainly on the chemical industry. My colleague Frank Futselaar focuses mainly on the agricultural sector. But I certainly agree with GroenLinks. I have one more tip for Mr Dijkstra. He made the remark: doesn't it go cleaner into the North Sea than it comes in here? Today we watched the film From Source to Sea of the Plastic Soup Surfer with Mr.Sienot. That's highly recommended. Then you will also see that the water is coming in cleaner than it is leaving our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u72	A movie tip for the recess. I call Mr Sienot. We're getting a maiden motion from Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u73	Can we congratulate him on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u74	You may also simply vote. First of all, I would like to thank you for all the fine congratulations and flowers. It's heartwarming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u75	It's the last time, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u76	It's the last time. I enjoyed it, Mr President. Part approach per source is nice, but water flows out of the tap at once. It is also good that there are intentions to deal with this together. What I haven't heard is how climate change and climate change are being taken into account. Having heard the whole thing, I thought it would be good to give up the Minister's fine intentions with this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that our surface water contains more and more unknown chemicals, drug residues and microplastics;]] [[noting that surface water is an important source for our drinking water;]] [[noting that keeping our drinking water clean is a shared responsibility of the Empire, provinces, municipalities, water boards and drinking water companies;]] [[whereas climate change also affects our drinking water, for example by salinisation;]] [[Whereas these threats call for good cooperation between the authorities concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an implementation plan with the relevant authorities to protect our drinking water from these new threats,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-416]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are two motions from our side. One of them is in line with the debate on the waterboards. We understand that there are tasks, but they can go to the province very well. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the monitoring by the waterboards has failed several times;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish all waterboards and incorporate the tasks of the waterboards within the province's remit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-417]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u78	The second motion refers to the example given by the Minister with regard to different authorities and licensing. Then it's the example of GenX. We thought that was the least of the best examples. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both Rijkswaterstaat and the water boards and the environmental service are competent to issue permits for the discharge of substances;]] [[calls on the Government to place the authorization for the discharge of substances with a single central authority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-418]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u79	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hot water is an energy carrier and this heat can be recovered;]] [[Whereas the discharge of hot water to surface water may have adverse effects;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals for, for example, a green deal with relevant sectors promoting the (re) use of hot cooling water,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-419]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u80	I had a motion similar to the SP on "polluter pays" should be leading. I hope that we can amend the motion in such a way that it applies not only to industry but to all sectors which cause pollution. Then I'd like to co-sign that motion. I have one more question, but I don't know which ruler to be with. I've heard that the Shale Gas Structure Vision is buried and at its end. I'm curious when the Structure Vision Underground will come. However, I do not know whether that is in the case of the Home Office or the case of Economic Affairs. I hear the Minister say it belongs to the Secretary of State of I and M. Perhaps the Minister can pass on the question, because this is also very relevant to the quality of drinking water. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u81	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Brenk from the 50PLUS group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u82	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Minister on the pleasant way in which he has debated and the clear answer. Yesterday we closed the debate with a final motion of 50PLUS. I hope to do so again today in support of your policy. I hope you also embrace this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement announces measures to improve the quality of surface water and drinking water;]] [[Considering that the budget for Infrastructure and Water State 2018 states that a new Water Governance Agreement is under way;]] [[calls on the Government to use the Administrative Agreement on concrete and measurable results with an appropriate, realistic investment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenk, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-420]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u83	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were asked whether we would be taking part in the UBA initiative in Germany. The answer to that is yes. Let's move on to the motions. The motion in part No. Mr Laçin asked for a study to be carried out on a legally feasible possibility of reducing the increasing costs of treatment to polluting sources, based on the polluter pays principle, and to inform the Court of Justice of this. That's what we're doing, so I can give Court judgment on this. Then the motion to part No. Mr Sienot and Mr Dik-Faber. The government is invited to draw up an implementation plan with the authorities concerned to protect our drinking water from new threats. I can simply say that this is a very well-defined proposal. You also said that it was actually a nice way to abandon the ambitions. So I can support that. Then the motion to part No. 417 by Mr Van Aalst, who is actually asking for the waterboards to be lifted. In my reply, I have already made it clear that I do not feel that way, so I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 418 calls on the Government to place the authorization for the discharge of substances with a central authority. I would also like to advise against this motion, because I believe that the current system is working well. Mrs. Van Tongeren isn't here right now, but I hope she hears it from someone later. In fact, I would like to ask her for the motion on item No. 419. I would like to take stock of what is possible for the general consultation of Water in June. But there are also some legal hooks and eyes. I am sure she will look at the Acts on this subject, or else I would ask colleagues to pass this on to her. If she doesn't hold the motion, I'm gonna have to dissuade it. But if she wants to continue the motion, I would like to state in the June letter before the AO Water what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u85	Mrs. Van Tongeren has signed off on obligations elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u86	Okay, but I still have to respond to her motion. That's gonna be okay, because I see people nodding. That message will come through. Then we have Mrs Van Brenn's motion on part No. 420. She wants to make it a tradition to be the last... Well, Mrs. Van Brenk, the second time we've done it again! I would also like to take up this motion, in which you ask the government to use the administrative agreement on concrete and measurable results with an appropriate, realistic investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u87	Is there any objection to taking over this motion? It seems to me that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-22.u88	Thank you to the Minister for her presence and contribution. We will vote on Tuesday after recess in five or, if they are all left, six motions. Thank you to the Members. I'll suspend to the nine o'clock clock before dinner.
