ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the Antidoping Policy Act, No 34543. I welcome the Minister for Medical Care, who is also responsible for the sport dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Four speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. First, I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP. He has requested 10 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Good morning. Combating doping is very important. It is also right that the government should interfere. Because it's not just a game where the sport itself decides what the rules are. No, it's about trusting sports. Doping is cheating, it's sporting fraud. It is very important that confidence in sport should not be shattered, also because it concerns role models, often young talents, which I would not want them to be tempted to use unhealthy crap because competition does. It is a danger to health and a risk to the image of sport. As far as I am concerned, we must never abandon the fight against doping and we must step up it wherever possible. Is it true that we in the Netherlands spend less money on the fight against doping and that there are fewer controls compared to many other countries? Shouldn't the Netherlands be a country leading the way in the fight against doping? What about the Doping Authority's budget and capacity? Is that enough, according to the Minister, if we want to step up the fight against doping? There's gonna be a policy plan on doping. Can the Minister be more precise about when we can expect this and what are the most important parts of it? Will there also be explicit attention to combating doping in amateur sport, such as in gyms? What about the in-depth investigation into the use of sports performance-enhancing tools that RIVM would carry out, commissioned by the Ministry? Are there opportunities for increasing information among young, potential athletes? I hope that the Minister will be able to promise that these kinds of issues will be explicitly reflected in his policy plan. Then there is the law, because we have often expressed our concerns about doping in sport. We have also asked many times where the promised bill was. It really took years. Although it may not have been entirely realistic to expect the bill to be the solution to all the problems related to doping in sport, I do understand the largely disappointed reactions to this bill. The main and much-heard objection to the current doping policy is that the system is now mainly aimed at doping users, whereas it should actually be dealing with the system behind the drug dealers, the wrong doctors and managers, who knowingly provide or administer prohibited drugs and thus encourage cheating. In the round table, Thijs Zonneveld said: "If you want to fight doping, you do it best at the roots, not at the tips of the branches." That's what I think it is. This new law also maintains that people behind the use of doping can only be dealt with by means of detours, such as through the Medicines Act. I regret that the opportunity has not been seized to do anything about this new law. Several political groups, including the SP, have asked whether there has been any consideration of criminalising doping, as in Spain, because in the end it is just plain cheating, sporting fraud, of which fellow athletes and the public are the victims. The people who facilitate doping put the health of others at risk and at the same time make substantial money from it. It is therefore important to protect public health and confidence in sport. A clear standard therefore seems to me necessary in the pursuit of a clean sport. Would it not be a good idea, more clearly than at present, to criminalise doping-related crime as sporting fraud and, above all, to encourage or facilitate doping? Wouldn't it be good to punish that relatively heavily? In my view, this also allows better research into the underlying structures, so that the wrong doctors and managers do not escape the dance. They need to be dealt with above all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. Mr Heerema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	I have an enlightening question. Mr Van Nispen talks about the possibility of introducing sporting fraud. Does he see any difference between the recreational user and the clique around the top athlete? I think you can find two differences between them. I am curious to see how Mr Van Nispen views this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	I understand the question, Mr President. If it is not, it will be apparent and Mr Heerema will have to come back again. I think doping in amateur sport is also a big problem. I did not ask for nothing about the research that shows how much is being used in the gyms and how this can be tackled. Doping dealers make big money from drug trafficking. I don't think you know in advance where those resources will end up. I think they should be dealt with in any way. I wonder if that is enough at the moment. Is there a problem in the law? Is there a problem in cooperation? When it comes to administering, or facilitating the use, I'm talking about the doctors and the managers, it's more obvious to look at the top sport. Because I don't think this is the big problem with the gyms. That is much more about the availability of resources, which can sometimes be easily obtained via the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr. Lordema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think there is a difference between recreational use by a recreational athlete who takes resources directly from a supplier and the use by a top athlete, around which there is a whole clique that is complicit in administering doping: team doctors, physiotherapists, team managers and so on. I really do feel for this direction and I wonder what the Minister is going to say about it later. I could very well imagine that we are going to make a difference between the recreational user, who takes a direct step towards the supplier, and the top athlete, who has an exemplary role and also receives a lot of media attention, with the cabal around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	I very much agree with that. That is also what I am trying to propose in this debate to the Minister, namely to tackle the clique of the top athlete. I am talking about the doctors and managers who say to the top athlete "you could use it better, because your competitors are doing it too" and about the doctors who are giving doping concretely. If you had a better and more clear standard, more research would be possible into the underlying structures behind the user, who our system has so far focused on. I'm missing that standard a little bit in our Code of Criminal Law. I'm not sure if there should be, but that's my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Mrs Bruins Slot also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	This is true of the position of the doctors who prescribe doping, while we know that doping is simply harmful to health. In doing so, the doctors harm the oath they have ever taken to protect people's health. To what extent is disciplinary law, which doctors of course know, a suitable instrument for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	That's a more complicated question for me. It is good that disciplinary law is in place, but I do raise the question as to whether this is sufficient. I also ask whether putting others' health at risk and, at the same time, damaging confidence in sport are not so serious that you should also look at criminal law. That is why I am discussing this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	I do understand the question raised by Mr Van Nispen and its relevance. But, of course, we have certain instruments that we can already use to tackle the system after the athlete. The athlete is actually a passerby. The system is the coach and in this case also the doctor is able to maintain the use. To what extent does Mr Van Nispen currently see that doctors are being dealt with by disciplinary law at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	The answer to that question must remain guilty. But when we hear from the Minister that it turns out to be very little, I think that is a bad thing. If the answer is "it does happen through disciplinary law," I raise the question: do we really think that is enough? Or do we think that the interests that have been violated are so serious that we should also look at criminal law, because of its deterrent effect and because of the fact that better standards would also make it possible for cooperation to be improved and that there would be a deeper investigation into the structures underlying sport? I think that is what we are looking for together, as I hear from the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	So I think there's a need to change the law. Perhaps a change to the Code of Criminal Law, or a tightening of the Warenwet or the Medicines Act. I'll leave that in the middle, but I'd like to ask the Minister. I believe that the current laws have not been attributed to a criminal approach to the criminals behind the widespread use of doping. There are hardly ever cases against large-scale doping dealers. I don't think that's because it never happens, but because of the loophole in the law. How does the Minister see this? And again, let me make it clear that I am not primarily concerned with punishing athletes who may or may not occasionally use them. The real crooks are the people behind that again. Apart from the lack of a clear legal standard, there is also a lack of priority among the various investigative and enforcement bodies involved. Collaboration sometimes also leaves something to be desired. These, too, are problems that should be addressed. How is it possible that many connoisseurs outline the picture that the Doping Authority can hardly cooperate with other agencies such as the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office? Is the Minister prepared to look at this as well and ensure that cooperation improves, that the fight against doping-related crime is given priority and that the organisations concerned also release funds if necessary? I see in the letter of amendment that it has been made possible for the customs authorities to provide personal data to the Doping Authority. That sounds good to me, but what about, for example, the police and the D.A.? How does this work? I really understand that there are all kinds of laws, such as the Law on Police Data and the Law on Judicial and Criminal Data, but to what extent do they hinder cooperation with the Doping Authority? Then I come to a completely different point. May I have a reaction to the point of NOC*NSF that the sharing of personal data with sports federations for disciplinary purposes is now permitted; that's good; but that there is no basis for the processing of personal data by the Institute of Sports Justice? Is that a bottleneck? That is the body that regulates the disciplinary treatment of doping cases on behalf of many sports associations. Does this need to be further regulated, or can the Minister say today that this is included and covered by this bill? Then I have a question about monitoring the anti-doping policy's commercial operators, because, as I understand it now, these organisations are not really bound by anything, whereas, of course, those performers are just as well violating the privacy of the athletes, one of the main reasons why we have this bill: we want to better protect the privacy of the athletes. I can also see that a solution to this may not be that simple, but I do not think that anything is arranged for that. Ignoring is not an option. This also requires attention, among other things, NOC*NSF. How is the Minister going to ensure that all those implementing anti-doping policies comply with the law in the near future and how is it effectively monitored? Anti-doping policy is mainly organised internationally. This law provides for the exchange of data at national level. I would like to ask the Minister how things are going at international level, because that is precisely where there are important challenges. How is the exchange between the Doping Authority and other anti-doping organisations such as WADA and foreign sister organisations arranged? How's that going right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	This international context is very interesting, because of course there are countries where there are no doping controls at all. Does Mr Van Nispen mean that information about Dutch sports companies is exchanged abroad? Or does Mr Van Nispen mean the international context, in which data are exchanged about athletes at all, who have doping-related issues, including Russians, who are involved in this and are known to WADA? Which two sides does Mr Van Nispen choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	I don't think it's necessary to choose. I have asked my question in general and I would therefore like to draw attention to this international cooperation and the exchange of information. My question wasn't very specific. I know we're discussing a national law, and you can't regulate that you're tying all kinds of other countries to that Dutch law internationally. But since I also see that this international component is so important, I would like to draw attention to that. I think it's reciprocal. It concerns the exchange of information about Dutch sportsmen and women abroad, but also possibly the other way around. I think it can go both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	I think that these are very wise words, because I believe that this Zbo, the Doping Authority, will be able to spread the data we collect internationally in order to spread more knowledge about doping. The more cooperative we are, the more cooperation we are likely to get from other countries. So I think it is such an excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	Finally, I come to the interests of athletes, because that is an important point. It is now the case that a large part of the top athletes have to tolerate a far-reaching breach of their privacy and privacy, because we want to catch a very small group of used athletes. I am thinking, for example, of those whereabouts. A top athlete must always let you know and keep track of where he or she is staying and always a controller can stand on the sidewalk, at the most clumsy times. And if you make mistakes in this, there's a threat of suspension. That goes a long way, but at the same time the athletes I have spoken about this also understand the importance of this and no better system has been devised that would compromise the privacy of that largest group, the hard-working top athlete. We must be constantly aware of this and, if necessary, continue to discuss it. Does the Minister share that opinion? What role does he see for himself in that? Rounding up. In my view, the law is a welcome addition, but in itself it is not going to bring much closer to the pursuit of a doping-free sport. It's gonna take a lot more than that. I am very curious to hear the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. Let us now listen to Mrs Bruins Slot's contribution. I would remind Members that she has tabled an amendment to item No. 10. I call Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr President. In 2013, Lance Armstrong finally admitted that he had won his victory in the Tour de France with the help of doping. For everyone involved in that case, it was clear that this case could only be proven because the Federal Drug Agency and federal investigation services had been doing their best for years to conduct extensive investigations. Without the FDA's intervention, Armstrong could have maintained his web of lies for the rest of his life. This shows that sport also needs help in the fight against doping. Doping undermines confidence in sport. But doping is also harmful to health and trafficking in doping is accompanied by serious crime. The CDA does share the premise that sport is the primary responsibility for the fight against doping, but, as has been said, he cannot do it alone. It is therefore also a good thing that we are now taking a step forward with an anti-doping law, which better supports sport in this fight. That fight is getting more and more complicated. Look at what the state in Russia has done to set up a sophisticated doping programme there. The government agreement includes the firm commitment of the government to tackling doping. This law has a very long history. He was announced by Minister Klink in May 2010. At the time, 2010, Armstrong was still in the peloton and was still in preparation for his very last participation in the Tour de France. After almost seven years of waiting, you'd expect a law that would solve all the problems in the detection of doping. I repeat the SP: the law is a step in the right direction, but there are still some loose ends in it. I'll be passing the different points in a minute. Since there are still a number of issues that need to be clarified in practice and the question of how this law will work in the end, the CDA has tabled an amendment to arrive at a rapid evaluation. We can carry out this evaluation after three years, so that we can quickly adapt any shortcomings. When Minister Klink announced that he would come up with that doping law, he indicated that he did so not only to ban doping from sport, but also to prevent the Dutch sport from going into isolation. I ask the current Minister whether he believes that the delay in the legislation has not caused this to happen. Apart from England, the Netherlands is the only country within the European Union that has not yet established anti-doping rules in its legislation. In order to combat doping effectively, it is particularly important to address the system around the athlete. If you really want to change something, then, as Thijs Zonneveld mentioned earlier, you have to tackle the top of the pyramid: the trainers, the coaches, the sports doctors and the traders who facilitate the doping use. Athletes are passers-by, the doping culture remains. The scandals in Russia show that even now, after the GDR, it is still a state affair. It is the state that destroys confidence in sport. This whole chain of combating the trade in doping and the use of doping does not fall within a single area of responsibility of a single organisation. That's what makes it so difficult to handle. But that also makes it so important to achieve good cooperation. The Public Prosecutor's Office prosecutes the trader through criminal law and the customs investigates doping at the border or at the port of Rotterdam. The Health and Youth Inspectorate can prosecute the doctor who prescribes doping, and the Doping Authority does doping checks on athletes. So to be truly effective, to tackle doping as a whole, it is necessary to work together. First of all, it is a good exchange of information between the Doping Authority and customs, with the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the FIOD. And it is time for the Dutch Doping Authority, like many of its European colleagues, to exchange the right information with customs. This bill provides a good basis for this. Is it true, as I ask the Minister, that customs data will only be provided if the Doping Authority so requests? And based on what signals can the Doping Authority retrieve data? The Minister writes in response to the questions that the information provided by customs may be subject to a purpose binding. He uses the word "kan." Why does he use the word "can"? So under what conditions is there a goal binding or not? That goal binding is again important to ensure that you can or cannot exchange certain data. Not only with customs, but also with the Health and Youth Inspectorate and with the Dutch Food and War Authority may be exchanged after the introduction of this law according to the Minister "more and relevant data." With the word group "more and more relevant data" it remains a little unclear what can be exchanged and what improvement can be achieved. There will therefore be a legal basis for these three services: customs, the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the Dutch Food and War Authority. Unfortunately, there will be no legal basis for the provision of data by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the Tax Intelligence and Investigation Service. Yesterday we received from the Minister a large report of 60 pages in which it was clearly stated which laws and rules should be changed in order to enable the provision of data by the Public Prosecutor's Office, by the FIOD and by the police, over and over again. It is quite clear in the report: you need to amend the Decision on Police Data and the Law on Judicial and Criminal Data. Why didn't this happen? Why did the Minister choose not to settle this already in this bill? Now certain relevant information will not be sent to the Doping Authority, because we have not made a proper legal basis. Because it's important to get the information of that puzzle complete. I also indicated just now that combating the trade in doping and doping is a system involving many people. They have to fit each other's information together to get a complete overview of the origin and who ultimately uses it. Too often the second shell around the athlete now remains the coach, the trader, the trainer out of the picture. The CDA therefore considers it very important that there is effective cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police in order to prevent the trafficking and use of doping. This is now happening slowly and occasionally, while the Minister already wrote in 2013 that the trade in doping and counterfeit medicines is very lucrative and increasingly comes back as a by-product of criminal affairs. Here again there is the risk of major damage to public health. However, the Minister indicated that discussions are currently taking place on the possibilities of further and better cooperation with the Doping Authority. Those talks have been going on for a while; we have been getting that answer back, actually for more than two years. The CDA thinks that this is a bit too non-committal and too thin. The CDA believes that there should be at least a protocol of cooperation between the Doping Authority and the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and, for example, customs, so that the responsibilities and powers are clear. When will they inform each other? What do we know about each other? How do we involve each other? What can we pay each other for? And what are the results of that? I would like to comment on this point. The CDA is also considering a motion in this area. Mr. Chairman. This cooperation is very important in order to prevent drugs from reaching the sportsman. It is important to tackle the doping networks around the athlete. So this is about the coaches, the sports doctors and the traders. Tackling the doping networks within organised sport limits the possibilities of the Doping Authority. When it comes to dealing with, for example, the trade and production of medicines, including doping, this Minister believes that enforcement through the Medicines Act should also be considered, but are these doping networks actually being addressed in the context of the enforcement of the Medicines Act? That is my question, because in 2009 and 2016, the judge ruled that only medicinal products with therapeutic effect are covered by the Medicines Act, but many doping agents, such as anabolics, have no official therapeutic effect at all. Therefore, the marketing and production of these products cannot be maintained under the Medicines Act. Can the Minister indicate how, in his view, enforcement through the Medicines Act contributes in practice to dealing with the trade and production of doping? Legal medicines can also be traded illegally as doping. Does the Minister have any idea of the current illegal trade in legal medicines? At the beginning of 2016, the previous minister reported in a plan of approach on falsified medicines that the Dutch Health and Youth Inspectorate, the Dutch Food and Service Authority, the Lareb Adverse Reaction Centre, the National Poisons Information Centre, the Doping Authority and the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment received reports on unregistered medicines, suspicious food supplements and doping. So there is a large number of institutes in the Netherlands that receive reports about suspicious food supplements, about falsified medicines and about doping. I mentioned all these institutions, while I avoided the abbreviations we all use regularly. Apparently, RIVM keeps an overview of the reports on falsified medicines, doping and health complaints, at least that is what is in that plan of action. The summary shall also include decisions on the follow-up and the result. It should be, I say to the Minister, that this is reported twice a year to this minister, and that there will eventually be an annual report of all the data and all the reports that are there, including on doping, and what is being done with it. In the meantime, as a House of Representatives, we are in the dark about what is actually happening in this area. My question to the Minister is: couldn't we as the Lower House also get the annual report of the RIVM on doping and falsified medicines? Then we can also see what is now the effectiveness of all these reports and how we actually deal with the trade in doping, but also the trade in food supplements. So I would like to know from the Minister what the results are, but also whether we can get that annual report from the RIVM. Mr. Chairman. The network around a top athlete can include a sports doctor. A sports doctor like that is subject to medical discipline. I had an interrupting debate with Mr Van Nispen just now. Furthermore, I would like to say to Mr Van Nispen that you referred to penalties and they are contained in the BIG Act. Therefore, if a doctor deliberately harms the health of a patient, he can be dealt with not only under disciplinary law but also through criminal law. So there are already a number of possibilities. The Minister states that the Doping Authority currently has no power to file a disciplinary complaint against doctors, as this is only possible for the Health and Youth Inspectorate and for direct stakeholders. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. The Doping Authority is now becoming an independent administrative body and is given a formal role in the fight against doping and in tackling doctors. Will this directly involve the Doping Authority and will it then be able to direct sports doctors to the Health and Youth Inspectorate in order to ensure that these sports doctors are actually prosecuted for putting athletes at risk and not complying with their oath? The IGJ does now have the power to file a disciplinary complaint against a doctor who has administered doping. My question is whether this has actually happened before. Has the inspection ever done that before? How many times did that happen? Is the administration of doping at all in the inspection review framework? I come to a number of questions that Mr Van Nispen has also asked about the processing of data by commercial parties. But I see he's headed for the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	We were just having an interrupting debate on that. You are actually asking the Minister more or less the same question about disciplinary law on doping. It is true that there may already be criminal sanctions if another person's health is compromised, but my position was that such provisions are not clear enough in the law. You can take doping more widely. The violated interest in doping is also the confidence in sport, not only in putting another person's health at risk. Shouldn't we be looking at it a little more broadly? The fact that there are so few things are known, we do not know them; perhaps they are, but that is what we are hearing about makes it clear that too little research is being carried out. In my view, there is a package of problems: a possible problem in the law, a lack of cooperation and a lack of priorities among the organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	I agree with Mr Van Nispen. There are two aspects to it. On the one hand, I wonder whether this is a sufficient priority in the inspection, despite the call for the system to be dealt with. Secondly, it is indeed a question of whether we should not even look at how it works and whether the system behind it is working properly. I thought that was a fair question and I am also curious about the answer. I don't have the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	I think it is very good that we should also take a look at the amendment tabled by Mrs Bruins Slot. It states that within four years of the entry into force of this law its effects will be assessed. Is four years realistic? Is that easily feasible, or is that difficult to achieve? Through Mrs Bruins Slot I would like to know from the Minister to what extent it is possible to do it earlier. It is precisely because of the question put by both Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Van Nispen on cooperation and such that I think it is wise to evaluate quickly and then to be able to act quickly. We are talking about the sports world, which is very dynamic and fast. You need to be able to respond to things quickly. I had some doubts about the four-year evaluation period. Maybe Mrs. Bruins Slot can reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	That's a fair question. Of course, there's an Olympic cycle. After four years there must be a report in the Chamber. That is in the text of my amendment. This means that after three years the evaluation must begin. If I had put three years in the text of the amendment, the evaluation should have started after two years. It's possible. If that's possible, I think that's fine. I would very much like to amend the amendment to the effect that after three years there should be a report in the Chamber and that it should be evaluated after two years. Perhaps this is also possible because the Doping Authority already carries out a large number of tasks and a number of things are already known in practice. If there is room for that, I certainly find it interesting to adapt this, but I also need to hear the Minister about it. But there's supposed to be a report here in four years' time. Often it takes six months or three quarters of a year to get such an evaluation done really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	In addition, and perhaps also in the case of the Acts, it is a good thing that this law does not become a paper tiger and that little can be done in practice. Therefore, I think it is important that the evaluation should also include that we do not write things down to deal with the system, but that we ensure that examples are made, that we send out a deterrent signal or that we show that we are working on this as a government. I think this should also be part of the evaluation after, hopefully, two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	There's a good point in that, too. That is how I wrote the explanatory notes on the evaluation. Sometimes when you evaluate laws, you see that the bottlenecks have not been evaluated. The chairman knows that, too. We see a number of bottlenecks in this law. I have already put it specifically in the explanatory statement, because I really think that it is precisely these issues that need to be addressed when we are going to evaluate this law. Otherwise, we will conclude that it was a nice evaluation, but that we have not actually evaluated what the bottlenecks were, as is often the case in the debates we have here. That is why I have written such a very specific explanation in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	That's exactly what I was wondering. The question then is whether an evaluation clause in the law is the right instrument. I very much support the fact that there will be a law. I also note that there are a number of issues not covered by the law that we think are important. You also mention them: the supervision of those commercial organizations, the cooperation with police and prosecutors. These are bottlenecks, and we want them examined. So that is actually much more than an evaluation of the law. And we're still getting the doping policy plan. So I wonder whether an evaluation measure is the right instrument, although I do support the aim of a very broad evaluation of the overall effectiveness of the doping approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	I think that's complementary. Of course, you also have other instruments than the functioning of the law. What Mr Van Nispen has just referred to in his speech is that you should also look at whether those other instruments outside this law are working properly. This is about the evaluation of this law. This is independent of the fact that you also have to do a number of other things, including drawing up a plan of action in the field of doping as announced in the government agreement. But you will also have to evaluate this law on the aspects that are relevant to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	I agree. That must also be the case for the aspects that are not regulated, but then we will hear from the Minister whether, in addition to the legal review, there will be a policy review or another kind of evaluation of the effectiveness of doping policy or whether it can all be combined. I think it would be fine if we did indeed, but above all also looked into what this law does not regulate. I think we agree on that and that the appeal from the Chamber is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mrs. Bruins Slot, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do see the latter as an argument. I come to a point raised by Mr Van Nispen, which concerns the commercial parties. Mr Van Nispen had a question about supervision. I have a question that looks at another aspect of it. The Doping Authority is not the only organisation in the Netherlands to carry out doping controls. Commercial parties are engaged by international sports federations to carry out doping controls. The Minister seems to be a bit of a two-thinker here. On the one hand, he writes that in order to keep competition with the Doping Authority sharp, it is good that these commercial parties are there. On the other hand, there is no specific legal basis for the commercial parties for the processing of personal data of athletes. My question to the Minister is this: will the legal risks that the public legal framework of the Doping Authority is taking away with this bill when it comes to doping controls not exist in the checks carried out by the commercial parties? Doesn't that undermine the functioning of this law? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In addition, the commercial providers of doping controls are not signatories to the World Anti-Doping Code. They are therefore outside the scope and supervision of the World Anti-Doping Agency. The Minister himself states that he considers this an undesirable situation and that he will urge WADA to review its regulations in 2019. What does the Minister think the WADA should change? And if the Minister thinks this is such a problem, why does he not tackle this problem himself in the Netherlands? Then I come to the processing of data from the Disciplinary College. Following the round table, the Minister submitted a letter of amendment which provides that sports associations may also process data for disciplinary proceedings. The SP has asked a question about this. That question was also raised by NOC*NSF: is the statutory guarantee with which the Institute of Sports Justice is a body of the sports association sufficient for the processing of personal data by the Institute of Sports Justice as disciplinary committee of the sports associations? In my view, that is the same question as Mr Van Nispen's question. So that's what I'm gonna go along with. Another aspect is that there are still uncertainties as to when public law or private law should prevail. For example, a top athlete can appeal against a decision on medical dispensation. This decision of the Doping Authority is a decision against which the administrative judge has an objection. On the other hand, the athlete can also appeal against the decision to the disciplinary committee of the sports association on the basis of the doping rules. Does the administrative or private procedure prevail in this case? And how will that be the case in general? I'd like a response from the Minister. I'm about to come to a conclusion. I come to the organization of the Doping Authority itself. This bill transforms it into an independent administrative body. The Minister, on the advice of the Council of State, included in the bill that policy rules could be drawn up on the full breadth of the Doping Authority's task. Does the Minister know by now whether these policies will be implemented? If so, what exactly does it contain? Finally, the Minister writes that he is still in consultation with the Doping Authority to determine what additional tasks the Doping Authority will have. So she's getting extra duties? And how much capacity is needed for that? What is the situation with these talks and has a definitive conclusion already been reached? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. This law runs for eight years. Only after Armstrong, Russia and the Russian revelations has a law come into the Chamber. The law is a step in the right direction to combat doping and to tackle the system around the athlete better. I have to say to the Minister quite honestly that the CDA does not yet have any expectations for this. Practice will have to prove that this is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Diertens from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. The discussion of this bill has been a long time overdue, but how topical is it that we are dealing with this proposal for the Olympic Games? Because the resolution by CAS and IOC of the Russian doping case causes a lot of unrest among athletes participating in the Winter Olympic Games, which start on Friday. In short, the legal anchoring makes sense only if the sports world has the right things to do. I wish our TeamNL every success in this respect. We in the House of Representatives, especially these colleagues, will also follow it enthusiastically. As far as I am concerned, the fight against doping is important because of the health of our athletes, but also to create conditions for fair sports. This fair way of exercising is mainly the responsibility of the athletes themselves. In order to ensure a fair playing field, doping use among top athletes is monitored. Enjoying clean sports is very important for D66. That is why I am pleased that the government agreement agreed to give greater priority to the fight against doping. It is therefore important to provide the Doping Authority with a public legal basis. The Doping Authority has gained a lot of knowledge and experience in recent years. The legal anchoring is the next step. An important fundamental point for D66 is the hybrid model of this law. By law, the Doping Authority is given status as an independent administrative body under the responsibility of the Minister, which means that there is a guarantee of public law. However, if violations are detected, disciplinary justice must be exercised by disciplinary committees of individual unions or the Institute of Sports Justice. Since we are still playing a role in disciplinary law, I ask the Minister what safeguards are in place to ensure that a careful trial is carried out. Unfortunately, doping controls are necessary. Top athletes are under great pressure; they must and want to perform. This requires a lot of top athletes. Doping controls are profound in the private life of our sports heroes and their environment. I am thinking, for example, of the wherabout regime that has already been discussed by my colleagues. I hear that athletes themselves want to have more influence on doping policy. How does the Minister ensure that they can also influence, for example, whereabout issues? Don't the whereabouts go too far? Is the containment of their privacy really necessary? I find the safeguards for privacy in this bill a little thin. How, for example, do we deal with the data of former athletes? How long are personal data stored? What happens to old whereabouts? And, for example, does it make sense to know whereabouts from someone a few months ago? The same applies to the international exchange of information. I understand that there is a lot of consideration for future European privacy regulations, but sport is by definition a world event. How do we ensure that the data of our athletes are properly handled across European borders? Can the Minister respond to that? We would be well advised to ask for the minimum necessary of the athletes. And if we are talking about borders, Minister, what effect does this law have on Caribbean Netherlands, and on Curaçao, Saint Martin and Aruba, as part of our Kingdom, which participates in Olympic Games under the Dutch flag, for example? I am aware that it remains a difficult balance. You want to know enough to combat doping effectively, but athletes are also entitled to their privacy. In the context of this privacy, I also have a question about the private organisations that control doping on behalf of the Zbo Doping Authority. Mrs Bruins Slot also noted this in detail. How are the co-operation, role, division of tasks, privacy assurance and final responsibility actually arranged? Do they have to follow the same rules as a Zbo? Mr. Chairman. Trust in doping control stands or falls with the independence of the institute. All athletes must be able to trust that the Doping Authority is independent. Now I read in the media reports about a contract between a certain team and the Doping Authority. The authority provides additional controls for them. Of course, it is to be commended that the doping team takes so seriously that it imposes additional controls on its own athletes, but doesn't this also make the Doping Authority vulnerable? Let me be clear: I have no reason to think that the people who work there are not integrity. I know them, I have every confidence in them, but if there are financial flows from a commercial team to a public-law Zbo Doping Authority, I can ask questions about that independence. I do think that we should avoid the appearance of this conflict of interest. What does the Minister think about this? Mr. Chairman. We have always talked about doping control among top athletes, but research by RIVM shows that 0.7% of all athletes, including amateur athletes, use doping. That's about tens of thousands of people. With this bill we do nothing about doping among amateur sportsmen while we know that there can be major health problems with the use of doping; think of infertility and liver and heart problems. What is being done about this outside the law and does the Minister see this as a task for the Doping Authority? Mr. Chairman. Often the decision to use doping is taken under pressure, but the network around the sport is often out of the question. Criminal influences cause me great concern. The Minister states in the note on the report that this is mainly the responsibility of the sports world itself. But is that sports world even equipped for that? At coaches, I imagine the unions can move on. But even after hearing Mrs Bruins Slot's reference, I find it even more complex than what I read on paper. For example, they could impose life-long suspensions, but what about doctors? And how is it going with suppliers of doping and the trade in doping? I do not think that sports associations can do that themselves. Can they report it and what will be done with that report? Mr. Chairman. D66 considers this law a step towards clean sport, but implementation still requires a more careful impact. I wish the Doping Authority, the NOC*NSF, the Institute of Sports Justice and the Ministry every success in the necessary follow-up steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you. Finally, on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr. Chairman. Some first times you always remember. I remember well: it was 1992 and I was 14; it was for me the first time that I was allowed to swim a game abroad. So far, my competitions have been limited to national boundaries. Although it was only in Belgium, the grey and grey Charleroi, it was a very exciting experience. Together with a number of swimmers I was allowed to gain experience for the larger tournaments later that year and perhaps in anticipation of the European Youth Olympic Games the following year, in 1993. I was good at the 200 meters, the 400 meters and the 1,500 meters free stroke and the 200 meters butterfly stroke. It was also the very first tournament where as a 14-year-old boy I was allowed to sign autographs to the even younger swimmers, who wanted to have a signature on their swimming board. I don't think I won a single number. That wasn't so crazy either, because Pieter was already the best of all, but it was a wedding match for us. That included practicing doping tests. I didn't mind. It was kind of exciting, all that attention to doping, but in the end we didn't pay too much attention to it ourselves. Doping wasn't something that popped into our heads at the time. Not yet. A year later, we had qualified for the European Youth Olympic Days. They were held in the Netherlands in 1993, in Valkenswaard. We were 15-year-old kids. I remember well: we met the Italians, four boys in the dressing room, much bigger, much wider, much stronger and much more muscles. We were kids, and they were real men. Eventually, one of those Italians turned out to have been caught on doping, which he had already started doing at the age of 15. That was the first moment for me that the term "doping" really fell. We were always wondering how the difference between boys from 1978 could be so great. Unfortunately, from then on doping has become part of the sport for me. In performances that weren't supposed to be possible, there was always a voice that said in the back of my mind: is this true?; Is this because of doping? Mr. Chairman. I will pass on a number of points from this Antidoping Policy Implementation Act and I would like to return to the last point of this introduction. It's taken quite a long time to get this law into the Chamber. Let me be clear straight away: this is for us the minimum basis that the law should have; the absolute minimum. We had hoped that this law would regulate more than is currently the case. We actually only deal with the legal task of processing data that becomes the basis of the Doping Authority strong enough already and a number of other things that my colleagues have already discussed extensively. However, VVD would also have liked us to be better able to deal with the system with this law. By the system, I mean the cabal around the doping-using athlete, the trainer, the team doctor, the physio, the team manager, you name it. It is good to see that parties from left to right in this Chamber are all paying attention to this. There must be someone who provides the doping and helps administer it. That cabal may, no must, be punished more severely. That is why the VVD believes that this bill is a first step. As far as we are concerned, this law is rapidly being strengthened in order to achieve an effective approach to the cabal. Can the Minister indicate what steps he sees, or what steps he may already be taking to tackle the cabal effectively? Can he use the support of the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. One of the important things to be done is better cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office and a number of other organisations. This has also been made very clear by Mr Bruins Slot. In my opinion, the Public Prosecutor has too little regard for this type of crime. Cooperation with customs can and must also be improved. There is distribution of doping, often across national borders, and it is a mystery to me why that kind of information is hardly shared. It's on paper, but the practice turns out to be more aggressive. Can the Minister promise that he will talk to his colleagues to ensure that cooperation between the Doping Authority, the Public Prosecutor's Office, customs and which other parties are involved is improved? Mr. Chairman. Athletes are capable of great performance, becoming stronger, faster and higher. Doping is the big breaker. It causes us to doubt achievements, that the rightful winner is not on the highest level and that the belief in a clean sport as an example for our youth gets a pinch over and over again. As a big fan of sport, I want to continue to believe in great performance, in unique athletes and in fair medals. Mr President, I come to my last point, knowing that I might ask the Minister something about it. As far as I am concerned, there are at least two types of doping users. The first type regrets, cleans up ship, does penance and then uses knowledge and experience to warn, guide and help other athletes. The second type denies until he or she opposes such an overwhelming amount of evidence, which is reluctantly known, but there is in fact no regret. They even feel like they're being sneak victimized. Especially the latter type is found in the wrong places in the sport: as a driver, as a trainer, as a talent coach and sometimes even in all kinds of TV shows, still acting as a sort of figurehead of sport. I think that's wrong. That's not a good example. Doping is wrong and sports federations should be allowed to be more strict about penalties and harder to deal with. My question is whether the Minister recognizes this and whether he has the opportunity to make a point of this. I know that he often goes to work last weekend, I think he was still at the World Championships field riding and that he speaks with many sports drivers and of course also with the dome. Perhaps he has the opportunity, even informally, to highlight this problem, because doping sinners do not belong in sport and certainly not as trainers of children. Mr. Chairman. I also agree with a large number of questions raised by my colleagues on how to tackle the cabal harder. That's an incredibly important part. It is a pity that it is not now in the law or at least not sufficiently anchored. I find it incredibly important to be able to take that step together with you in the coming time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Lordema, for your lovely personal story. It's always nice when we have a debate in the Lower House where you can bring in a personal story. We have reached the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.25 a.m. Then we're going to listen to the first-term answer from the Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	The next item is the Act implementing anti-doping policy. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many Dutch people enjoy sports, by exercising themselves or watching them. That pleasure is hampered if athletes do not follow the rules of the game, for example if there is a suspicion of doping use. Just look at the actuality, the Russian athletes so close to the Winter Olympics. That example came by this morning. When you suspect doping, as an opponent you stand differently on the field and as a spectator you look at the game with different eyes. That is why I am in favour of a strict anti-doping policy, so that fair play and pleasure in sport can continue to the highest level. Mr. Chairman. The sports world is also committed to that. Sport associations, anti-doping organisations and athletes take that responsibility. They generally do that fine. I'd like to keep it that way. Combating doping in sport is primarily a responsibility of the sports world. The government supports the sport where necessary. This morning we are discussing a bill with a long history. If I have listened to you correctly: here and there too long history. The title of the law suggests that the law is about the broad anti-doping policy, but that is not the case. There are two aspects to this proposal: firstly, the improvement of the privacy protection of the athlete and, secondly, the legal position of the Doping Authority. This is a necessary step, as far as I am concerned, but it is not the only one. That has also been the subject of your contributions. More needs to be done, on the basis of the coalition agreement, but also because you say so yourself. I really feel like I'm at home with that. Mr. Chairman. First of all, this bill provides for better protection for athletes. I note that an effective anti-doping policy always violates the privacy of athletes. Think of giving up urine or blood samples or passing on where you are at a certain time, so that doping controllers know where and when to check. This is important for athletes, but it is necessary to prevent doping in sport. Everyone actually agrees on that, too. Athletes also understand and support that. With this bill, I foresee that athletes will be able to appeal to the administrative judge against the decision of the Doping Authority. Furthermore, the draft law states that athletes' data will not be provided if it harms the privacy of the athlete in a disproportionate way. With such safeguards, the privacy of our athletes is better protected. That is what I think is important, and that is why this bill is now on the table. There is another reason. The bill is important for strengthening the position of the Doping Authority. The Doping Authority now assumes voluntary consent from the athlete for data processing, but the question is how voluntary such consent is. After all, if Sven or Ireen does not cooperate with doping controls and thus process their data, then they simply cannot start in Pyongyang.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u41	Before you continue, Mrs. Diertens has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u42	I have a question about your remark that athletes have the opportunity to appeal. What does this mean for the Zbo Doping Authority? Suppose an athlete who's made a lot of money with his sport turns in all kinds of lawyers and a claim on a charge goes to the Doping Authority. Is the Doping Authority then able to refute this and spend money and energy on it? Or is the Ministry going to invest in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u43	I will come back to the questions in a moment. I prepared these, too, instead of looking in my pile. Can I just put him on the ice for a second? Then I'll come to the answer in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Data processing of athletes is therefore necessary for the fight against doping. There must be a good legal basis for this. Without this basis, the fight against doping cannot take place. One could say: without a working anti-doping policy, the Netherlands is at risk of being excluded from events such as the Olympic Games. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday you received a survey on the exchange of data between doping authorities and other bodies. You have all agreed to that. This reconnaissance was unfortunately sent to your Chamber very shortly in advance. My apologies. I would have liked to take more time to agree with the various parties, in this case more specifically with the D.A., the Justice Department and the JenV Ministry. However, I wanted to send you the reconnaissance also for the treatment of this bill today. Mr. Chairman. The system of data processing and exchange is legally complex. All parties agree that there is a profit to be gained in cooperation with the Doping Authority, but how this cooperation should be further developed should be reflected in cooperation protocols.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thanks for the introduction. The Minister referred to the report on the provision of data which he gave us yesterday. He says: I didn't have enough time to agree with Justice and Security, Public Prosecutor's Office and police. But that report itself says, on page 5, that there is simply no agreement on content among the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u45	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u46	Are these conversations going on now? Is there any expectation that there might be agreement in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't want to make that jump yet. The issue here is about data sharing between the Doping Authority and a number of bodies where this is possible and a number of bodies where this is not possible. Bodies where this is possible are therefore the Doping Authority, NVWA, customs and IGJ inspection. Where it is not possible, where cooperation on data sharing is still stalling, is with the D.A. and the police. That is because on the side of the JenV Minister, if I understand correctly from my colleague, the serious public interest is missed. That's how far I've come. But I don't think that should be the end of the line. So anyway, I think that this theme deserves further discussion between the two ministries. I have actually expressed the hope that if data sharing is not possible, I would like to know why. If that could lead to a cooperation protocol with the D.A. and the police, that would be dear to me. But then I'm really getting ahead of myself. It's not that far. I need to hear more about that from the JenV Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u48	I would like to thank the Minister for the frank answer he has given. But that is a remarkable answer, in the sense that this Minister has very well justified in the explanatory statement that there is a serious public interest here. That is the importance of public health, the damage caused by doping. That is the basis of this bill, which was passed by the Council of Ministers under Minister Schippers at the time. So how can it be that at the moment the serious interest is being called into question, even though it is the basis of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. I want to keep it all to myself, I don't want to go blackballing to JenV's colleagues. I need more time to have that conversation. I have spoken briefly with my colleague about this, but weighing the concept of "heavy public interest" is what this is all about. I would like to know from JenV's colleagues whether this is a more fundamental issue or whether it is about something practical such as the availability of capacity. I want to find out and therefore absolutely not point the finger at another department. I'll keep it to myself. I feel committed, perhaps not to this law, but to this in the action plan for doping.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mrs. Bruins Slot for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u51	Very briefly. That is the strategy of pressure and dialogue. The question to the Minister is when he expects to be able to clarify. I understand that it comes in the plan of action on how to deal with doping, but when is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u52	I intended to see whether the action plan on doping could be sent to the Chamber before the summer. Then I would like to take this issue into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr Van Nispen also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u54	I'm gonna go with this. This is a very important subject. I support the Minister's approach. I say this first, but it surprises me a little that there are doubts as to whether there is a serious interest in exchanging information on the detection of doping-related crime............................................................................................................................................................................... It seems that the Chamber supports the Minister in his approach with the aim of exchanging and processing more information, but what is needed from the Chamber to help the Minister? May I take the liberty of asking that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u55	I don't think so. You are very clear in your wish. I think I'm in line with your wishes. I think that the conversation should continue, but perhaps I still miss a piece of the discussion that is clearly in front of JenV, but not on my side. I need to focus my energy on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u56	All right, we'd like to hear more about that, but we wish the Minister every success in that discussion. The Minister also stated that it was a question of interpreting the concept of "heavy interest" in terms of: is there a major interest or not? However, he also talked about capacity. Do I understand that the Minister is going to find out whether there is a lack of manpower that prevents us from exchanging data, or whether there is a certain interpretation in terms of: is there a general interest in the fight against doping, the fight for a clean sport or not? Is the minister gonna find out which one it is, or could it be both?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u57	I thought this was the cardinal question. Data sharing with OM and police on the one hand, and the Doping Authority on the other hand could not take place. I read that in the report and I understand that from JenV's colleague because there is no major public interest. This morning, you highlight the importance of sport, sportsmanship and health aspects and ask whether that is not sufficiently serious; I paraphrase it now. I think I would like to discuss this further with my colleague, but I have not yet managed to do so in the context of the date of publication of the report and the discussion here in this Chamber. As stated in the coalition agreement, I want to make a firm commitment to the fight against doping in sport. However, I did not want to pass up the opportunity to discuss this law with the Chamber now, but, as has already been said, more is needed. That is why I am preparing an action plan for doping. I'd like to offer that plan to the Chamber for the summer. I would like to make use of the various suggestions made by Members of Parliament this morning. I will not repeat them all, but I will include them in the action plan on doping. I would now like to answer a number of questions. I shall begin with Mr Van Nispen's questions. Is the picture that we spend less money in the Netherlands than in other countries? I understand this in a way, namely that we spend relatively less money in the Netherlands than in comparable other sporting countries. Fortunately, it is a fact that the Doping Authority's efforts are very focused. In this respect, we can speak of an effective and efficient doping policy. Mr Van Nispen had a factual question about the number of athletes checked. He asked about the figures for 2017, but I don't have those figures yet. In principle, about 20,000 athletes can be controlled. According to the latest figures, about 1,200 athletes have actually been subject to checks. Around 320 athletes deliver whirabout data. There are many more figures to give, but these are a bit to sketch the picture. Then the Doping Authority's budget. Mr Van Nispen also asked for this. That's in the order of 3 million. $3 million is available to the Doping Authority. 1.7 million of these come from VWS and 1.3 million from NOC*NSF. A minimum of 2,500 checks shall be carried out for that budget. It has been said that this should be 300 more in 2018 than in the past year. Mr van Nispen also made a comment on the action plan on doping. In any case, attention will be paid to illegal trade, but also to the use of information. Perhaps also for the type of checks to be carried out and to be carried out. Maybe we can also talk about improving disciplinary justice. It is certainly not an exhaustive list, but these are a number of themes that I am thinking of. Mr van Nispen also asked about RIVM's research into doping in width sports. That study will be completed in March and will then be published by RIVM. I'll let you know when it's available. Another question from Mr Van Nispen was: is there any explicit attention to doping in amateur sport? Yes, there is that attention, for example with the programme Together for a clean sport. I would also like to mention this in the action plan on doping which I give you. Then there is the question of whether I am prepared to lift doping rules into criminal law. No, there's a negative answer to that. We have the cardinal function of sports organisations in the sport system and we must keep it. I consider the responsibility of the sport sector to be very important. I also think that the supporting role we can offer is important. Mr Van Nispen was cautious in his question. This could be partly due to the lack of support in the sports sector for the inclusion in criminal law of infringements of sports rules. I do not know whether it would improve on the current situation with disciplinary proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u58	I wasn't just being careful. I also meant explicitly to say that I was not concerned with tackling the drug users, the athletes. For them the right of disciplinary action is indeed meant. I think I was quite clear on this point, at least that is what I tried to do: that it was about the structures behind it: the whole system behind the doping users. I note that the doping approach now focuses mainly on athletes, with the right of disciplinary action, but that we hardly get a grip on the structures behind it. That's where I care. The question about criminal law was therefore specifically about the drug dealers, the wrong doctors, the managers and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u59	All the speakers mentioned tackling the structures. The position of doping dealers, doctors, managers, coaches and anyone who may be in the system has been taken into account. One of you called it "the cabal" this morning. The athletes are passers-by, but this system could exist. The present law does not provide for a doping-wide approach whereby all measures currently provided for in, for example, the Warenwet, the Medicines Act or the BIG Act are put under the umbrella of this law. I can imagine that the picture is that it is fragmentary, because there are several laws that impose sanctions on medicines containing anabolics or sports doctors who violate the rules imposed by the BIG Act. I'm still looking for a way to map that out. I could perhaps try in the action plan to doping the way we do it this morning at least to appoint the main professions that may be part of the cabal, and to describe the legal framework that exists. Not to tag all the laws again, but to let you see that there's systematic in them. Then perhaps we can see better where there are gaps in the approach of the cabal, to put it homely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u60	I am very concerned about this, and I have heard the answer you have just given on Justice and Security, that they do not yet know exactly whether it is a capacity issue or a matter of principle. With criminal law, we can see that there is a criminal world around it, and it must be prosecuted. Several departments are involved with a signal function. My question is: isn't the Doping Authority the institution or the Zbo to detect such things, also in cooperation, and to see what we can do about them and how we can maintain and follow them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u61	I think we're getting off to a good start with the doping controls that the Doping Authority is doing, but that's not the only thing. We will also have to appeal to the other parties about their behaviour, the doctors, the coaches, the traders. There are, of course, many provisions in other laws. There are also offences according to the other laws, but they are not included in this law. According to this law, a complaint against the Doping Authority ends up with the administrative judge and not with the criminal court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u62	I understand that, but I do understand that the alert function is also in other ministries. How are we gonna coordinate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u63	I think that the signaling function is not so much with ministries, but with sportsmen and sports unions. Anyone can report signals. It has been a question from Mrs Bruins Slot, and I shall come back to it later on whether we have a sufficient picture. I understand from Mrs Bruins Slot that the picture she has of this is not good enough. Frankly, I haven't seen the reporting of the RIVM either, so I have to make a better picture of that too. It does give us a better understanding of whether we have organised that signal function vigorously enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr Heerema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u65	I would like to endorse my colleagues who are talking about a system. We in the Chamber have made it very broad and very clear that this cabal needs to be dealt with. I do not think this has much to do with the fact that the athlete himself is a bit more reluctant. We consider that important as a Chamber. I'd like to give you that. You indicate that it is likely to be made clear, perhaps, in the action plan on the use of doping which we will have for the summer. I want to make sure that's a paper tiger. May I suggest that in a number of practical cases, for example, Thomas Dekker describes very comprehensively what that doping systematiek looked like in his environment to explore how it is done in practice with suppliers, team managers, coaches, talent coaches and doctors? Then you can come up with examples and suggestions on how to deal with them. Otherwise, I fear that we will settle everything on paper that is not enough in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u66	I think we'll get close. I have just said, in reply to Mr Van Nispen, that the cabal consists of a number of parties. Let us set out what the main actors are and what rules apply to them. And I'm not talking about the Code of Criminal Law or the Civil Code. They're too common to me. I'm just talking about the Medicines Act, the Warenwet, the Opium Act, the Law BIG. Then we can see what sanctions are possible. All this in general terms. We don't want to make a paper tiger, we want to provide insight on the main lines. I think that at least I, and I hope you too, will be better able to see if there are white spots in it. Well, at least we've looked at it systematically. A kind of cross section in the form of a case position could be helpful, but I would like to concentrate on what you are putting forward here this morning and better reflect the system behind the athlete, with the measures that are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u67	It's a good thing the Minister's going to map the white spots. This is also in line with the questions the CDA had about the fact that you do not have a good understanding of what is being addressed when it comes to doping, while the sounds are increasingly that doping is becoming an extremely lucrative trade, including in the area of serious crime. The Minister said in reply to that question: we report and report to the various organisations. But I haven't seen RIVM's annual report on those reports either. Does this mean that the minister who has not yet seen it or that the ministry has never had an annual report from RIVM?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u68	The simple answer to this is: I haven't seen him yet. Of course, I am going to look for that report, encouraged by Mrs Bruins Slot's question. If there is, I'll take that as my starting point. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u69	The background to this is that, together with D66, at that time Pia Dijkstra, I tabled several motions in 2013 and 2014, in order to do the right thing about the handling of falsified medicines, where doping is also involved. In a letter in the course of 2016, a good plan of action was put on paper, clearly setting out the structure of these reports, which are biannual reports to the Ministry and a final report from the RIVM. If the Minister needs that piece, I can of course send it to him, because a lot is being produced by the Ministry. However, if that has not happened in the past period, I wonder what priority this had at all in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u70	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u71	The question is clear and I think the answer is equally clear. I see a priority here. I feel supported by the coalition agreement and your contribution here this morning. So I'm gonna find out what's available. Let me do that first and then I'll offer it to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed and answered Mr Van Nispen's questions, and I will continue to do so. It remains possible, as early as Mr Van Nispen, that the Institute of Sports Justice receives data to deal with the disciplinary agreement. The answer is yes. The bill provides that sports organisations may process data in the context of disciplinary proceedings against athletes suspected of violating doping rules. The Institute of Sports Justice is acting on behalf of the Federation in a disciplinary case and is therefore entitled to receive the necessary information according to the bill. Then Mr Van Nispen and later others asked a question about privacy violations by commercial providers. What can you do with this bill about the position of commercial anti-doping organisations? It is quite clear: the bill does not deal with commercial anti-doping organisations. These organisations have their own responsibility to comply with the regulations and thus also with the rules on privacy. I firmly believe that it will help us get the general data protection regulation by the end of May. I also expect that the Personal Data Authority will take very seriously the monitoring of compliance with that general data regulation. Athletes who consider that they have been compromised in their privacy may file a complaint from the organisation itself, may go to court or may give a tip to the Personal Data Authority. Then there is the exchange of information at international level. Mr Van Nispen also asked a question about this. The exchange of data with that international organisation, WADA, and with other EU countries is protected by European privacy rules. That is on the basis of the same regulation that I have just mentioned. Special agreements on data sharing and privacy protection are made with countries outside the EU. Then I will move on to the questions asked by Mrs Bruins Slot. Do you believe that the Netherlands is in isolation with regard to doping rules, because they are not regulated by law here? No, I don't think we're in isolation. Each country takes care of it in its own way. We have assumed a strong responsibility of our own to the sports federations. We are not alone in this; other countries are also doing so. I think that's the right choice. I also listen very carefully to what sports associations think: they like this relationship. Then there's the data sharing issue with the D.A.'s office. Mrs Bruins Slot has thought about this in detail, but in the direction of Mr Van Nispen I have sought to give a final answer. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked what I am doing with Net2Legal's research report, which was presented to the Chamber so late. The answer is twofold. Insofar as the new Doping Authority in the form of ZBO will be able to conclude cooperation agreements with these parties, such as the inspection, customs and the Dutch Food and War Authority, I am going to promote these agreements. On the other hand, I will continue the conversation with the ministry of JenV, to see if we can reach a stronger, more intimate agreement on the sharing of data with the D.A. and the police. Mrs Bruins Slot asked why customs data are given to the Doping Authority only if the latter so requests. The answer to this is that the Doping Authority itself can identify the type of data it needs and at what point it needs to have that data. Such a question arises in practice in consultation between the two parties. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked for the word "kan" on target binding. The use of data from customs, for example, is also governed by customs laws and rules. This may include the possibility that data may not be provided. There must be practical objections to this. It is appropriate for me to adopt an active attitude in this regard and to ensure that this is properly regulated in cooperation agreements. Mr. Chairman. Will the Doping Authority not be directly involved in a medical disciplinary college? That too is a question from Mrs Bruins Slot. The answer is no. Patients have a direct interest. They can immediately complain about a doctor. The Doping Authority has no direct relationship with doctors, but like other organisations, the Doping Authority can report its suspicions or concerns to the IGJ. Then the Doping Authority will not be treated differently from other organisations. One more question about medical discipline. The inspection has never filed a complaint against a sports doctor involved in doping use. That's right, asked Mrs. Bruins Slot. The answer is yes. The medical conduct of a sports doctor is subject to medical discipline. Following a report on a doctor's involvement in doping use, the inspection may lodge a complaint with a disciplinary college. Reports on the behaviour of sports doctors are assessed as the IGJ assesses all reports. Mr. Chairman. Then the question about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u72	Before you continue, Mrs. Bruins Slot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yes, I was indeed concerned not only with sports doctors, but also with doctors in the broad sense and with the prosecution of those doctors for the administration of doping. So it's true that the IGJ never saw reason to start a disciplinary case, despite the fact that we've seen several cases involving doctors in the administration of doping. My question to the Minister is: why has the IGJ never seen reason to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u74	I really should take a look at the inspection to see what's causing it. This question is also divided into two parts: are there any fundamental objections to this? So I had understood the question something else. Mrs Bruins Slot explains that it is not just a question of sports doctors, but also of being broader. I would like to assure you that I will pass on the question to the inspection in the most factual way and have an answer made to it that I will send you on behalf of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u75	I think that's a good idea. The previous documents on doping received from the previous minister clearly indicated that this is also contrary to the doctor's oath. Then it is striking that the body which supervises such rules has not taken any action. When does the Minister intend to find out and inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u76	Perhaps it would be best if I included this subject in the action plan on doping. So then there is not only the question of actualities, or as it is now, but also what our attention should go to. I will therefore include this in the action plan on doping that you are receiving. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bruins Slot has asked for the annual report of the RIVM. I understand that's a public document, and I'll see to it that you get it. With regard to the trade in doping, I have answered Mr Van Nispen's question. I'm not gonna repeat that. I have already dealt with privacy violations and commercial providers. Then Mrs Bruins Slot asked whether there would be any further policy rules for the practical functioning of the Doping Authority. I do not know if that is necessary, but if such practical rules are necessary, I think that is fine. The point is that the Doping Authority can function properly and performs its tasks well. If further policy rules are needed, then we will have to make them. Then Mrs Bruins Slot asked if the Doping Authority would be given additional tasks. No, that is not the issue in the legislative proposal before us, but let me make a comment on Mrs Bruins Slot's amendment. We're going to evaluate this law. Mrs Bruins Slot said in the amendment: three years after the entry into force, you can inform the Chamber about this in the fourth year. I think that's a good idea. I hope to present an anti-doping plan to you before the summer. In response to Mr Van Nispen, I think it is not only good that we evaluate this law, but also the effects of such an action plan on doping. What if we try to take both of them together; not to water things down, but precisely to broaden and deepen the discussion? The amendment states 'three years after entry into force', but if I may take a look at an appropriate moment, I will tell you that I will do so no more than three years after entry into force. I do not know exactly, and it is also a little dependent on you and on the current situation, but that might also give us room to see this cabinet period still a little bit of the result of our actions. Let me finish by saying that the Doping Authority could be given even more tasks, but then I am very much ahead of schedule. Then we could decide. Thus, under this law, the Doping Authority has not been given any additional tasks, but such an evaluation is once again the subject of such an assessment. Mrs Bruins Slot's last question was about the legal protection of the athlete. Mrs Bruins Slot described the co-existence of disciplinary law and administrative law. Is that intersecting or is that intersecting? I thought they could be co-existed, in the sense that disciplinary law is mainly about the content of a doping issue and administrative law on the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u77	The care of NOC*NSF............................................................................................................................................................................. There are two automatic co-operations. The decision on medical dispensation will be a decision within the meaning of Article 1.3 of the General Administrative Law. You can object to that. On the other hand, the Doping Regulations also give room to do so with the sports unions. Which way do you choose? Which road takes precedence over the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u78	I thought that in the preliminary stage, the administrative route would be a priority. I come to the questions asked by Mrs Diertens. She has asked a number of questions which I hope I have already answered. She continued to talk about the retention period of the whereabouts data. They are kept for 12 months. Infringements of the scheme shall be kept for 10 years. These deadlines are set in the International WADA Code. As far as amateur athletes and doping are concerned, I have already mentioned this. Then I come to the guarantees: what guarantees are there for the disciplinary procedure? Penalties for athletes shall be imposed following disciplinary proceedings. That procedure is laid down in the WADA Code and in the National Doping Regulations. Both documents also contain rules on privacy protection and legal protection for the athlete. Mrs Diertens also asked a question about national borders. What is the effect of the Caribbean Act: Curaçao and the BES Islands? This law will not apply to the BES nor to Curaçao. So there are no consequences there. Another question from Mrs Diertens was: how do you ensure that athletes themselves can influence the regulation of doping controls, for example whereabouts agreements? This is done in practice through the Athletes' Commission of the NOC*NSF. That is a practical example. Athletes can influence policy in this respect. How do we ensure that our privacy is properly handled across the European border? I think I've answered that question before. In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation applies. Out there, they're bilateral agreements. In reply to Mrs Bruins Slot's questions, I addressed the commercial providers in detail. They also asked about the network behind the athletes. I think I've said enough about the cabal and the system. Then Mrs Diertens asked: the Doping Authority also controls its own people, doesn't that make her vulnerable? It has been the case for years that the Doping Authority also carries out commercial tasks. It also carries out orders for third parties. For many years, a quality system has been in place for the work her own employees do. That happens in a good way. Such a quality system has proved to be a good guarantee in practice. To Mr Heerema's questions on the approach to the entourage, that is the third word next to 'clique' and'system', I have now entered. There has also been a request for cooperation between the customs authorities on the one hand and the prosecutor and the police on the other. I tried to sketch this morning that this is really a diptych. There are a number of bodies with which cooperation can now get under way. That's not settled tomorrow, but I hear from the Doping Authority that we're in a good place to sit down at the table. There is still work to be done for a few instances. I will give you a preliminary aftertaste in the action plan on doping. Finally, Mr President. Mr Heerema referred to the figurehead function of athletes. He said that athletes sometimes get caught doing doping, but that they can still go and stand wherever they want. Sometimes they are engaged by sports associations, sometimes they are in sports boards, sometimes they appear in television programmes. Mr Heerema referred to the World Cup field riding, in which I was indeed there on Sunday. The proud organisation of the event also said: I now have a sportsman here who, and this one, I do not mention names of whom I know and of whom we all know that he has been convicted of doping and who has not been allowed to practice his profession for a number of years. That athlete's gonna be a sighted guy there. The question then is: is that right or wrong? I think that someone who has been punished after sin, namely doping, and has experienced a rapid deterioration in his career in top sport, is also the one who, born of practice, can well warn against doping.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u79	So I agree with that, but I have made it very clear that there are two types of athletes. On the one hand, you have the athlete who gets caught, regrets it, atones and then says: I'm going to share my experiences with the generation that's coming next. On the other hand, you have the athlete who denies it until there is really no denying it because there is all evidence of doping use, who then reluctantly admits it and says: well, okay, I used it and I don't really regret it; I'm sorry that I got caught and I feel like a victim. There's a difference. It's the last type that matters to me. Isn't it weird that we're seeing these people, those doping suns, back in our sports world? I know that we are not talking about this, but what I am asking you is whether you see a role for yourself to see if we can get that last type of athletes, that last type of doping singer, a little further away from the sporting world. Because I would be very sorry if my child would later get training from such a doping sun there without regret or have him as a talent coach. I think that's wrong. I want that statement made right here in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u80	I can very well endorse that statement, just as I agree that there is no role for the Minister or Ministry, but I am very sensitive to Mr Heerema's statement. Mr President, that brings me to the end of the reply in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr Van Nispen of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u83	Doping is cheating and sporting fraud, it is a danger to health and a risk to the image of sport. I think we agree: this law is a necessary step, but more needs to be done. That is what the Minister said, even literally, and I very much agree with that. I also wholeheartedly support the CDA's amendment to evaluate the law, but also, as crazy as it sounds, to evaluate what the law does not regulate. There will be a policy plan against doping. It is good that, among other things, there are two points that I mentioned, but there are more: combating doping in amateur sport as in gyms, and possibly extending information to young potential sportsmen. I would have liked to ask whether this could be part of the evaluation, but even before I asked that question, the Minister has already promised it. I think it is very good to look at all this by then to see how effective our anti-doping policy is across the board, with the law and with what is not in the law but in the policy plan against doping. When I hear that the exchange of information between the Doping Authority on the one hand and the police and the prosecution on the other is stalling because there is a lack of the major public interest on the part of the judiciary, I am really worried about that. This debate has been going on for a very long time and, in my opinion, no one disputes the importance of protecting the image of sport and not endangering the health of athletes. I would, of course, like to be kept informed of the follow-up to this discussion, in particular whether there are any capacity problems. They are in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, as is well known, but that should not be an excuse not to work on this at full speed. We are not going to have this discussion about capacity problems, but I am going to have it elsewhere with the Minister of Justice and Security. Finally, on tackling doping-related crime. A lot has been said about this, because it is precisely the system behind the athlete, the trader, the doctor and the managers who make big money from it. That is why I am tabling a joint motion from the four speakers today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current anti-doping policy seems to focus mainly on doping users;]] [[Considering that tackling "the system" and the people behind the use of doping such as the drug dealers and the doctors and managers who encourage or administer prohibited drugs is now very limited;]] [[Whereas facilitating or encouraging the use of doping endangers the health of others, with the result that a criminal law approach is also appropriate;]] [[noting that not all doping is covered by current laws and that clear criminal law standards to tackle doping-related crime are now lacking;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how various laws, such as the Medicines Act, the Waren Act, the Opium Act and/or the Criminal Code should be strengthened in such a way that doping-related crime around the athlete can be dealt with more effectively by enforcement and investigation agencies;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that cooperation between the enforcement and investigation authorities concerned is improved and that the various authorities are given sufficient attention to tackling doping-related crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Rudmer Heerema, Diertens and Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34543-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you. I call Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. Doping ruins sport, undermines confidence in sport, spoils the pleasure you can have in sport and harms the health of athletes. For this reason, the CDA welcomes the fact that there is now a legislative proposal to improve that approach to doping. On the one hand, this is because this bill includes better safeguards for athletes, also important in this whole, and on the other hand because there is a better exchange of information for the Health and Youth Inspectorate, but also for the Dutch Food and War Authority and Customs. However, it is important to tackle the system behind sport, which has actually been shared by all the speakers today. These are those who facilitate the use of doping, for example the trainer, the coach or the doctor who is actively involved. It is also important to see where these white spots are now in that approach to the fight against doping. That is why it is good that the Minister is putting in place a plan to improve the further approach to doping, but the CDA also supports the motion of the SP to investigate where these systems are not really working properly and where there are still white spots. The noises heard by the CDA are that trafficking in doping and illicit drugs or the illicit trade in drugs that can include doping are becoming increasingly lucrative. Actually, there's little risk of getting caught. And you can make a lot of money out of it. What signals does the Minister get about this? I asked that question in the first term, but I would still like to hear the Minister. What is also apparent from the Minister's answer is that many different organisations are dealing with this problem, from trade to use. Those many organisations, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Doping Authority, the police and customs, must cooperate very well with each other. This is, of course, sometimes difficult because each organisation has its own priorities. They already have a huge pile of work on their desks. However, it is important, as the CDA thinks, to do that working together well and to have clarity about what you can address each other, where you can charge each other and what you can expect from each other. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the exchange of relevant information from the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Fiscal Intelligence and Investigation Service, customs and the Doping Authority can contribute to a more effective anti-doping policy;]] [[noting that the Anti-Doping Policy Implementation Act does not establish a legal basis for such provision of data for the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the FIOD;]] [[Whereas there is scope for further data exchange and structural cooperation with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the FIOD;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, FIOD, Customs and the Doping Authority, to adopt a cooperation protocol to clarify the distribution of responsibilities and powers and to inform the Sports Legislative Council in autumn 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Diertens, Mr Rudmer Heerema and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34543-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. We have also discussed the role of the various bodies. The various authorities now report to RIVM what they are doing in the field of falsified medicines, including doping, and contaminated food supplements. It's nice to hear the Minister say he'll send the annual report, the overview of what's happening and where it's happening to the Chamber. It's also nice that this is going to happen now. Then the House of Representatives also gets a better insight into its effects. My question is when can the Minister do that? I would like to thank the Minister for the positive response to the amendment tabled by the CDA. To make it clear to everyone what the Minister's commitment was: the Minister's commitment was to carry out an evaluation within a maximum of three years. In the explanatory statement we will add the word'maximum' for the words 'three years'. A modified version will also be included. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The CDA does not expect miracles from this law, but it is a step forward in tackling doping and facilitating the athlete better. The practice will have to prove that this is enough. That is why it is right that this Minister should send a further plan of action on doping to the Chamber so that we can see how we can progress in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you very much. I call Mrs Diertens of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr. Chairman. I'll lower the speaker chair. I'm a little small, so it'll always take a while. D66 really sees this as a first step towards a clean sport. We think that a clean sport is extremely important. We support the motions; that is clear. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that, on the basis of the evaluations, he will also examine the need and need to extend the role of the Doping Authority. For I believe that, particularly in amateur sport and in the field of information, there is still a great deal to be done to reduce the negative aspects of doping. Furthermore, D66 would like an answer to the questions about the doping control in the BES islands and in Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten. I welcome the confidence in our overseas athletes, but how is this control guaranteed? Because they often take part in the Olympic Games, for example, under our flag. And I would like to say once again that we would like to see the corrupt, criminal system behind sport deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you. Finally, Mr Heerema of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. It's a special day today. It is the first time in at least seven years that a bill on sport is being discussed in this Chamber. Sport is not often dealt with in this Chamber, at most once a year in general consultations and once a year in legislative consultations. It is therefore remarkable that four parties have taken the trouble to come to this Chamber today. I would like to thank my fellow Members for having talked so well about this together and also to work together to get this proposal in the right direction. Thank you also to the Minister for the comprehensive answer; I think we are well complementary as a Chamber and a cabinet. Of course, it would have been very cool if we had submitted this law seven years ago, when it was created. Then we would have had the evaluation, we would have had the tightening up and we might have been able to tackle the system, the cabal, around the athlete. But the one-after-best moment is today, so from today on, let's take that good step. Then we might be able to say in a few years' time how beautiful this step has been and that we are pursuing a more effective anti-doping policy. I am not tabling any motions or amendments, because I am convinced that, if we take this step, we will be able to push forward the law in the near future to ensure that we can act more effectively. It is very good to hear from the Minister that we are going to discuss the anti-doping action plan before the summer. I look forward to that, too. That is an important moment, when we can take another step to get that beautiful sport cleaner, so we can enjoy it even more. Mr. Chairman. I have one last struggle I would like to share with the Minister, namely the struggle with the international playing field. In my opinion, despite all our shortcomings in the field of doping, we, the Netherlands, are doing quite well in relation to other countries. There are countries in the world where doping controls are never carried out at all. What can be the role of the Netherlands in that playing field, to ensure that not only our athletes become cleaner, but that athletes from other countries in particular follow the rules a little more? Of course, we have many events in the Netherlands: World Championships, European Championships. Could the Minister perhaps give us another tip or start working on the possibilities offered by this type of competition in order to take the international aspect of doping one more step in the right direction? I can imagine that more checks around World Cups and European Championships will take place in the Netherlands, for example, and that these data will be shared at international level. If the Netherlands can play a leading role in this, I would very much welcome that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you very much. Then we have come to this at the end of the second term of office. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr President. A number of questions were asked in the second term. Mr Van Nispen spoke of the major importance. I repeat that the explanation of major importance here may be felt differently than at the JenV Ministry. So it's not like it's not gonna be seen. Again, I hurry to say that I don't want to show any controversy between the JenV ministry and the VWS ministry. It's about getting attention to data sharing between the Doping Authority, the State's Attorney's Office and the police. That's the point. I am going to try to make a more concrete agreement on this. Mr Van Nispen, on behalf of the other parties, has tabled the motion for a resolution on item No. 11......................................................................................................... Two requests have been made. One request to the government is to investigate how various laws, such as the Medicines Act, the Waren Act, the Opium Act and/or the Criminal Code, should be strengthened in such a way that doping-related crime around the athlete can be dealt with more effectively by enforcement and investigation agencies. Also before this I quickly went to see which laws are in the bookcase with us and which laws are in the bookcase with another department. Of course, I have to keep an eye on that. I assume that most of the above laws are in my bookcase. For the other, I'll have to consult with other parties, but I'd be happy to. The second request contained in the motion is to ensure that cooperation between the enforcement and investigation authorities concerned is improved and that the treatment of doping-related crime is given adequate attention by the various authorities. I would like to make a broad commitment to that, so I will leave this motion to the House. Then I come to Mrs Bruins Slot's questions. We talked about the system behind the athlete this morning. We have also noted that this has not been dealt with in the legislative proposal before us and that it must be done at a later date. For this, the action plan on doping, which you will have for the summer, is the next opportunity. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked what signals are known about the entourage. Personally, these signals are not known to me, but that doesn't mean much, because I'm kind of new in the business. Perhaps the annual report will give you and me a little more insight into the existing signals. Mrs Bruins Slot has also tabled a motion on behalf of the other political parties present here on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u93	Before you go any further, Mrs Bruins Slot has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u94	I find that I have not made my question sufficiently clear. My question was: what signals does the Minister have that there is growth in the trade in doping and, for example, in the illicit trade in drugs used as doping? Do those signals take? The previous minister wrote that around 2013, 2014. I was wondering what the signals are like these days, in the current year 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u95	I must remain guilty of the answer to that question, but it is a very factual question, so I would like to see if I can find the answer to that question. I will not only give that answer as a factual answer to a factual question, but I will also look into whether we can achieve an intensification of policy on that point. Through you, Mr President, I ask for the answer to be included in the Doping Action Plan. Then I come to the motion on part No. 12, which Mrs. Bruins Slot filed. It invites the government, in consultation with police, OM, FIOD, customs and Doping Authority, to establish a cooperation protocol so that the distribution of responsibilities and powers is clear, and to inform the Sports Legislative Council in autumn 2018. I think that's fine with one nuance. I think it will not lead to one cooperation protocol with the whole bups, if I may put it so domestically, but to protocols per body. If I may explain the motion in this way, I would also like to say on this point: Court of Justice judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u96	That's fine. This is indeed an effective approach to doping. For example, the Ministry also cooperates with the NZa or the inspection and there are also protocols per body. I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u97	Good. The motion-Browns Slot c.s. in piece No. So 12 also gets "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u98	That's right. Mr President, then the RIVM annual report. Mrs Bruins Slot asked when the Chamber could receive it. I don't know. I have to go and find out what's going on, but let's just say that it should be possible in this short month and that you will also have some of what we can find in this short month. Finally, Mrs Bruins Slot spoke about the amendment she tabled, which contains a three-year deadline, and then presents the evaluation in the fourth year. Mrs Bruins Slot said: I add the word'maximum'. We talked about that. I think that's a good idea. Mrs Diertens spoke in her speech about the role of the Doping Authority. This is what it is now on the basis of this bill, but when we have the evaluation, I think there is reason to review the Doping Authority's task package again. In my opinion, Mrs Diertens also asked in her speech whether information was a task of the Doping Authority. Yes, that is already the case in the current situation, and it will continue to be the case. Then on the application of the law in force in the BES Islands. As I said, the law does not apply to the BES islands, but I would like to examine whether that is useful and necessary. I can at least do that hand-out in the direction of Mrs Diertens. Mr. Chairman. Finally, there is Mr Heerema's question on the international playing field. I've never been present at the international agency the WADA. That is the international supervisor in the field of doping and doping controls. I understand that we, as the Netherlands, have a very active role to play in this and that when it comes to data protection, we are also one of the active parties to firmly anchor that data protection as a subject in the WADA rules. When I say 'we', it is quite frankly more the Doping Authority that plays an active role in this than the Ministry, but I naturally support the Doping Authority in this active attitude. I have given a little thought to the question of how to give more substance to the Dutch lead role, without always throwing everything into the action plan. I haven't quite figured that out yet. I did not intend to present you with a very thick book, but I would imagine that we share best practices between the Doping Authority and peers in other countries. I'd like to talk to the Doping Authority about that. I would like to mention the result of that discussion in the action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u99	I have two comments to make. I think it is right that we should look in particular at countries where there are no doping controls at all, such as Jamaica. That's where top athletes come from who are competitors of our athletes. Instead of lowering our standard, we need to see how we can raise the standard in those other countries. That's one. Secondly, you say you don't want to offer us a big book, which we then talk about. But if that is sent on time, I don't mind at all that there's a lot of information in there. I certainly do not want too little information on this important subject to be able to exchange views with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to give Mr. Heerema a big book. No, I want it to be practical. This is part of the concept of action plan. There must therefore be concrete actions, rather than descriptions of all kinds and sizes. That's what I'm gonna do. You mentioned the example of Jamaica. We should do this through this active role in the WADA. And these best practices: I think we can do that already. We don't have to wait for that. However, as I have said, the outcome of the discussion I will have with the Doping Authority on this point is contained in the action plan. Mr. Chairman. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u101	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u102	The Antidoping Policy Act will be voted on next Tuesday.
