ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is Question Time. We shall begin with Mr Paternotte's oral question on behalf of D66 to the Prime Minister on the progress of the Sinterklaas entrances. I call Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. "He who can think freely and speak freely is a free man. If the people of a country are free, then a country is free. I want to live in a country like this. These words are very important to me and my confidence in the power of democracy." That's what the Prime Minister said on 4 July 2008 at the opening of the Free Thought Space. He thought it was a sad day, because he didn't think he'd ever have to go on the barricades again for the free speech. "Perhaps in Russia, Cuba or Iran, but not in the free Netherlands of Spinoza and Erasmus." Mr. Chairman. I agree. Whatever you think of Black Piet, last weekend was a low point for freethinkers. Some demonstrations against Black Piet could not continue because of threats. We could all see how a bunch of scumbags charmed protesters with eggs and beer cans, while their kids were standing next to it, and how they were chanting with hate in their eyes, screaming at women with racist language for whore and bringing the Hitler greetings. The Prime Minister has called this "a debate of society," but violence, racism, the nasty soot and manhunts of demonstrators by the city centre of The Hague have nothing to do with living together. The Prime Minister of this free country must be very clear about this. That's why I have three questions for the Prime Minister. One. He mentioned asos and hooligans. Who were those asos last weekend and who were those hooligans? Two. Does he condemn the use of the Hitler greeting by the pro-demonstrators? And does he here condemn the violence, the tossing of eggs and cans by the pro-demonstrators? Three. Yesterday, the Prime Minister suggested that in future he would prefer no more demonstrations. The protesters were attacked. So he doesn't want to see the protesters anymore. That's the world upside down. Does Prime Minister Rutte stand 100%, without nuance, for the freedom to demonstrate, anywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u3	I call the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Before I come directly to the answers to the questions, I would like to say something about what happened last weekend. Fortunately it went well in many places, but unfortunately there were also a lot of places where it did not go well, where indeed the asos and the hooligans have disturbed the matter. I think that's horrible. This is a kids' party. It is very important that our children, like all of us in our youth, can enjoy the poems, the surprises, the gifts and the magic of Saint Nicholas and Pieterbaas. It's terrible that it's gone wrong in so many places. We've seen crying kids on TV who didn't cry because they were scared of pussy or saint but because they were afraid of what was going on on the street. It's okay if society is discussing what pussy looks like. Fortunately, the vast majority of the Netherlands does so in a quiet way. There are people who say: I like Black Piet and I don't want to be thrown away as a racist because I like a black Piet. There are also a lot of people in the Netherlands who are very disturbed by Zwarte Piet. You need to be able to have that discussion with each other. You can also see that this leads to change in society. That's fine. Leave that to society. But there are extremists on both sides. I don't have anything to do with that. Mr Paternotte asks me which of these two groups of extremists were in the picture. Those were to a large extent the pro-Black Piet Demonstrants. They were soccer hooligans who expressed themselves in the most horrible way, indeed brought the Hitler greetings, threw stuff and people added racist lyrics. That is, of course, in a civilized society in no way acceptable. Criminal law and the police are also taking action against this. Finally, I would like to say that I also respect how our mayors deal with it. In particular, I would like to mention the mayor who this year had the honour of bringing in the great man, the mayor of Zaanstad, who conducted the dialogue in his community and who really led the city as a leader. We saw him on television yesterday at Pauw explaining how he did it. I have great admiration for that. I think we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u5	When protesters are attacked, you must protect their right to their opinion and not reward racism and violence by saying that you no longer want demonstrations at that place and at that time. That is why I asked the Prime Minister if he could distance himself from the suggestion that he would find it better if people stopped demonstrating in the place where and when they wanted to express their opinion. So I ask again whether Prime Minister Rutte stands for 100%, without nuance, for the freedom to demonstrate wherever and whenever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u6	Yes, I do, of course. The point I wanted to make is that I would find it logical, especially because of the magic of the whole children's party, that we do not, at least as adults, bother the children as far as the extremes in the debate are concerned. The normal discussion can also be held in front of children, but with the extremes in the debate we should not bother our children. In any case, I believe that the norm should be that we all act like adults when there are children around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u7	We're talking about people who pulled the kids in last weekend. I think it is quite clear that the people who throw eggs, throw cans and chant racist lyrics while their children are standing next to them are the people who make a children's party a tragedy. The Prime Minister said that it was for the most part the pro-demonstrators who caused problems last weekend, but could he perhaps give a few examples of problems that were caused by the anti-demonstrators last weekend, which led him to believe that they are also to blame? I think it is very important that after last weekend we are clear about where we are drawing a line. As far as we are concerned, that is racism, violence and discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u8	I fully agree with that. I also fully agree that the right to demonstration is fully present in this country and that it is up to the local authority to deal with it in a sensible way. Again, I admire how the mayor of Zaanstad, Jan Hamming, did that. He's been trying to manage that. And of course there is criticism of that, but that is part of our work as parliamentarians and ministers. There is, of course, always criticism of the work, but I think that he has done so in a most decent way. I told you, most of the people who kicked shit this weekend, so the soccer hooligans, they weren't kicking shit to get rid of Black Pete. They were doing that to preserve Black Pete. And frankly, they didn't even do it for that; they were just glad that they could kick shit again, regardless of the cause. There are also limited examples of where it threatened to go wrong on the other hand, for example a single arrest of someone who said: I will use this children's party... Well, I'm not gonna use the words he said about it, because you can read that back in the media. But to a large extent these were indeed people who wanted to keep the tradition as it was. But again, they weren't even interested in that; they were totally snorted and under the alcohol engaged in violating public order in an unacceptable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u9	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u10	Minister Grapperhaus was very clear. He said that the people who cast objects on protesters can count on persecution. So I would like to hear from the head of government of this country that he is going to do everything in his power to prosecute these people. And is he going to do everything in his power to get the people who brought the Hitler greetings to prosecute?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u11	Of course. That's the work of justice in this country, and of the Public Prosecutor's Office and our police. I have every confidence in that. I fully support the words of the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u12	I also like to hear if that means that we are going to make sure that the people who brought the Hitler greetings are prosecuted. Because let me make one thing clear about what the conclusion of this weekend should be and about where we stand: it doesn't matter what you think of Black Piet, but we all have to draw a very big line in racism and violence. It is a worthless idea to restrict the right of demonstration, and the worst time to come up with that idea is when the protesters are just being attacked, plundered and racistly accused. I'd like to hear that the Prime Minister agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u13	There is no question that I would like to restrict the right of demonstration. I think that the extremes do not have to express themselves when children are enjoying the magic of the Sinterklaas party. That's what I think; that's what I think, and I'm keeping it. But anyone who wants to have the discussion properly can do so at any time. For that, the right of demonstration is inalienable. Then there's the specific question about the Hitler Greetings. That's really a matter for the D.A. and the police. I do not know if I have the power, under state law, to order that this be prosecuted. First of all, I would like to be given legal support in order to prevent me from doing something contrary to the separation of powers in the Netherlands. But I fully agree with the principles of Mr Paternot's statement. It is totally unacceptable in this country, with our history and in this continent, that someone would have the retarded tendency to bring the Hitler greeting. But again, we're dealing here with complete fools, kicking that shit at risk games and when they get the chance. We, as a society, have turned our backs on this with all the power we have in police and justice years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Mr Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By the way, that kid's questioning hour was so cute!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u16	Yes, very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u17	Shall we just do that every week instead of this Question Time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u18	That's a point of order, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u19	Yeah, I'll put it to the vote later. In October there was a demonstration of Pegida in Utrecht with permission at a mosque. It's been disturbed by 150 immigrant kids who threw bats, eggs and so on. The leader of D66 in Utrecht found it wrong at that time that these immigrant youngsters were portrayed as rioters. He thought that was an unjustified term. The leader of D66 said: perhaps the demonstration should take place in another place in Utrecht. So D66 proposes not to demonstrate at that place anymore, not at that mosque. That's a nice suggestion from D66 I'd like to support. Last Monday, I myself proposed that no more demonstrations should take place in the cultural budget during sintering trips. I was very pleased that the VVD leader, Mr. Dijkhoff, turned out to agree later in the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u20	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u21	What does the Prime Minister think of that suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u22	I have just given extensive answers to questions about my statements about when you could and could not demonstrate. There is a right of demonstration in the Netherlands. I think decent people can make use of that. But those extremes? Boy, don't do it at all. And if you do it already, don't do it in the three weeks before sintering class. I think Mr Dijkhoff's remarks were a little more nuanced. Read them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u23	I'll be sure to. Something else. There are all kinds of people who are shouting: because people have thrown things and so on, we have to mortify our culture and our traditions. So they see their chance to destroy our precious Black Piet, a beautiful piece of our culture. Of course, that's completely insane. Black Piet is black and Black Piet remains black. Fortunately, the Prime Minister has said this on several occasions. Secretary of State Knops said it. We're very happy about that. Will the Minister stick to his position that our dear Black Piet is black and remains black, and will the campaign of all those mayors and former Minister Asscher come to an end to destroy our Black Piet? Because there is no discussion in society, Black Piet is destroyed from above by the Dutch government. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u24	Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u25	What else do these mayors do? What else does Asscher do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u26	That's a total bunch of bullshit. What do you mean, broken from above? This is just a discussion that takes place in society between people who do not want to be portrayed as racist because they like that tradition with Black Piet, and people also friends of mine with children who are colored, who say: by Black Piet I have the feeling that there is a racist touch at the party. You have to be able to have that discussion between decent people in this country. And it's being fed, too. And you also see about time that Black Pete is changing. Read the beautiful book Het Bureau van Voskuil once more: 5,500 pages. In it you can see how popular culture changes over time. Mr. Bosma, I think that's better than this bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u27	No, Mr. Bosma. Then I will go to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u28	Our Prime Minister is a great statesman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u30	Sure. Except for minority rights. I have noted on several occasions that the Prime Minister is very hesitant on this point. Can the Prime Minister imagine that, by expressing himself in this way last year through Mr Knops, who said he had an understanding of blocking those protesters, I thought that was a very bad story and because he himself dives at this point and is not clear, gives room to those who have right-wing extremist views, let things go to hell, threaten others and intimidate others and throw eggs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u31	I think I'm perfectly clear. If people find my words to lead to cross-border and legal behaviour, it's up to those people, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u32	Your second question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u33	I didn't hear that clarity yesterday. The minister did what Trump did last time he was shot. He said it comes from two sides. I believe that this is also a reason for Mr D66 to ask you exactly where you stand. You may be a great statesman, but at this point you are more of a bathing duck on the wave of history. My appeal to the Prime Minister is: speak clearly and do not allow people with right-wing extremist views to intimidate and threaten the children's feast and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u34	As far as ducks are concerned, I leave Mr Azarkan here as my superior. Well, let's get to the substance of the case. In this country, anyone who is legally resident here has the same right to everything we can achieve with each other in this country. This applies both to someone who has lived here for 400 years and to someone who entered here yesterday and is allowed to stay legally. That's what I stand for. Racism and discrimination I hate it and we have to fight it with each other. If you're not sensitive to that and if you try, even if you do, to arm and push against it, then you can achieve anything in this country too. So the Netherlands is still a fantastic country, in which a Moroccan woman can become President of the House of Representatives, in which a Moroccan mayor can become Mayor of Rotterdam and in which unfortunately children are also faced with discrimination at school if they are looking for an internship, which I find terrible. I have spoken against this over and over again, and I will continue to do so, no matter how many ducks Mr. Azarkan brings into this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mrs. Kuik, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u36	Just a point of order, shall we leave aside the wits and the jokes? Something's happened this weekend, so I don't feel like talking about baths. It was a weekend full of violence and racism, just before that. And then my question. All I really need is a yes or a no. Do you think it's acceptable...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u37	Finds the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u38	Does the Prime Minister consider it acceptable to freeze freedom of expression for a certain period of time at any time of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u39	No, of course not. Why would you have to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u40	How hard was that? Do you simply distance yourself from the words of Mr Dijkhoff? And then my second question. The Prime Minister is very proud of the Mayor of Zaanstad and the way in which he organised it, precisely by entering into dialogue. My question to the Prime Minister is whether it is not time for leadership in this country, to bring together the parties who disagree, and to start a dialogue, also under the leadership of the Prime Minister, because we see that it is degenerate too much and that there is a need for union, so that it can be a popular festival again or a children's party for all children.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u41	I would advise the lady to read Mr Dijkhoff's remarks. I don't think she's fair here. That's one. Two: I think this is really a task in the cities, in the villages, in the municipalities. I will contribute to that discussion. That's what we do here, and I did it on Friday and on every occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr Groothuizen, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u43	The Prime Minister is doing something strange. He says, "I stand for the right to demonstrate, but do I have to do it in those three weeks before sintering classrooms?" That is crazy, because the right to demonstrate is about expressing your feelings about something that lives in society, so that people can hear it, and that is about sintering class and not about mid-July and not about legal treatment after it has already been voted on. Can the Prime Minister say that he simply stands for people to have the right to demonstrate at the moments that matter and in the place that matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u44	Yeah, I stand for that, and at the same time it's up to people to decide whether or not they use it. I believe that a proper discussion can be held throughout the year, even in sintering class time, but the extremes that we have seen now are not allowed at all, in most cases and if it is allowed at all, because people still remain within the law while committing these extremes, then I would say: at least do not do so while children are enjoying the sintering class party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u45	Second question by Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u46	That's a clear answer. So it's okay. So, to be very specific, we're not going to do it on an industrial park, but we're just going to do it in the city center?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u47	That is not up to the speaker or me, but that is still up to the mayors who have a very complex task to accomplish, in the implementation of the Public Events Act. They have a great deal of interest to bear in mind. They have the power to restrict and even in extreme cases prohibit a demonstration, and they have it within very tight frameworks. That's really up to the mayors, not the House of Representatives or the government. We make that law, and within that law, those mayors have to relate, and they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u48	Mr Van Raak, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u49	Everyone has the right to demonstrate, even during a children's party, but everyone also has the duty to behave, especially during a children's party. What we have seen in Eindhoven and Tilburg is scandalous and disgusting, but I think it is also a violation of the law. Does the Prime Minister agree that these expressions should be investigated in criminal terms? Did he, like me, see the same headlines in Eindhoven and Tilburg, which uttered the same horrible language? Does he also think that it is necessary to investigate which networks are behind this; who has organised all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u50	Yes, I totally agree with Mr Van Raak on the substance and emotional issue, but there is the separation of the powers of Montesquieu under state law. I have just answered the question about the Hitler Greetings that before I make a public ruling on this matter which may be construed as a charge of prosecution, I would first like to know whether I am not in breach of the division of roles between the Public Prosecutor, the police and the government. The Minister for Justice and Security has already made far-reaching statements about this, which I fully support, from a point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u51	The Prime Minister has already been asked a few times: does he stand for the right to demonstrate? The first answer was yes, of course. Then the PVV asked about the period. Then the Prime Minister said: yes, but of course not in the three weeks before sintering class. So the question is, what does he really mean? It seems that he lets space for himself by saying: no, but then I'm talking about the extremes. And I don't like the fact that he says: it was to a large extent the pro-Piet demonstrators. Can the Prime Minister clarify what he means by these extremes? Because we need to be clear here about the full right to freedom of demonstration at all times of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u52	There is. He's been there all year. I do think that, as with freedom of speech, there is also something in yourself: civilization, education, inhibitions that are in the person himself to decide whether you are using all your rights. It's not like everyone has to spend all day expressing their rights in full pleasure. There's always another boundary in civilization and in your upbringing. That's up to people themselves. That is what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u53	Your second question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u54	The Prime Minister is diving and trying to slip away. I think he should make it clear here that he is giving those peaceful protesters who wanted attention to the fact that Black Pete is seen by people in this society as discriminatory because there are discriminatory elements in that figure, all the space to hold their demonstration at any time of the year. And if the Prime Minister is hiding behind children, then I think he should consider all the interests of those children, and take seriously, for example, the recommendations of the Children's Ombudsman, who has done research that shows that children are really affected by this. In sintering season, discrimination is getting worse. And children say: it must be fun for everyone; it doesn't really matter to us where it goes, as long as it's fun for everyone. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take over the advice of the Children's Ombudsman in the interests of the children? And does he stand for the right to demonstrate these peaceful demonstrators?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u55	At the point of children saying "in Black Piet I feel discrimination" I just said something. That is part of the discussion that is going on in our society between those who attach to Black Piet and do not want to be put away as racists, and those who say: by Black Piet I feel racistly treated. That is a decent discussion, which leads to change. That's what we're seeing right now. This also fits with a popular culture that changes over time. The support for this change is also increasing in the Netherlands. With regard to the other half of the question, I refer to the Public Events Act. People can demonstrate all year round. It's up to the mayor to let that happen as much as possible. It can see a few limitations, for example in public order, in traffic or in health, and then set limits to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u56	At the beginning of this year, the Ombudsman concluded that the right of demonstration in the Netherlands is under pressure. I quote the Ombudsman. He called on the municipalities and the police to "facilitate fully and without reservation" demonstrations. They must also be cautious in imposing restrictions and regulations. I heard the Prime Minister say, "Don't demonstrate in those last three weeks before sintering class." At the heart of that right to freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate is that you should be able to do so at any time, and not at the moment when it is most pleasing to others who may be of different opinion. I would ask the Prime Minister to reflect on this, also in the light of the statements of the National Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u57	I agree. At the same time, that right to demonstration is there, and is quite absolute, and the restrictions are limited, fortunately; we are a democracy. And it is very important that, when demonstrated by people, by a minority of whom an overwhelming majority thinks "what do they want?', The minority is still entitled to hold the demonstration, so that the majority does not decide whether that demonstration is desirable. That is because a demonstration, the means of demonstration, is part of the formation of opinion in a society like the Dutch, and is part of our democracy; just as Parliament and the free press are part of that democracy. At the same time, I maintain that once again we can have all the arguments within ourselves to make use of all these freedoms. It is not the law that limits you, but your own conception and civilization. I am also making my contribution to the social debate and I insist that I believe that the magic of the Sinterklaas party is not helped by what we saw here and there last Saturday in the weeks before 5 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u58	Second question, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u59	But it is precisely with this remark that the Prime Minister gives the impression that he sees and sees as possible a restriction of that right of demonstration. I would really like to ask the Prime Minister whether he would like to give up on this and not make any statements about when he thinks it would be wise to let you hear it or not in public life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u60	Can I use an analogy? I teach at a school with lots of children with an Islamic background. They are very annoyed that some politicians here express themselves in their ears in a terrible way about Islam. Then I will explain to those children that this is allowed in the Netherlands, that politicians in the Netherlands can say very bad things about Islam, that this is freedom of expression, but that freedom of expression finds its limitation in your civilisation, in your personal education. So I am not in favour of restricting freedom of expression. I would argue that everyone should be wondering if this is the time. The same applies to the right to demonstrate. I use that analogy because it is appropriate, including the right to demonstrate. That is my view. I too, as Prime Minister, am contributing to the social debate. I have in no way the need or plan to introduce legislation to restrict the right of demonstration. On the contrary. My political movement stems from the French revolution. Without that French revolution we would still be here with a stand system from the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Thank God it's gone. Coming from that tradition, I am the last to restrict the right to demonstration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u61	We are working on Question Time for half an hour now, and I must say frankly that I find it problematic. I have not been listening here to the Prime Minister of the Netherlands but to the leader of the VVD. Last weekend it was not about extremes on both sides, but clearly very extreme asos, as the Prime Minister called them, who were racist and attacked non-violent protesters. I want the Prime Minister to give up on that, instead of pretending he has nothing to do with extremes in the debate. I don't like that either. I think there are very few people here who have anything to do with the extremes in the debate. It was very clear what went wrong here. These people were being racist. I want the Prime Minister to acknowledge that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u62	I did that five times this afternoon. And now I am doing it for the sixth time in this Question Time. I think it is a good thing that Mr Klaver is probably also saying this to me for party political reasons, but that does not do justice to what I said here in the last half hour or to what I said yesterday morning at the end of the coalition talks. I'll leave it to him. He has every right to do so, but I fundamentally disagree. I don't think it's right either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u63	I come to this because I have not yet heard the Prime Minister speak of the fact that they were racist choirs. There were racist cannonads out there. I hear the Prime Minister around this and say that there can be a demonstration. When are we not gonna act like adults? That is not when we exercise our right to demonstrate, but when we start to swear, we start to use force. That doesn't give a pass, on no day in the year, and certainly not at a children's party. Point it at that. The Prime Minister now makes the suggestion that you should not demonstrate in this country, even if you are nonviolent, in the three weeks around sintering class. I want the Prime Minister to back off from that. If he does not, he has indeed spoken here as party leader and not as prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u64	You can throw a lot of sand into water and say: it's cloudy. That is really what Mr Klaver is doing here. I have answered several questions here that those asos who were there screaming and screaming, snorting and half-drinking have expressed themselves in a terrible and disgusting racist and discriminatory way. In fact, I think it is a terrible thing that we have to say at all, because we should not be doing them the pleasure of discussing this here too. That's how horrible these people are, and that's how terrible it is what they've done there. I know that Mr Klaver feels the same way I do. Then there is a discussion that is also discussed in Question Time, namely the discussion about how to deal with the debate in this society about popular culture phenomena, such as Piet, Zwarte Piet, soot sweeper, whatever. I've drawn attention to that, too. Because besides those extremes, there are other people. I have tried to name these two groups: children, or parents of children, who are self-coloured and feel discriminated against by Black Piet and Dutch people who like that tradition of Black Piet and say that they are not racist because they attach to Black Piet. That discussion has been going on for a number of years, in a decent way, alongside those extremes. This discussion also leads to a change in the phenomenon. It's also part of a popular culture. We see them changing. Last Sunday we saw in an opinion poll that the support for this change is also increasing. A mature society like ours, based on an adult dialogue, brings changes to its popular culture and, in such a debate, takes into account the views of minorities and sensitivities, and at the same time the large group of people who do not want to be put away as racist because they do like Black Piet. That discussion is also important. It is these two aspects that are at stake. If Mr Klaver continues that discussion until I have sufficiently stated that those asos have expressed themselves in a terrible way by bringing the Hitler greetings, discrimination and the expression of racist texts, then that is his right. But I do not think he does justice to what I said yesterday or to what I said here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u65	Thank you.
