ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Ten Broeke and Van Helvert laying down rules for the deployment of armed private maritime guards on board Dutch merchant ships, Room 34558. I would like to welcome both initiators to Vak-K. They are supported in the defence of the initiative legislative proposal in box K by VVD group employees Joël Serphos and Jasper Boon and CDA member Bas Wiegmans. Welcome, too. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this initiative proposal. The first term of office took place on 23 January this year. Today we are discussing the first-term answer and the second-term answer as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members for their questions. These are more than 100 questions. We tried to categorize the answer. Mr Van Helvert and I will then answer them one by one. I myself will address the questions raised about the reasons for the proposal, the approach, the alternatives envisaged, the threshold for private security, the navigation in territorial waters and finally the permits. Mr Van Helvert will answer the questions about supervision, the relationship between captain-team leader, the shipowner, the use of force and the reporting of violence, liability, prosecution and, finally, the amendments that have already been tabled. As you have seen, we submitted a letter of amendment last week. I believe that Friday arrived at the Chamber. The bill has been amended in a number of minor respects with this note. The main change is that we have clarified the rules for foreign licences. Later on in my speech I come to the precise changes. Before I start my reply, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank our support. Behind us are indeed Jasper Boon, Joël Serphos and Bas Wiegmans who have supported us, the initiators, from the two groups VVD and CDA. Stephan de Vries was also involved in an earlier phase. And from the Ministry of Justice and Security we were assisted by Jos van Wetten and Lotte Valkenburg. I would also like to thank them very much for their continuing expertise, support, vigilance and precision. I've seen that we really have the best officials in this country. It is very impressive and beautiful to be able to experience that way. Mr. Chairman. Behind our plenary room is the Passage of the States. That's the place where our petitions are offered. Architect Pi de Bruijn once thought that the voters and their elected representatives could be in a casual way with each other. That is something else nowadays; security measures unfortunately make that impossible. But the people who were on their way to the shopping streets in the Passage, or went back to the terraces on the Square, could then, along the way, pull the people's representatives on their jacket. And in the eleven years I've been walking around here, I've been pulling my jacket on a regular basis, not uncommonly on the subject we're discussing tonight: piracy. It is a subject that is as old as the Netherlands, perhaps even older, and that we, a seafaring nation, are so incredibly well known. In fact, we are so familiar that I cannot explain that we have not been able to solve this problem in full before. While our nation owes everything to the sailing of the world seas, the Netherlands is the last country that has not yet found a solution to protect our merchant ships from piracy if the government itself cannot provide for it. That is true, while the Netherlands is both a seafaring nation and the founder of the law of the sea. I am referring to Hugo de Groot, an icon that is regularly discussed in this Chamber. That brings us back to that State Passage, because there is the monument that is built up of four wall plates from the old session hall of the Supreme Court, the building on the Square that had to make way for our present Second Chamber. The wall plates with the four legislators, Moses, Solon, Justinian and Napoleon, were designed by Roland Holst, among others. Before that, he had consulted his friend the famous Leiden professor of history Johan Huizinga, who in turn consulted his colleague, not less famous, Willem van Eysinga. He was a great admirer and connoisseur of Hugo de Groot. Eysinga then proposed to put a famous spell of Hugo de Groot on the wall plates, namely "Ubi iudicia deficiunt incipit bellum." I see that Mr Baudet is not yet present in the Chamber, but I am not trying to put him to the crown; that would be impossible because he is obviously flying at lonely altitudes, as we all know. But that is what it says on the panels of the Supreme Court: "Where justice ends, there begins the war." That is exactly what we have here behind us and, although in a slightly different form, in today's new building of the Supreme Court. That's not just a little name dropping. That's actually a truth that's been under our eyes for years, and we don't want to face it. Because what did Hugo de Groot mean by that? Henk Nellen, the biographer of Hugo de Groot, said about this in his book A life in conflict with peace, that the essence of Hugo de Groot's work is that the war is permitted, but the possibility of legal proceedings or dispute resolution, for example before a judge, is lacking. Also on the high seas, he added. De Groot himself gives four justifications, of which self-defense here is the most pregnant. That is at the heart of the argument of the founder of international law, international law, a Dutchman. De Groot already understood in the seventeenth century that, just to stay in our popular language, you cannot call the police on the high seas. That insight, enshrined in this book, depicted by the panels in our State passage, is the basis for international law throughout the world, has become known through the famous Mare Liberum of 1604, and is the starting point for the initiators of this law for the protection of merchants, by Martijn van Helvert, myself, and I would also like to mention former colleague Raymond Knops, who is here today. By the way, Hugo de Groot wrote his Mare Liberum on behalf of the VOC, the Vereenigde Oost-Indian Company, in 1604. That was three years before the birth of Michiel de Ruyter, who as a whaler once made his own name as a hijacker, before being a sea hero in the trade wars with the English. But De Ruyter, the first Dutch admiral, also fought the pirates on the Mediterranean. De Ruyter was employed by, mind you, the State, Pensionary of the Council Johan de Witt, but also by the shipowners. Then we could already, and even next to each other. And with our bill, the private option is not secondary, but subordinate to the choice for Marines, the Marine Corps, which was established by Michiel de Ruyter. That corps, the Marine Corps, is engaged in war in the service of our country, but also in the service of our country's commercial interests. I would almost say: just like Hugo de Groot a time before, Admiral De Ruyter understood the essence of our bill as early as the seventeenth century, namely that the conditions for the use of force are determined by the State and that its implementation, if determined by the State, can also be carried out by private individuals. Mr. Chairman. Why do we need this proposal? Why is this proposal now after so many years? Let me begin by explaining why we have come up with this initiative law and what events have led us to do so. The phenomenon of piracy is not a phenomenon of the past. With many contributions that already sounded, that it wouldn't be too bad with piracy. Nothing could be further from the truth. At the time we submitted the law to you, at the end of September 2016, another attack on ships took place that summer. On a tanker flying the flag of the Marshall Islands, an attack took place in the Gulf of Oman. Private security guards then fired warning shots in which the pirates decided to stop their attack. This was an example of private security. But even when the law was in your Chamber, the following incidents occurred. On 17 November 2017, a Panamanian container ship off the coast of Somalia was attacked by pirates. The pirates fired several RPGs, rocket-propelled grenades, onto the ship. Private guards managed to scare off the pirates, after which with the help of another ship six pirates could be arrested by the Navy that was nearby. A good example of private security, hand in hand with the Navy present. On 14 December last year, a Greek ship in the Gulf of Guinea was attacked by pirates. The crew was then held hostage and kidnapped. There was no private security here. In the Gulf of Guinea, the Dutch Navy does not operate either. On 10 January 2018, this year, another tanker flying the flag of the Marshall Islands was attacked and held hostage by pirates in the Gulf of Guinea. Ship and crew went missing after that. Another example of no security. On January 21, we are getting closer and closer to a Panamanian ship off the Yemeni coast; fortunately there were private security guards on board. They fired warning shots, then the pirates stopped their attack. An example of private security. On 23 February this year, a ship from Singapore was attacked by pirates off the Somali coast. Fortunately, private guards were on board. They fired warning shots, then the pirates stopped their attack. So an example of private security. In conclusion, contrary to what we read here and there, piracy is very topical. Perhaps it is appropriate to include the figures now and, at the same time, to answer some of the Members' questions. Mr Van der Staaij rightly pointed out that, where piracy can take place in one place, the phenomenon often reappears in another place. That is what we are seeing now: in the Gulf of Guinea piracy is decreasing, and off the coast of Somalia piracy is increasing again at the moment. As far as we are concerned, Mrs Buitenweg rightly said that piracy was decreasing off the coast of Somalia. Oh, I'm sorry. It's not right, as far as we're concerned. I'll try to point that out, too. I'm sure I'm going to agree with you a few times tonight; don't worry. If we look at the past year, a decrease is unfortunately not the case. Indeed, the number of incidents in Somalia's waters in 2017 has quadrupled compared to 2016. This is demonstrated, for example, by the latest figures from the Piracy Reporting Centre. But we see piracy pop up in more places than just the Gulf of Aden or off the coast of Somalia. Take the Philippines. In 2017, the number of piracy incidents off the Philippine coast doubled compared to the previous year: 10 attempts in 2016, 22 attempts in 2017. Or look at what happened off the coast of Venezuela: one attempt in 2015, five attempts in 2016 and no less than twelve attempts in 2017. Piracy is escalating. Where piracy decreases, you can see that this may have to do with the presence of international maritime operations, such as the EU Operation Atalanta and the NATO Operation Ocean Shield, which have been discussed frequently and frequently in this Chamber. But we all know those ships won't be patrolling there forever. The operation Ocean Shield has recently been terminated. The EU Operation Atalanta has also been significantly reduced. We know ships won't stay there forever. If international circumstances so require, the deployment of our navy may also be required elsewhere. Our frigates can also be sent elsewhere. Perhaps they are more needed off the coast of Libya or in the Caribbean. The cabinet wrote to this Chamber in February 2017, recently, "that there was an increasing interest and therefore an increasing demand to deploy maritime capacity elsewhere in the world, including in the Mediterranean Sea. This growing demand arose mainly from the refugee and migration crisis and the commitment of NATO to reassuring measures." Mr. Chairman. We are convinced that it is not risky to say that the reduction in piracy, which we see in some parts of the world, may be primarily due to the presence of private security guards on merchant ships. It is now permitted under other flags: the German flag, the French flag, the Belgian flag, the Danish flag, the Norwegian flag, the Italian flag. I can extend that list virtually indefinitely. It's just not allowed under the Dutch flag. Mr. Chairman. The security guards often don't even have to take action. Researcher Peter Lehr, expert in the fight against piracy and author of the book Violence at Sea - Piracy in the Age of Global Terrorism, told the NOS on 23 February that pirates are soon to blow the retreat once they see that a ship is protected by private security. The recent example I gave is typical of this. So, as proposers, the widespread international acceptance of private security under conditions defined by the government also reduces piracy. So, as Mr Voordewind rightly pointed out in his speech, we say that the presence of private guards does indeed have a deterrent effect on potential pirates. That does not alter the fact that Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Dijk, too, are right to congratulate you on the fact that we must also look at the root causes of piracy. The question is, of course, what is within the reach of the Netherlands. In any case, it is beyond the scope of this bill. I hope you don't blame me for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u4	However, a small question, despite the fact that this is a wonderful beginning to an argument. Where exactly do the figures to which Mr Ten Broeke refers come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u5	What example do you want the figures or the source, Mrs Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u6	Well, let me keep the question simple: do you use the figures of the ICC and the International Maritime Bureau Piracy and Armed Robbery of the year 2007?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u7	Well, 2007 doesn't seem so handy to me, but 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u8	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u9	This is the 2017 report of the International Maritime Bureau Piracy Reporting Centre of the International Chamber of Commerce. That's where these numbers come from. If the Chamber so wishes, we can still produce a copy of it during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u10	Then I think I have the right schedule for myself, because reference was also made to a number of attempts made in Venezuela. In my view, you said that this figure was one in 2015, five in 2016 and twelve in 2017, if I understand correctly, but the total number of actual piracy and attempts to do so has actually fallen from 264 times a year to 180 times a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u11	No, those aren't the numbers I have here now. We also have some local press sources that have written about it. The combination of these reports and the reports published in the media provide this picture. We do not deny that piracy is declining in a number of places in the world, but the question that D66 should also ask itself is what is causing it. I think I have just indicated that it is not very far-fetched to assume that private security has something to do with that. In the Gulf of Guinea, for example, the Netherlands does not operate. There is private security there, but not under our flag. Mr. Chairman. I have just indicated that Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Dijk in particular pointed to the root causes. We recognize them. They are only outside the scope of this bill. In our view, therefore, it is primarily up to the cabinet to answer the question of what is being done about it at the moment. We are, of course, looking first and foremost at the consequences, but we have seen that the cabinet, with various programmes, is trying to promote stability, legal status building and also the extension of legitimate authority in, for example, Somalia, in the period 2014-2016, with an amount of 5.5 million, to name but a few. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the approach to the causes and the consequences of this phenomenon goes hand in hand. So you will not hear us say: forget the root causes. We are only focusing here on the phenomenon itself, because the approach in this area is so clearly inadequate. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is an obvious need to deal with this by means of legislation. Mr. Chairman. The consequences have, of course, led us to this bill. As far as we are concerned, Mr Öztürk made a good point when he stressed that this was about people. The crew members of ships, like everyone else, are entitled to safe working conditions. We have only managed to get the figures on this point. According to the same Maritime Monitor that has just been mentioned in the interruption debate with Mrs Belhaj, in the Netherlands, 4.895 Dutch and 22.199 non-Dutch seafarers work on our merchant ships in 2016. They are supported by 2.611 people ashore. Those are huge numbers. All those people on those ships have a home front, too. In this process, we have been in contact with, for example, the Association Maritime Family Contact, an association of, for and also by family members of seafarers. I can tell you that this bill is of particular interest to them, because the idea that their partners often have to sail husbands sometimes through dangerous areas badly or insecure keeps them awake. Their stories also touched us and motivated us to take this initiative. Mascha Bongenaar, spokesperson of the Association Maritime Family Contact, already shared these concerns with us in 2014. I'd like to quote her, because that's what stayed with me. She said: "Every time we talk about piracy, we talk about principles and rules in The Hague. But it's never about us, never about the seafarers and their families. When will The Hague realize that you can't send a ship through the area unprotected? There are still attacks. Every time a ship is sent through the area unprotected, women, children, family and friends are in uncertainty for weeks. And that does something to you." She spoke these words in 2014 when offering a petition exactly in the State Passage, under the words of Hugo de Groot written there and which I quoted at the beginning. That spell has become a commandment for me. It is a pity that it has taken four years for us to stand here now to offer something to Mascha Bongenaar and all those other people who are concerned through the legislation. 'Cause that's what we're for. Of course there are also commercial interests and the significance of this sector for the Dutch economy. We must not lose sight of them. Mr Van Oosten, Mr Markuszower and Mr Van der Staaij made a very clear reference to this in their contributions. In 2016, the maritime cluster provided employment to more than 271,000 people, of which 166,000 were directly employed. The combined production value, i.e. the added value, was 54.5 billion. The direct value added for our gross national product amounted to 18.2 billion. Indirectly, another 5 billion was added. With this, the maritime cluster in the Netherlands generated more than 3.3% of our gross domestic product. By comparison, the port in Rotterdam did 3.1% in 2015. The Dutch shipping industry itself generated a turnover of a small 5.8 billion. The direct added value of the Dutch maritime sector to our GDP was 1.4 billion in 2016. In short, it is a lot of money and a lot of jobs. Each cargo is linked to jobs at sea, land-based jobs, suppliers' jobs, legal service providers' jobs, banks' jobs, technical support jobs, and so I can continue. Mr Markuszower asked how many merchant ships have chosen to stop trading under the Dutch flag in recent years. That was already discussed in the written round we had. We now know that 267 ships have been registered from the Dutch register since 2012. Separated per year is the following numbers. Please note the ascending number. It was 51 in 2012, it was 80 in 2013, it was 62 in 2014, it was 74 in 2015 and it was 79 in 2016. Should there be more, so I ask this Chamber. The government and the shipping sector do not themselves keep records of the reasons for flags. Unfortunately, therefore, estimates can only be made of flagging out for the reason I have just mentioned. I cannot put a specific link between missing legislation and flagging out ships on the table right now. But take it from me that this connection has been clearly established in our extensive discussions with the sector. You can also imagine that flagging out is economically attractive. It is that most shipowners are still too proud to fly the Dutch flag, otherwise this process would have taken even bigger forms in our firm belief. Contact with shipowners also shows that it is difficult for these companies to operate under a different flag. These are companies that have often started as a family business. They're not rarely owned God-fearing, Orange-minded and proud Dutchmen. They are companies with a long track record that is consistent with Dutch history. They are companies like Van Oord and Anthony Veder, which belong to our heritage. Those are proud carriers of the Dutch glory. Flags out, these companies only do so if nothing else is left to them. And let's be honest. All the other European countries have made it legally possible for their merchant ships to hire private maritime guards, so the opportunities for ship-owners to escape lie ahead. Mr Markuszower mentioned it. According to the KVNR, freighters would often explicitly not flag their ships in. This is the reverse process because of the lack of legislation on security guards. So the chance that the Netherlands will not attract more activity will also be increased by missing legislation. A ship like this already produces a lot for the Dutch economy every year, but the whole sector is the Achilles heel of our economy. Then, of course, there are those who do not flag out, but illegally and therefore without supervision, certification and regulation take on board security guards when they are sailing through risk areas. There was quite rightly a lot of talk about this in the Chamber. These shipowners do not opt for a foreign flag, but hire illegal security. The examples are not mentioned publicly by the shipowners, I would almost say: of course, not even though the existence of this phenomenon was not excluded by the shipowners in conversations with us. Formally, the KVNR claims not to be familiar with these illegal practices, but I do not think we should assume that there is any illegal hiring of private security guards. I would like to draw your attention to publications that have already been published in the Dutch press, for example in Het Financieele Dagblad of 9 November 2011. That publication is about the Dutch vessel owner Vroon shipping, who announced that he wanted to take armed guards on board, while flying under the Dutch flag. A publication in Trouw of 18 July 2013 is an article with the same meaning. So we do not think Mr Öztürk's assumption is crazy. Because he already pointed out that it probably happens secretly. So you get the wild west situations that none of us want: Rambo at sea, Blackwater-like companies. That's what we're all hesitant about. Because we do not want that, we want legislation. Mrs Van Toorenburg also pointed this out. If we don't pass this law, that doesn't mean there are no private security guards. It means they won't be there under our terms. I don't think I have to explain that we shouldn't want to. Then there is the approach in other countries. Mrs Buitenweg asked about the experience in other countries. It referred in particular to the experience of the use of force by private security forces in those other countries. I have to tell you that we have done our best, but it is difficult to get objective data on this. However, we have found some academic studies on the rules of engagement, regulation and supervision in other countries. We also mentioned this in the note following the report on pages 8, 9 and 10. We also address questions raised by the PVV Group. More specifically, we refer to Germany, France, Belgium, Denmark, Norway and Italy. I can mention these studies here again, but that goes too far. We have not encountered any examples in the literature and online of situations where incidents have occurred on ships or where private maritime guards themselves have gone beyond their control. So I'm going to have to keep the answer to that. Now that we have talked about the reason to write this initiative law, I would like to comment on the process of creation. Mr Voordewind said that this was a long time ago. I believe he said, "As long as he's in the Chamber." That's as long as I've been there: about 11 years; we share the number of years of service. I myself have now experienced three coalitions, to which I was allowed to contribute. None of them were able to provide clarity for our merchant. That is not the fault of the PVV, because just like the VVD he wanted to continue, but did not get to it. That is also not the fault of the CDA, which is a very understandable, but very respectable one. How can I put it, Martijn? (i) the development of the economy; (ii) the development of the economy; (iii) the development of the economy; (iv) Nor is it the fault of the Labour Party, which could not get past that private element, despite the fact that all the PvdA ministers had long drawn a different conclusion. It's not other people's fault either. It is mainly the fault of my party, the VVD, because my party was the common denominator in all those coalitions, even though there was never a majority in the Chamber. Unfortunately, that was also a solidity. We could never force it in the successive coalitions in which we participated. And actually, today, we can't do it again. Two years ago, when the captains' association itself started to plead for private security, I thought it was an important moment to think that this was the time to come up with an initiative legislative proposal as a Chamber itself, now that it was not established in successive coalitions. As a result of Mr Markuszower's comment, I feel obliged to mention something about this timeline in order to clarify why the VVD group did not support the PVV motion in 2016, which he often spoke about in his first term. Your colleague, Mr De Roon, who presided over the previous debate, indeed tabled a motion on 7 July 2016 calling on the cabinet to make legislation possible. At that time, this proposal for an initiative was already in the process of being drafted. The captain's association had already expressed a positive opinion on this legislation at that time. The captains, the maritime personnel and the shipowners were on the same page for the first time. That was the unique reason for me to come up with a proposal, as I have just said. However, it was in particular the support of the captains in conjunction with the story of the home front that I gave just now to those who gave us the key to breaking the deadlock that has existed for so many years. That was more than a month before Mr De Roon tabled that motion. How did we do next? Mrs Buitenweg said it was a pity that in trade-K there were only men. I think she had to get over that. That is what I shall say 'unfortunately'. Mrs Buitenweg, I do not know whether you will be able to get over that today. You have to do it with us. I can assure you that support has not been selected on the basis of gender nor on the basis of the motto that all those who want to sail capes must be men with beards. But Jan, Pier, Tjores and Corneel are called Jasper, Joël, Bas and Martijn. We have not least been persuaded by the women, especially those from the home front. I think it is not unimportant to mention here that the patron of the merchant navy is at least a woman. That's Princess Margriet. Let me turn to the point made by Mr van Dijk about the Dutch shipowners' lobby. He suggested congratulating them, as he believed the lobby had succeeded in moving us to this bill. This is a misunderstanding that we want to eliminate. In 2015 we made that balance really independent. I hope that the answer I have just given to Mr Markuszower will be sufficient for you too. I would like to mention that in the spring of 2016, when we were engaged in the talks, we were the first to contact the Nautilus trade union. We have also reported on this in the explanatory memorandum on pages 15 and 16. I hope that appeals to you. Mr. Chairman. We have also looked at alternatives. Of course, as a chamber, we've been working on that for years. Mr Van Dijk himself proposed to reduce the Vessel Protection Detachment there is the abbreviation "VPD" for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I believe that many in the Chamber have hoped for this and have sometimes proposed it. We have also followed the debate on this in recent years. I am sure Mr Voordewind will remember that, because he regularly asked for it. The firmness with which Defense has now dimensioned the VPDs on eleven people has led us to come up with an initiative legislative proposal on our own. We have seen that the cabinet says not to want or reduce the VPDs. I would like to leave the answer to the Minister. In this case, that's the Secretary of Defense, I suppose. But there does not seem to be a flexible solution. That's what we have to do with it. As MPs, we do not want to dictate how quickly and with what numbers of Defense Marines should deploy. But we do have to deal with the answer we've had in recent years. We've asked for that often enough. Mr Van Dijk has witnessed this. I've done that myself on a regular basis. Mr. Van Dijk also noted that there is now more money for Defense and therefore more money for VPDs. However, our impression is that it is not just a question of money. This is mainly about flexibility. Mrs Buitenweg asked a similar question about the long-term deployment of VPDs on ships. Again, it is up to the cabinet to assess this. Of course, that's not what our bill is about. We have looked at the response of the last few years in this respect. We see that the cabinet does not think it can come up with solutions that would make your solution possible. We think our bill will cover that gap. Mrs Buitenweg also asked why we did not opt for a state law. I think that's a logical question. We've been thinking about that, too. As far as we are concerned, it could have been that we would probably have been going on for a few more years, because you need very specific knowledge of the legislation in Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. I would almost say that my original co-author, Mr Knops, is now Secretary of State and you should ask him. In any case, we have opted for this law because of urgency. But we have stipulated in this bill that this law will be repealed if a state law follows. Because maybe this could work as a trigger. So in the long term, it could still be made into a state law, but at the moment we believe that the certainty for captains, crews and home fronts should lead to longer delays. Otherwise it is simply not justified from the point of view of safety, we believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u12	I would like to come back to the previous question: on the ad hoc nature of the spot market, which made it very difficult to obtain sufficient security from those VPD teams. In response to Mr Voordewind's questions, the Defence Department has said that it is prepared to experiment with the possibility of placing teams on these ships for longer periods of time. I had asked whether applications had been made for this. As far as I know and as far as the Minister's reply is concerned, no one asked for that assistance at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u13	Yeah, that's the last information I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u14	There was a willingness on the part of the Defense Department to experiment with this, to allow people to be on those ships longer and thus to remove part of the sting from the problem, and then no applications were made for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u15	I don't know. Perhaps the Minister will be able to provide more, more or more up-to-date information on this matter. We do not think this will remove the problem. It could be a nice experiment. Since we don't even know if there are applications, it could light up a hint of the veil or the shipowners themselves believe that this can provide the solution. I'm gonna have to see if the government has a better answer to that later. In any case, the proposers do not agree with you that this takes the sting out of the problem, which is mainly about flexibility and speed. That flexibility can't provide for the DOD when it comes to smaller VPDs. Whether she can offer for a longer stay of those VPDs, we have not seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u16	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u17	To come back to that state law, we have included in Article 19 of the law that it will expire as soon as the state law comes into being. That could work as a catalyst, but I would like to leave that to the Minister. Let me now turn to the specific questions on the Article-by-Article examination of the proposal. I'll start with the thresholds for hiring private security. I think Mr Voordewind put it most correctly. He said that this proposal amounts in short to VPD, unless. It's not a side-cast, it's a sub-cast. You're gonna have to look at a VPD first. If there are good reasons, and they need to be justified, it is only possible to use them privately. Unlike in some other countries, it is not parallel; first we want VPD and then private security. That's the starting point, that's what we really chiseled in marble. That is also philosophically the only right starting point as far as we are concerned, if you believe that the government must at all times determine the conditions under which violence may be used, because then the government holds it in its own hands. That is why we often leave the details to that government; at AMvB, for example. In the process of development, the government was primarily elected. Key elements of this legislative proposal have therefore been delegated to the government, which, by general measure of governance, has to see that it implements it. It will then be able to fill that out flexibly. This is also in line with the advice of the Council of State. The principle "VPD, unless" works as follows: it is not allowed to leave armed guards on board without the Minister's explicit permission. The consent shall be granted if the provision of a VPD is not possible or not within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the Minister authorizes armed guards if, although in theory, the VPD protection would be possible, the shipowner would have to be disproportionate to his pre-planned shipping routes for his transport or would have to incur disproportionate additional costs. All this is contained in Article 4 (2) of the bill. It is therefore up to the government to determine exactly how it is to be standardised in a general measure of governance. In doing so, we meet precisely the conditions of the De Wijkerslooth Committee, which has also advised on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u18	We also discussed this in the first period: what are the distances, what are the costs? Mr Ten Broeke now says: we would like to leave that to the government. It seems to me at least right that the Chamber should have access to it before that sort of thing is recorded. Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u19	No. In fact, the debate in the first period would give rise to suspicion of the opposite. Because the interesting thing is that part of the criticism, which, for example, came from the D66 group, was that we would have wanted to fill in exactly how many miles would have to be bypassed before private security is addressed. That has not been stated in the bill, it does not say that, and we have now made that clear. So, no, we don't want to fill that out. We want the government to fill this out, because it must be able to adapt it according to the situation that can arise anywhere in the world, of the high risk areas through which it must be put at risk. That could be several miles, but it could also be less. We should not want to put that into practice here in the Chamber, and certainly as initiators, precisely because we want to support the principle that it is up to the government to determine where and under what conditions violence may be used. In our view, it would be wrong to give further details now. That's why we need to do it with AMvB. An indication we gave just the last time, speaking about 200 miles, provoked exactly the opposite discussion. It was stated: now you will prescribe exactly when private security can be hired. No, that wasn't already in the bill, but we gave it to the Chamber Chairman, I have to do it through you to what would be the possibility. So we have left that very clearly to the government. That is also in line with the De Wijkerslooth Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u20	I understand Mr Ten Broeke's considerations, but this system may lead to the House being surprised. Because what if the government is going to apply very questionable criteria? Could Mr Ten Broeke perhaps give us an example of how this will ultimately be done? Distances and prices must be agreed by the government. How can the Room check for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u21	We gave that example last time. This can be done, for example, by working with a percentage that has to be in between, but then you have to keep a constant eye on market prices. However, we have not been able to obtain these market prices everywhere either. So you're gonna have to hit the air by then. The number of miles to be avoided naturally depends on how piracy develops as a phenomenon. We have seen over the past few years that this can be rather diverse and that it also arises in new places in the world. It also depends on where in the world you come across this. The Strait of Malacca is really different from the Gulf of Bengal, the area off the coast of Venezuela or that off the coast of Somalia. When we set an example, the criticism was that we were too specific. Now that we have once again stressed that it is not in the law, but that it is up to the government, which I believe is also philosophically the right argument, your question is whether we can make it more specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u22	I understand that. But can Mr Ten Broeke tell us how the House can control this? Suppose your law comes into force and we are faced at some point with the use of private security under the terms of this minister. If Mr Ten Broeke does not agree with the distances and prices used, will he not be able to say something about this? Can he still correct the government on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u23	Of course, we as a Chamber always have that possibility, because control is by definition ex post. Unless you wish to send in advance, but then I really have to refer to the first term and the debate that took place at that time, where too much steering at least in some of your Members led to the suggestion that we also steered the earlier deployment of private security, which is not the case. We want to stick clearly and clearly to the principle of "VPD, unless." The use of private security, and thus the possible use of force, therefore depends entirely on the conditions laid down by the State. The State must be able to do so flexibly. We can all see that. We have, of course, seen some amendments passing by. They're gonna respond to that later. My colleague, Mr Van Helvert, will go into this in more detail. However, I would argue against those in the Chamber who felt that we were too specific the last time that we thought we had learned from those remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u24	In my view, we have tabled an amendment to organise a front-end procedure precisely on the point of Mr Van Dijk, so that after the cabinet and the proposers have completed it, the Chamber can still look into it if necessary. My question concerns Article 3. I understand that Mr Ten Broeke is coming to an end. As far as Article 3 is concerned, if I do have it, he also mentioned the issue of licensing. Article 3 (3) also states that licences may be issued by other Member States of the European Union, but even by states outside the European Union. My question in the first period was whether we are not giving up the licensing obligation very far, when we even allow it to states outside the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u25	First of all, I am pleased that you have once again pointed out that there is an amendment which we will have to respond to later. A veil does indeed give the opportunity to look closely, although still afterwards. Mr Voordewind's question on what to do with other countries. The last letter of amendment that has been sent to you will see to it. The initiative law that we have proposed makes it very clear that the same conditions, the same requirements and the same types of certification must naturally apply. So you can call in any country at any time, but you will have to meet the exact same requirements. There will also have to be a treaty in which that is already guaranteed. So simply opening up this licence to countries outside the EU at first we wanted it to be limited indeed It is not only EU law that is necessary. If you were concerned about the quality of the security that can then be hired, you would not have to, and I would like that care to be taken away immediately because all the requirements laid down in the law apply to these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u26	I have read that too, but of course you are talking about countries such as Kenya and Tanzania that conclude a treaty with the Netherlands and then under the same conditions that have to issue a permit. Only, Kenya and Tanzania are far away and we know the corruption in those countries. Then how do you arrange that supervision so that such a treaty is actually enforced by the licence publisher in those countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u27	It is now clear that a licence from another country will only apply in the Netherlands if that licence, I quote, "provides a level of assurance at least equivalent to that pursued by or under this law'. That is Article 3 (3) which you have just pointed out. The Minister can also draw up policy rules to further develop this point, which is also specific to the principle. It is not, therefore, to stay in the example of you, that a Kenyan licence would suddenly and suddenly be valid in the Netherlands. This can only be done if the guarantees provided by the Kenyan law are equivalent to the Dutch guarantees; I believe that Mr Van der Staaij made a comment on this in his first term. These guarantees must therefore be absolutely equal to the level of national authorisation. That is a guarantee that this security is offered. Materially, therefore, all important requirements must be met by all countries which have companies that would apply for a licence in the Netherlands. I don't know if the chance of a Kenyan company is gonna make it much bigger. I just don't think so, but we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u28	I would like to come back to the remark that the Council of State has indicated that it is not itself to name two specific 'unless' aspects, but I do not think that is what the Council of State has indicated. The Council of State has indicated that the authors and the proposers have written down two criteria which are actually too little fundamental or lack of evidence or something demonstrable in order to depart from a whole principle. That is why the proposers have chosen to delete it in the end. But that does not mean that it is not today's task to at least look for a generality that you believe should be departed from. If that can't be financial because it's hard to prove, then that sucks; if that's not the number of miles because it's hard to tell and it's changing, then that sucks. But I may ask for something else to be indicated, I don't know, so that the Chamber has some kind of image of what you think of what would be legitimate to deviate from this principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u29	In order to avoid the confusion of speech that threatened to arise in the first term, now that we have here exactly the mirror image of Mrs Belhaj's question: I remember that in the first period of time the block as you dealt with it has been referred several times to 'the 20% criteria laid down and the 100 mile criteria'. They're not in there. The initiators did not incorporate this in the bill. They called it debatable and complicated at the time. May I make it quite clear here that the bill does not speak of 20% and 100 miles, but that we have meant that to the point? And when we meant the direction, Mrs Belhaj's criticism was that these were questionable, complex boundaries. And now that we've made it explicit once again that it's not there, she wants boundaries. We believe that, if this bill receives the support of the Chamber, the government itself must get to work in order to operationalise it. This is also specific to the law, that you have to propose an AMvB for legal criteria. Thus, the law gives this very clear as an order. That is what Article 2 (2) (a) and (b) even says. Again, the law doesn't give a hard 20% requirement for the cost and the law doesn't give a 100-mile requirement. I hope that I have eliminated the misunderstanding and that Mrs Belhaj feels reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u30	No, the misunderstandings have not been clarified at all, because I believe that Mr Ten Broeke is really structuralally refusing to understand me properly. You submit a bill, you suggest what criteria that might be, which the Council of State says: these are indeed not convenient criteria. The initiators then say: well, then we delete it, then we leave it open and then the cabinet can decide what's useful. But your entire bill is based on "VPD, unless," on "deviation from a principle, unless." Then surely the Chamber has the right to know what to think about for a legitimate reason? Then I can't agree with it, but it's just weird not to report anything. And that is the question I am asking: whether there are some generalities to indicate, because indicating financial aspects as "unless" could already be very debatable. It seems to me that you have had proposals or made comparisons with something else to give us something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u31	Yeah, which leads to 20% and 100 miles. That could be a pointer. That's what we motivated. Again, when it comes to costs, we do not know all the offers that deal with the market. You can't watch it from month to month. You might be able to do that from one year to the next. You could ask another question about that. But we motivated that. That doesn't make any sense either. We have given a hint for that. The criticism was that that was debatable and unclear. I really want to contradict what Mrs Belhaj is suggesting right now. If you adhere to a principle, then you leave it to the government, because we believe that the use of force, whether by marines or by private security guards, is up to the government. Then I'm talking about the conditions for that, the places in which, the way in which and how it is controlled. There are also many reasons, including in all the examples I have given, not to stick to the law, after which, if piracy suddenly changes place, as we saw in Venezuela, the Strait of Malacca, or if piracy may come back in another form, we have to change the law because 100 miles suddenly turn out to be 120 miles, or perhaps only 80 miles. That is precisely what we, as legislators, should not want, because that would undermine the principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u32	I was somewhat triggered by the remark that it is philosophically correct that it is in fact up to the executive to decide where and when violence may be used or at least to replace VPD teams with private security. I would like to hear why that is precisely up to the executive. I'd like to hear some support. In my view, it is an excellent thing for the representative of the people, since we are also talking, for example, about the use of force in the police. That really is an absolute task for Parliament. So where's the big difference here? Is it not up to the executive to set some general standards for this? And, of course, the precise situation that arises lies with the executive. But it is also up to the Parliament to know what is actually the principle that this is going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u33	Yes, but we are very clear about principles. It does not relieve the Chamber of the possibility, even the obligation, in the eyes of some spokesmen, of interfering. That's possible, especially if there's a front. But maybe we have a little difference of opinion. I was gonna say this later, but I can bring it up now. Let's take the De Wijkerslooth committee for a moment, as some kind of entrepreneur between the two of us. The Wijkerslooth assumes that the monopoly of violence is not absolute. I quote: the monopoly of violence allows for the granting of forms of armed self-protection, but only if there is a duty of care by the government which cannot be sufficiently respected. We then take it in such a way that the duty of care must be properly respected, but the conditions under which this is done must be set by the government. By the executive and not by a parliament. We can change that later. We can control it afterwards. We do the same with the police: incidents are discussed in the Chamber. That can also be done here, but the conditions are issued and determined by the one with whom the sword power rests. That's the state, that's the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u34	The government is not just the executive. I'm kind of attached to saying that anyway. You quote from the De Wijkerslooth report and rightly say that it states that the monopoly of violence is not there if the duty of care cannot be properly respected. There is a difference of opinion in the following. If something is too expensive or people have to detour too far, you consider that 'unsatisfactory', which I do not think is a good argument. My question is about the interpretation. Do I understand that there will be an AMvB in which it will be very precise from which miles it will be too far around and from what amount it will be too expensive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u35	Yeah, it could be. It can therefore be adapted. The Court can therefore supervise it. In the written procedure, we also made suggestions to this effect, which, as far as I am concerned, were mistakenly understood as part of the law. Well, I hope I've taken that away now. It is indeed up to that part of the state, the executive, to determine the conditions for that. That seems to me to be the purest thing. That's how it happens to the police, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u36	No, Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u37	That's what I'm trying to do. I believe that the Minister will also deal with this in his contribution. The suggestion is made that it would be more expensive to go around and then it would no longer be proportionate or at least disproportionate costs. I think that is a remarkable argument, because it would mean, after all, that if we go through the situation to the country that if you live in an unsafe neighborhood, you are supposed to live elsewhere before there is a duty of care and you can get protection from the government. The duty of care applies and must be adequately respected. At the time when the government itself states that there are areas in which it cannot carry out this duty of care, for example in the Straits of Malacca, or where there is a need to avoid disproportionate costs, is it not strange that if the government can at the same time determine the conditions under which private security can be used, then the duty of care will still be met?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u38	I want to know how far you are with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u39	I think I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u40	Because Mr. Van Helvert...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u41	... at 80%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u42	80% have you had?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u43	Yes, of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u44	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u45	I was glad you didn't ask in miles! Mr. Chairman. We've had the duty of care. Mrs Ploumen, who cannot attend the debate tonight, had a question about the costs for the VPDs, which would have fallen in recent years. Questioning the shipowners showed that the costs charged to shipowners have not decreased in recent years. They have remained about the same since 2012. To add some image and sound, a term that is always used in the military sphere: shipowners pay a contribution of about €5,000 per day for the deployment of VPDs. With an average bet of eight to fourteen days, that will be about €40,000 to €70,000. The real cost of a VPD for Defense, let me add to those who say that it can only be VPDs, are much higher. The costs consist of logistics, overnight stays, transports, additional fees for the marines. So the Department of Defense is funding the VPDs. The scope of a VPD is, of course, part of the debate. As you have all pointed out, it is clearly not open to discussion. Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van Toorenburg have asked whether it is real to expect shipowners to continue to use VPD services if they become more expensive than private security. If private security becomes no more rule than exception, Mr Voordewind added. Private security will not become a rule until exception, is our impression, because VPDs simply remain the starting point. Derogations may be made only under the conditions laid down. Within the spot market, these conditions are likely to be met more quickly than on very large ships, where VPDs can be used in any case. Also in that spot market, the shipowner must first look at a VPD, first accept a VPD. Private security can only be provided if the VPD cannot be delivered within a reasonable period of time. Without the need for a long journey or a great deal of extra costs, I would add. That's a black-and-white bill, so there's that hook. We don't have the amounts anymore, but the hook is there. As far as we are concerned, this cannot be blackmailed once it has been filled in via AMvB. Then there is the fear of wild west scenes, as Mr Van Dijk called it. Mrs Buitenweg pointed out the fear of a sliding scale. We don't see them. Again, the terms come in black and white and a general measure of governance. So that can't be blackmailed, as I just said. Mr Van Oosten also wanted to know whether the level of security of a private security team is comparable to that of a VPD if such a team is composed of fewer people. The size of a VPD is different from that of a private security team. A VPD must be at least 11 strong, regardless of the size of the ship or other additional circumstances. That also makes it so difficult in the spot market. A private security team first makes a risk assessment to see what it takes. Then, for example, they also take with them other means that VPDs do not use, such as barbed wire and non-lethal defence weapons. In the event of imminent danger, they can draw up the weapons in plain sight. Often, as I mentioned in the examples, that is enough to deter the pirates. Private security guards also have a lot of experience, as the experience in other countries where these teams are active learns, and are usually well trained, because people often come from the Navy. In many cases, they have even more experience than the average Marine deployed at a VPD. A private security company protects on average about 300 to 400 ships a year. DOD only does 40. At the Ministry of Defence, staff rotate frequently, while private security companies use fixed teams. In addition, private security guards have proved themselves well in recent years with their security around Somali waters. With small ships one can provide security with four men. In larger ships or in more complex situations, more people will be needed, but the security companies do not have a hard legal obligation to send at least 11 people, regardless of the circumstances. They simply have the obligation to ensure good security under the conditions that are imposed on them. That makes them much more flexible and therefore often cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u46	This is an important point in the first-term debate. If you say that the sword power lies with the government and therefore sets you very strict criteria for applying violence, then Defence says with its own knowledge and expertise: we cannot do that with fewer than eleven people. And then you indicate: yes, but private security officers have more experience and are better or otherwise able to identify certain risks and are therefore cheaper. That's a weird reasoning, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u47	If I'd used it like that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u48	Either we do something wrong as government and apparently use wrong criteria for applying violence or those private security guards apply lower criteria. It is important to clarify this completely, because the logic is simply not right. The government believes that eleven people are needed, while private parties need fewer with limited guarantees and risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u49	There's nothing I can do about being held on to that elf every time. We've all tried to ask the DOD if they could do it with less. I assume that the Minister will, no doubt on behalf of the Secretary of Defense, explain why that logic is still in place. It's not my logic. If it had been my logic, this bill might not have been necessary. That logic is precisely one of the main reasons why this bill is here today. By the way, you are talking about criteria, but it has nothing to do with those criteria when I talk about the levels of training of private security. Private security guards are not that illogical, they are often much more experienced and they really do this work, because that's why they're on the market. Marines do some other things, as Mrs Belhaj might know, because she is from Rotterdam. Madam President, let's go to the last block that has fallen on me. This was a difficult point raised by Mrs Van Toorenburg in particular, but also by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Ploumen, namely: what happens in the case of piracy within territorial waters? The law applies only outside territorial waters. We have linked to the definition of piracy to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, another UNCLOS Convention, and that convention only speaks of piracy when it happens outside territorial waters. That's why we've incorporated it into our law, as you've seen. Of course, there may also be an attack within territorial waters, but we do not speak of piracy, but of armed robbery, and so the law does not apply. The Minister for Justice and Security will discuss the issue of criminal law, but I can imagine that that would be just self-defense. Authorisation. Questions have also been put by the same Members, but also by Mr Van Dijk and Mr Öztürk. As far as the licences granted by other countries to maritime security officers are concerned, I have already said something in the small-scale debate on the example that Mr Voordewind cited. Suppose a Kenyan company came forward. It is therefore not the case that a Kenyan licence is suddenly valid in the Netherlands. This can only be done if the guarantees provided by Kenyan law, which I do not know, are equivalent to ours. The test for that lies in the law itself. A shipowner may only take on board armed maritime guards if he has the Minister's permission to do so, and the Minister will then check which company supplies those security guards. If that is a Kenyan company, just to stay with the example of Voordewind, then the Minister will soon be inclined to do so, at least I assume; he will be able to confirm this himself in a moment to obtain further information about it. The next step is likely to be to reach the conclusion that that Kenyan licence, or whatever that government document is called, does not guarantee a situation that is equivalent, at least I expect, to the Dutch situation. Subsequently, the shipowner shall not be allowed to take on board those private security guards. A violation of this prohibition is a crime and can lead to criminal prosecution. Finally, on the issue of licensing, Mr Van Dijk also had a question. For what duration are those licences issued? The rules on the period of validity of an authorisation and authorisation will have to be put back at the level of the general administrative measure. Permission is then given by transport. This is not the case in other countries, especially Scandinavian countries, but in our proposal we give this authorization by transport, one time only, not for six months ahead or looking back as in Norway. Mr Van Oosten also asked how permits are dealt with in the case of takeovers or mergers. For this purpose, further rules are laid down at the level of that general measure of governance. We have tried in the letter of amendment, more precisely in Article 12 (6) of the Treaty, and I promised you that I would come back to that in order to make it clear once again that further rules also apply to takeovers or mergers. That's what we've adapted to. Finally, Mr President, for my part. Mr Van der Staaij asked when there was a legal question about transport and, in particular, whether an additional stopover which had not been notified in advance would be contrary to the licence. Since it is also being done on his behalf in his mandate, I hope that the Minister for Justice and Security will be able to shed light on this. I can imagine that the Coast Guard will decide that armed security on a transport is permitted and that the request will describe exactly what that transport is about. If the shipowner then moves in a completely different direction, it is unlikely to be in accordance with the authorisation granted. Whether an extra stopover is included or a rotating cargo that you sometimes see in certain types of business should be considered in our eyes on a case-by-case basis. Further rules could also be laid down in the general measure of governance on this point. The fact that we are talking about this makes it part of the legal history in any case. I therefore believe that it is also urgent that the government responds to this. Mr President, I wanted to leave it at that, but I see that Mr Van Dijk and a few other colleagues still have questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u50	I see him and also Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u51	Let's talk about the permits. Mr Ten Broeke says the following. Licences must be at least equivalent to the level pursued by the Dutch licence. The Minister controls and can lay down policy rules on this matter. In drawing it up, account will also be taken of the need for adequate foreign control of the licence. Can Mr Ten Broeke explain that phrase again? Here again, my question is: does Mr Ten Broeke not think it is right that the Chamber should have a prior understanding of this AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u52	There's an amendment in front of it. We will deal with this later, and it is up to you how you ultimately judge it. It is precisely that supervision that is one of the thresholds we have introduced. If there are countries where there is absolutely no control over how companies operate, that is a reason for us not to give these companies a chance to apply for a licence at all. It must be absolutely guaranteed that the standards we set apply to all the licences granted to private security guards who make use of them. European legislation means that we cannot limit this to Europe or the Netherlands. We might have wanted or could have thought of that. In our first version we have also preluded on it for a while, but then we get into trouble with the law. By doing so and making these strict demands, I think we have given the Minister a good selection mechanism. As far as we are concerned, supervision, including in the country where the company comes from, must be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u53	But then we take the widely used example of Kenya, where we do not have a great deal of insight into how that monitoring would take place at the moment. However, the proposers say that that country must monitor this. I think that raises a lot of questions about foreign supervision. The Minister will have the opportunity to lay down policy rules on this matter. My question was: does Mr Ten Broeke think it is right that the Chamber should be able to discuss this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u54	Yes, of course. The Chamber can talk about anything. That is what the amendment is watching for. I think we will respond positively to that. Mr Van Helvert will speak about this later. But a Kenyan licence is not suddenly valid in the Netherlands. For this, Kenyan law itself and supervision there must be equivalent to the Dutch safeguards. That seems to us to be the threshold we all seek.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u55	Thank you for all the answers in the first term. I had asked a whole series of questions about the position of members of the VPD vis-à-vis private security, particularly the legal position. I was thinking, for example, of how the prosecution acts in the case of acts of violence by members of the VPD. Are the actions of the prosecution the same as those of an act of violence committed by a member of a private security guard? I've asked a lot of questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u56	Yeah, that's right. They will be dealt with in Mr Van Helvert's speech. But in principle, the answer is: yes, there is no legal inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u57	I would also like to look at the division of tasks between Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Van Helvert. I had also asked a question about Article 9, which deals with consulting the captain in coordination with the team leader in the use of force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u58	This is also reflected in Van Helvert's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u59	So that's gonna come back there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u60	Yeah, I'll say it again. Van Helvert will deal shortly with supervision, the relationship of captain-team leader-leader, the use of force, the reporting, liability - that is the point that has just been brought up - prosecution as well, and the amendments tabled. I hope Mr. Van Helvert doesn't disappoint me that I've already made a small advance on the last one. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ten Broeke. Before I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert, I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u62	I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most valid argument, the most important principle and the strongest basis for this law were given to me by the merchant preacher Mrs Perfors. She said in a conversation that we had: "Mr Van Helvert, it's about people. Apart from all economic interests; they are people. Apart from financial considerations; these are people. All sorts of numbers can be added," she said, "but figures don't tell us what people feel when they have a knife on their throats. Numbers don't say anything when our people get a phone call from their husband crying begging his wife to call the ship owner to transfer the ransom. Figures say nothing like sailors' wives, our sailors' wives, waiting at home for the ship to get through the dangerous area." Those people, Chairman, have kept the struggle around this law alive. In this sense, I also recognise the objections raised in this Chamber, because they have also been on the table with us in the group. So I also thank the Chamber for sharing those concerns. In the end, we have to note that our government cannot fully fulfil the duty of care, and that is precisely why we have been looking for a way to let our captains, our sailors and their families know that we consider them to be so important, each of them, that we want them to be protected, even if the government itself cannot do so. I will answer the questions of the Chamber in the following blocks: monitoring; ship owner's captain's team leader's relationship; use and reporting of violence; liability and prosecution; the particular nature of this legislative proposal; the follow-up steps and further involvement of the Chamber; and the appreciation of the amendments. But they will be shorter, Madam President, than you might think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u64	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u65	Yes, shorter than Mr Ten Broeke in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u66	Oh that's a very different frame of reference indeed!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u67	To make that brief clear, I agree with all the words of thanks which Mr Ten Broeke has spoken to everyone who has contributed to this law, but they are no less so. First of all, block 1, supervision, Madam President. Members Van der Staaij and Ploumen called for attention to be paid to monitoring: this must be well-organised and effective. We fully share that view. For example, a maritime security company needs a licence and needs to be certified. Permission from the Minister of Justice and Security is required for any request for the deployment of private security guards. Afterwards, a report is always prepared by both the captain and the team leader of the private security guards. And after every use of force, it's always reported to the state's attorney's office. In that sense, it will work in a similar way to the deployment of F-16 pilots. Mr Van der Staaij asked how clear it is that all reports have actually been made. Madam President, I can answer that the bill provides for a reporting obligation for the captain. Breach of that duty shall be punishable with a maximum detention of six months or a fine of the fourth category. Monitoring should include monitoring tasks on board ships, ship owners and maritime security organisations, such as inspections and access to the administration. In the event of detection of irregularities, further investigation shall be carried out and possible measures shall be taken, depending on the outcome thereof. This should include the imposition of fines or the withdrawal or suspension of the licence. In short, there is provision for adequate prior, but also during and after transport. As far as we are concerned, this fulfils the guarantees requested by the De Wijkerslooth Committee in 2011. Additional...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u68	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u69	In addition, the bill provides for the possibility of requiring licence holders to record images and sound with cameras. Such obligations will be linked as a requirement to the permit necessary to offer or carry out armed maritime security work, which will, of course, increase the possibility of monitoring during and after.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u70	Then we have arrived at the violence and the use of force, Article 9, and I had asked a question about this in the first term, namely what is happening with the coordination between captain and team leader. The team leader is ultimately responsible for the use of violence, but he does so in consultation, in coordination with the captain. Well, we've had a very long discussion here in the Chamber with the captain's association. He said: we do not want that anymore, we do not want that responsibility; if the private security is there, then they are responsible. It's just, there's another link here. Now is the team leader responsible for the stakes, or is the captain still responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u71	I'm at the heading "supervisory," Madam President. I'm about to say it very clearly when I go to the next cup. I'm gonna go into it extensively. Then the uncertainty will also be completely removed. But I would like to ask, Mr President, if I could finish the supervision and then go to the next heading. I'll get back to you in a really big way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u72	Mrs. Belhaj, about supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u73	Yes, Chairman, under the heading "supervisory." I believe that Mr Van Helvert is trying to make it clear to the Chamber that there are enough guarantees that things can't happen that can't just happen, and he pointed out that access to the books can then be made. But my question is: if there is a violent incident and someone is seriously injured, how can you find it in the books? If you want to control as a government, there must be some kind of logic in it so that you can actually control it. But if something happens, how can I control it? Then how am I supposed to supervise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u74	There are several possibilities: in advance, during and after. Moreover, I was still trying to explain this, but I would like to say this now. In advance, you will see what conditions you can apply to the companies that receive a permit. While you might be using video or audio recordings. I have already seen an amendment on this. And after that, there must be a mandatory report from both the captain and the leader of the team. Every time the slightest incident of violence has occurred, even if it is just a warning shot, it is submitted to the prosecution. The D.A. then decides whether there's any reason to investigate or even prosecute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u75	That would mean that every ship is obliged to purchase cameras with which you can really oversee everything. That's the first thing. And if someone doesn't have that footage, then as a government we are not able to supervise and with that he is by definition also punishable at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u76	Suppose the law says you must have a camera on, if we were to accept an amendment to that effect, or if the Chamber would agree, then as far as we are concerned: don't turn on the camera, we will withdraw the license.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u77	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u78	Members Van Oosten, Van der Staaij, Voordewind and Jasper van Dijk have asked questions about camera surveillance, which I was just talking about. Mr Van Oosten asked whether this is common practice and whether there are sufficient technical means available for this. Camera surveillance is not required everywhere within the maritime security sector. In Belgium and Germany, moreover, it is compulsory. The Netherlands could follow this proposal, I said just now, and the technical tools are available. There are several audiovisual means available and the law offers these opportunities. To give you an example: the police have been using bodycams for a long time, but it's just an example. The NS has also recently done tests with different types of bodycams. The member Van der Staaij asked whether all actions of private security guards are recorded with a camera and how that relates to the principle that someone does not have to cooperate with his own conviction. The latter is of course an important principle, but that does not prevent the use of bodycams by the police, for example. The recordings can be used in internal investigations and complaint handling. Another example concerns the use of force by F-16s. Video images are also made of this. These are also made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office. When is that camera supposed to be on? For example, from the moment of imminent danger of piracy to the moment that the threat has been averted or averted. But it will be possible to return to this in a general measure of governance. I have also seen a very nice amendment on the extent to which the Chamber has an influence on and has access to this general measure of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u79	I would suggest that you finish this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u80	I'd love to. That is also the starting point of the amendment tabled by Mr Voordewind in respect of item No. 12. That amendment aims to anchor camera surveillance in the law. We have also gone into parliamentary history for a while, because Mr Voordewind has long advocated camera surveillance of merchant ships. He also referred to this during a general consultation on 23 June 2016, a little over two years ago. In that respect Mr Voordewind has a track record. We are, as I said, in anticipation of heading No 7, in favour of his proposal and can therefore wholeheartedly support that amendment. If your Chamber accepts this amendment, the use of cameras and microphones is therefore required by law for armed private guards. The initiators also consider camera surveillance very desirable, as I said to Mr Jasper van Dijk, who also asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u81	Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u82	Two more sentences on this piece. Mr Ploumen and Mr Öztürk expressed their fear of beunhazen or cowboys carrying weapons on ships. We hope to reassure them with the strict conditions and checks-and-balances in the bill. They ensure a safe, controlled and lawful use of force by private security guards to protect the merchant navy. In fact, the current lack of regulation is leading to the danger of Rambos at sea, which we have no influence on. It is precisely in order to put an end to this undesirable situation that the initiators made the present legislative proposal. Later in the debate, I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled by Mr Öztürk on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u83	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u84	Yeah, with the first cup, "supervisory," I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u85	The police's bodycams are used as an example, but in these situations, is it not precisely about being able to visualize the actions of others in order to be of service in the prosecution and gathering of evidence, whereas in fact it is more about portraying the role of the security guards?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u86	Yeah, absolutely. Let me give you an example of what you could do about audiovisual resources. I can also imagine your cameras hanging on a bridge or on bows or whatever else they are. That seems to me to be a general measure of governance. I also think it is a good thing to ask the Minister how he sees this and whether he can say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u87	Clear. The question to the proposers themselves is how they see the usual limitations that often exist when using cameras. Now let's get rid of it all the way and say that everything those security guards do there needs to be recorded on camera?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u88	I like to say that the camera isn't the only way to check what happened. Perhaps even more important is the report whose delivery is mandatory for both the captain and the leader of the team. In the case of the least violent incident, I just mentioned the warning shot or a shot in the bow, which is being submitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Actually, this is equivalent to F-16 pilots, who also have to do this if they have used a means of violence anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u89	Do I understand correctly that the camera surveillance supported by the proposers is intended only for the private security guards or is the support just expressed by the proposer equally valid for members of the VPD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u90	We have created the Private Security Initiative Act. We're not about the equipment of our defense. That is not, in principle, the case. Of course, that's for a discussion with the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u91	Okay, I understand that answer, but my wish would be that the legal position of the private security guard would be equal to the legal position of a member of the VPD; that was what my questions saw as well. If demands are now being made, such as having a bodycam or cameras on the ship, which do apply to the members of private security teams but not to members of the VPD, I ask the petitioner how he sees that equality of that position between those two greats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u92	I say again that a camera is really not the most important and only means of proof. The most important thing will be the reports of the captain and the team leader. I'll come back to this later, too, because I wanted to start heading two, the relationship between...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u93	I thought you were done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u94	No, heading two is the relationship between team leader and ship owner. That's what I wanted to get started on, and then I'm gonna come back to these things in great detail. So perhaps we can wait for that to happen, because I want to answer the question in detail and I think I will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u95	However, I would like to mention the heading "supervisory'. A comparison is made with the same rules for an F-16 pilot, but I think the essence of what we are doing today is precisely that an F-16 pilot is a natural servant or a government official and therefore has certain powers. If he's going through certain situations, he has to report them. Certain laws apply to that. But Mr Van der Staaij rightly pointed out that a private security guard is of course something else. Indeed, it cannot in principle be forced to cooperate in its own condemnation. That crucial difference is important. I hope that Mr Van Helvert will be able to say something about this. And the cameras are essential, because if you only have to turn them on when there is an incident, it is difficult to check if there has been an incident and the camera has not been turned on. So if you're saying that this is a good way for the government to still supervise, why aren't those cameras on all the ships 24 hours a day?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u96	The interruptions must be shorter and the answer must be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u97	It is possible, but I think we have hired a cabinet to do this really well. We have also seen an amendment on how the Chamber could be involved in the general measure of governance. That seems to me to be the time to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u99	I come to the relationship between captain, team leader and ship owner. Mr Markuszower asked how other countries have regulated the legal position of the private security guard on merchant ships, in particular vis-à-vis the VPDs. Firstly, all the Member States of the European Union provide for the possibility of armed private security, but the Netherlands alone do not yet. However, there are differences between countries. For example, the Danish Government is very much opposed to the use of VPDs for the security of the merchant navy, because the Danish Government does not consider this to be an efficient use of scarce military resources. Italy has been allowing private security on Italian merchant ships since 2012, but only if the delivery of a VPD is not possible. As a general rule, therefore, legislation in European countries is in line with the guidelines of the International Maritime Organization, the IMO. There appears to be no major differences in the content of legislation, but there are differences in nuance, partly due to differences in legal traditions. For example, the United Kingdom has no specific legislation. The stakes, which are similar in substance to those in other countries, are regulated by means of a guide. Our legislative proposal is also in line with the IMO guidelines. It explicitly regulates the powers of the team chief and maritime security officers, thereby slightly different from the legislation in other countries, where those powers are not expressly regulated. Members Van Oosten, Voordewind and Jasper van Dijk asked about the relationship between the team leader of the private guards and the captain of the ship. Who has the last word on the use of force and what about the captain's criminal liability? And to what extent is there a grey area? It is good that these Members have addressed this issue. I would also like to thank them for that, because it gives us the opportunity to clarify matters. The captain shall be responsible for all that happens aboard the ship under his or her authority. On the basis of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, the captain has an overriding authority. The master may use this authority in special circumstances, including in the direction of the private security forces, if he or she considers that they are using excessive force. That is what international practice and regulation are like, and this legislative proposal does nothing about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u100	There's been an interruption. Were you done with this cup?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u101	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u102	Then I would suggest that you finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u103	Thank you, Madam President, because this is an important point that many Members have asked for. The shipowner and the master shall be responsible for the best management practices, the BMPs, of the IMO. Where a master engages the assistance of armed private security guards, he shall be responsible for the application of all reasonably applicable active and passive protective measures prior to and during navigation. One can think of changing course, fern harder, laser beams, water cannons, barbed wire and what more are they. The captain shall be responsible for the navigation and operation of the ship at all times. The responsibility for using violence lies with the team leader and maritime security officers. It's not like the captain's gonna order this. That's what the team leader does. Only after it has been established in consultation with the captain that passive and active anti-piracy measures have not led to averting the risk of piracy, will you proceed. Mr Voordewind expressed fear of a grey space, as he called it, between the non-lethal protection measures, for which the captain is responsible, and the use of force, for which the team leader is responsible. This fear is not necessary as far as we are concerned. Let me explain. The starting point is that only when the BMPs, such as laser beams, water cannons and barbed wire, do not provide a solace to avert the threat, can violence be waged, starting with warning shots. That is precisely why coordination between team leader and captain is important. This has to do with the requirement of subsidiarity. However, there may be a threat that is so acute that the consultation between the team leader and the captain or its outcome cannot be reasonably awaited. That is what several Members have said. Mr Van Oosten specifically pointed to such a situation, which is so beautifully referred to by our southern neighbours as 'extreme urgency'. That's why I'm doing this part, so you can hear the soft g in it. We've arranged this in Article 9 (7) of the bill. In such a case, consensus between team leader and captain is neither possible nor necessary. There may even be situations where the task of the team leader cannot be awaited by individual private security guards. That is stated in Article 9 (6). After the use of force by one or more private security guards, I would like to say again that both the captain and the team leader are reporting. The captain also reports to the State's Attorney's Office. Whether there is reason for a criminal investigation afterwards is assessed by the D.A. I will discuss the liability of the captain and the shipowner later in my speech. We would point out to the members that the Dutch Association of Captains for the Merchant Shipping has been involved in the drafting of the bill. The master's duties and responsibilities in the event of violence against pirates are clearly described, according to the master's association. According to the association, the bill also prevents the captain from having to cooperate with uncertified and uncontrolled armed private guards, which is precisely what we do not want. Hence the fact that the captain's association supports our bill and has made an appeal to the Chamber to do the same, but that aside. I'm almost done with this cup, Mr. Chairman. Mr Voordewind also referred to Article 16. On that basis, the master may be fined administratively. That's right, but only in the event of an infringement of Article 6 (2). The master shall ensure that permission has been obtained for private security, each time. Article 11 (1) and (2) deals with reporting obligations. This administrative fine is therefore independent of any use of force. So much for heading two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u104	Mr Van Helvert made me think hard, and that is always a good thing, because he put a lot of emphasis on the fact that the Danes do not want VPDs because it is not an efficient use of Defence resources. I saw his co-carrying nod. Is that how you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u105	I'm not a spokesperson for the defence department and I don't know what the defense budget is, so I can't say exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u106	So it may be that this has something to do with it and that this is some sort of disguised austerity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u107	That is not the purpose of this bill. I wanted to point out that there are other countries that say: let the whole VPD go, we only do it with private security. That was actually the thrust of my comment. We should discuss the defence budget at another meeting. Then I'll move on to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u108	Very briefly, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u109	Yes, very briefly about Article 9. I'm just trying to get a little more clarity on paragraph 7. It is about consulting the captain by the team leader if violence is used. That is prescribed in that article, but I understand the author in such a way that the captain is not responsible for that effort, but ultimately always the team leader. So the captain can't be fined, either?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u110	Whether someone can be fined is always up to the D.A.'s office. I can't say that. The team leader is responsible for the use of violence. What we do see in the UN Convention is that the captain always has an overriding authority when he or she feels that disproportionate or incorrect violence is being applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u111	Please continue. Oh, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u112	So it can't be that the captain is convicted or can get a fine at the time of the use of force? That was the fear of the captain's association. The team leader will always be responsible for that. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u113	The team leader is responsible for the use of violence. I'm not from the D.A.'s office, so I find it hard to say here, as it were, as a kind of judge, that it is being fined and not. I'll tell you how the law writes it, and that's that the team leader is responsible for using violence. But we do not diminish the international treaties, such as the UN Convention, which does give the captain the overriding authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u114	But for the Acts and the history of the law, it is perhaps right that we should speak out and Mr Van Helvert, as initiator of the bill, say that the starting point of the bill is not that the captain should be able to be consulted on the use and use of force, if deemed necessary. The starting point is that the team leader is called upon to do so because he is hired for that purpose, to put it bluntly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u115	Yeah, I think that's a very correct interpretation. That is why I said very clearly that the team leader is responsible for using or not using violence. So the captain doesn't give orders in the sense of: hey, team leader, use force. That's what the team leader's really about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u116	That is perfectly clear to me. Then it remains that the captain has the responsibility for the well and woe. He has to make sure that the ship itself remains intact. He shall also verify compliance with the licence, whether the holding has a licence and whether the holding has exercised the responsibilities it has to exercise, to the extent that the master can oversee it. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u117	I don't see an imperfection in that paraphrasing. I do need to say it as I said it and as the authors like to say it. The captain is responsible for everything that happens on board the ship under his or her authority, but the team leader is responsible for the use of force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u118	I didn't agree to any interruptions with you in advance, assuming you're making a little bit of a trade-off. But it cannot be that after each sentence a question is asked, because a lot of questions have been asked in the first period. Mr Van Helvert is in the process of answering this question. He should get that chance, too. So this is gonna be the last one, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u119	Mr President, for the last time. I would like to touch on Rule 9 (6) and (7). If you say the team leader can't engage in violence until he's had a meeting with the captain, you could have discussions. Then it also says "unless this consultation or its outcome cannot reasonably be awaited'. That sounds quite like there could be problems, because then a team leader has to weigh in to consult with the captain or not. At the same time, we have said that the captain should always be consulted. Then, of course, something happens just then. Then you can say: then it is the team leader. But in fact, it says here that the captain is really ultimately responsible. So paragraphs 6 and 7 do lead to a little confusion. I don't know if you can see that yourself. This can lead to unpleasant situations between a captain and a team leader if things go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u120	Of course. By the way, it's no different with VPDs. Let me put that in front of you. So it's no different with a VPD than with private security. A captain is always responsible for everything that happens on the ship. The team leader is responsible for whether or not to use violence and good consultation is of course very important. That is why we have established precisely that there can also be specific situations that cannot be discussed between captain and team leader, because the situation is so acute, and even that one private security guard cannot wait until his team captain orders him to use force. That can happen too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u122	Therefore, recording in a report by both the master and the team leader is of great importance, so that the D.A. can determine whether the conditions are met. Use of force and reporting; this is heading 3. Let me go into more detail about the use of violence, as I have just argued: the ultimatum remedium. For a reason, I mentioned the non-lethal self-protection measures, the best management practices, those laser beams, water guns, etc. These measures lead to an increased level of protection and prove effective in practice against pirates. The practice of the EU Operation Atalanta, for example, shows that in over 80% of the attempted hijacking that is directly linked to the application of those BMPs. Moreover, there is a strong preventive effect on private security workers who are visibly armed. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Buitenweg. She wondered how the risks of violence would be assessed when a smaller team of security guards with less backup faced with pirates. Mr Ten Broeke pointed out the wide experience of private security, their proven record and the flexible concept of private security teams. If the risks are higher, more security guards are expected to be deployed, but let me deal with the fairly common team of four. Such a team can guarantee the full coverage of the ship from the ship's bridge. The biggest difference with the VPD's approach is that a VPD can split up and secure all sides of the ship separately with more than one person; front and back and both sides. This could benefit from a very well coordinated and complex attack by pirates, where a merchant ship would be simultaneously attacked from different sides by different pirate boats. However, such complex attacks do not occur in current practice. Private security officers have proven in practice to be able to act effectively in smaller teams against pirate attacks without compromising security. Should the private security team have to take action, it must meet the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity. Thought can be given to first warning shots in the air, then shots in front of the bow and then shots aimed at removing the engine of the pirate boat. In this context, it may be appropriate to note that it is in particular the private security teams that use non-lethal means, such as noise, light signals and barbed wire security, in their strategy and instruction in violence. That is the primary objective. In particular, Mr Markuszower asked questions about this. He specifically mentioned the distance from the ship, where the pirates should not get any closer than, for example, half a mile or about half a kilometer. Let me say first of all that this bill does not in itself determine the violence instruction for private maritime security personnel. We don't determine it here, but we'll deal with it later by general measure of governance. As I said, we have also seen an amendment on how, if it allows, the Chamber can be involved in that general measure of governance. It will therefore set out the circumstances under which the level of use of violence will be permitted. An important and internationally proven source of instruction are therefore the best management practices of the ILO, which also guides the actions of the VPDs. I cannot give an exact distance to the merchant ship here, as Mr Markuszower has advocated. I'm also not an expert on precision shooting from the deck of the ship on the high seas, swelling. A distance from a merchant ship of more than one kilometre seems to me very far to turn off the engine of a fast approaching pirate boat, but having said that, we also intend that these pirates should not come on board. In that sense, I would like to continue the discussion between the Chamber and the Government on the general measure of governance. The starting point is that as the threat of pirates increases, the security forces may gradually use increasing violence. In the direction of Mr Markuszower, I say that this should not be aimed at causing fatal injury. This will also be the case in the law, in Article 9 (3). The same standard applies to military personnel participating in a VPD. So that doesn't differ with the people of our army. The situation outlined by Mr Markuszower, namely that a warning shot unintentionally leads to a deadly victim, could indeed arise. In that case, there is no direct lethal shot. The private security guard concerned may, in such a situation, call for storms. That is always possible in criminal law. The decision whether or not to prosecute, based on the report of both the captain and the team leader, lies with the Public Prosecutor's Office, as is the case in our army. I will discuss the subject of prosecution later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u123	When later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u124	Just a few more lines. The cups are getting shorter and shorter, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u125	You've been saying that for an hour. I'd like to finish this, Mr. Markuszower, and then you'll have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u126	The member Van der Staaij asked what it would be like if hired personnel on a ship themselves were to act in a certain way. In that case, are security guards not allowed to take any action because they are strictly targeting non-going persons? When I heard the suggestion, I wondered if the member Van der Staaij would like to use private security to crush mutiny. Such uprisings have not occurred on Dutch ships for a while, not since The Seven Provinces in 1933, if I do have them. But I understand that it is up to Mr Van der Staaij to do the possibility that pirates will receive help from one or more crew members on board the Dutch merchant ship. Hopefully this suggestion doesn't bring pirates to mind. At least it's resourceful. We can't rule out such a situation, although unlikely. In the past, well-organised criminal organisations from Somalia were active in piracy. I hope, however, that I will not disappoint Mr Van der Staaij when I say that this proposal is primarily concerned, but only, with the use of maritime guards against piracy. The powers of maritime security officers to use force or handcuffs for that purpose and not to act against persons on board. That is not the purpose of this law. The master shall have his own resources, his own powers. In the extreme case, in order to maintain safety on board the ship, he can put his personnel in cuffs and take him into custody. In doing so, however, he cannot call on the private security guards. It is if it isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u127	Is this now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u128	Now I go to liability and prosecution, the next cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u129	I have a question about not being focused on fatal injury. Is the petitioner aware of how other countries have arranged this? You just mentioned a country like Denmark, or England. Do they also have such a limitation of not being directed at deadly injuries? Can the petitioner imagine a situation in which it concerns the life of the security guard or the life of a member of a VPD and that of a pirate or of the crew, in which the security guard or member of the VPD has to choose his own life or the protection of those present on that ship, at the expense of the pirate's life? So you'd have to be able to target, even with fatal injury. What is the member of the VPD or that private security guard supposed to do if he's had to shoot anyway, because there was no other way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u130	I understand the question. Mr Markuszower also said that this was important. I thought I'd already answered that. I'll try to do it a little more clearly. I'm sorry I wasn't clear enough. There's a difference between shooting to kill someone and shooting out of defense with the result that someone dies. Those are two clearly different things. Those differences also apply when you're in the army. Also, a member of a VPD can't shoot with the aim of killing someone. The goal may be to defend yourself, with the result that someone dies from it. But then it wasn't the goal to kill someone; the goal was self-defense. You can appeal to that at that time. The D.A. will then determine whether the conditions are met on the basis of the report of the master and the team leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u131	I understand that, but that's a very different description from the one that's being used right now. Murder, of course, can never be justified, so the goal must always be: legitimate defense, proportionate. We agree on that. Then why don't you use that text in the bill? Now it says that you should never shoot at deadly injuries. Sometimes in a war situation, you have to shoot with intent. Also in other war situations, such as a mission in Afghanistan, you sometimes have to target with the intention to kill, not to kill, but to defend. So with the way you just put it, I totally agree, but in the law it's really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u132	It does say otherwise in words. I think we mean exactly the same thing, but we also rely on how the IMO describes it in the best management practices. That is what we are basing ourselves on, and we did not want to create a light between them, but I have the feeling that we mean exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u133	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u134	Then I move on to the subject of liability and prosecution. Mr Van der Staaij has rightly pointed out that both the master and the shipowner and the maritime security company can be fined if there is a breach of the rules. They can also be prosecuted. The question then is how to balance who can be held liable or prosecuted. The member Voordewind asked about the captain's position. In addition, Jasper van Dijk asked whether the shipowners would remain completely out of play in the event of a violent incident. Let me begin with the measures that the Minister can take. The Minister may impose a fine on the maritime security company, the captain and the team leader in the event of a breach of rules and regulations, such as a fine in the Netherlands or at least a penalty in the event of a breach of rules. In the final case, the licence may be revoked; I refer to Article 13. These administrative measures are intended for relatively simple infringements. More serious is a violation of the prohibition to offer or carry out armed maritime security work without authorisation or permission of the Minister. That's a criminal offence. Then there is an offence under the Economic Crimes Act and such an offence is threatened with a maximum detention period of six months. This ban also applies to shipowners, as I say to Mr Jasper van Dijk. Shipowners will also have to comply with the necessary self-protection measures. This is a condition for obtaining permission for the deployment of private security forces at all, but also a condition for our own VPDs. Extra-proportional violence - even worse - goes even further. Then the administrative fine is no longer sufficient. That is why there is always the possibility of criminal prosecution. We cannot completely rule out situations where the master or the shipowner is jointly held responsible for acts of violence. The bill doesn't regulate immunity for anyone. The legislative proposal aims to provide a clear framework for judicial review of the actions of a maritime security team in a concrete case. As far as we are concerned, however, it would be advisable for the College of Attorneys General to specify by means of a designation whether and in what way the captain can be charged with the use of force by the team leader on a criminal basis or not. Mr Van Toorenburg pointed to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and on that basis the Netherlands would be obliged to carry out effective investigations when a member of a VPD would kill someone. That obligation would not apply to private security because they are not state bodies. The initiators share this view. In particular, Mr Van Toorenburg mentioned the case of Al-Skeini against the United Kingdom. A similar case was Jaloud against the Netherlands. In both cases, the violence committed by British and Dutch soldiers respectively in Iraq against Iraqi civilians was incidental. The exercise of public authority by state bodies brought action within the scope of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, even though the use of violence took place outside the territory of the United Kingdom and the Netherlands respectively. In exercising public authority by public bodies, the positive obligations of the ECHR shall apply. These include the duty to initiate an investigation and, where possible, bring the case to justice. According to the ECHR, such an investigation must be effective, independent and without delay. And it must actually be aimed at finding the responsible person or persons. Private security guards operating outside the territorial waters of the Netherlands are different. Those aren't state organs. It is also our analysis that, on the basis of the ECHR case-law, the Netherlands does not have an obligation to conduct an effective investigation when private security officers would, unexpectedly, kill someone on board the ship. Although the ECHR is not obliged to do so, this legislative proposal provides for sufficient safeguards and effective research, which the member Van Toorenburg is right to make hard work for. We fully agree with that. The law obliges the captain and the team leader to make such reporting after violence after each deployment of private security guards. This report is addressed to the Minister of Justice and Security and it is then up to the D.A. to conduct the investigation. The master is obliged to report any use of force, from the use of handcuffs, to the Public Prosecutor's Office without delay. That's what Article 11 (3) says. The Public Prosecutor's Office may then examine whether all conditions are met and determine whether prosecution is being carried out. If violence is not proportionate and otherwise it does not meet the strict requirements of this bill, and in particular the instruction of violence to be determined by general administrative action, the person concerned may be prosecuted. On this point, member Markuszower asked whether the Public Prosecutor's Office would act differently with private security guards than with VPDs. As far as the initiators are concerned, this is not in principle the case. The powers do not differ. The violence instruction for private security guards has yet to be established at AMvB. We therefore have an influence on this by means of a pending procedure. It is expected to be similar to that of the VPDs. But the minister is the one who has to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u135	Yes, Mr Van Helvert, he must also speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u136	Yes, Madam President. In addition, we hope and expect, as initiators, that the College of Attorneys General will draw up, after the entry into force of this law, an indication setting out further rules for criminal prosecution in the use of violence. This can be done by looking at existing indications on the criminal prosecution of Dutch military personnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u137	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'd like you to finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u138	In doing so, Mr Markuszower considers that private security officers should not be placed in custody if the prosecution investigates an incident of violence committed by a private security guard. This is specifically about the powers of the prosecution laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure. This proposal does not change the Code of Criminal Procedure. Let's say there's serious criminal offences and a risk of a suspect walking away. Of course, you can't rule out a situation like that. That is why we do not want to exclude the possibility of pre-trial detention. And neither can we, Madam President, because we are not talking about that law here. There is no doubt that the Minister can also comment on this. Member Van Toorenburg drew attention to the situation in which maritime security guards capture pirates. What happens then? That is, first of all, a situation that we want to avoid as much as possible. Unlike international anti-piracy missions, the purpose of maritime guards is not to collect or apply pirates; it is mainly their job to prevent pirates from approaching or entering the ship. Should this particular circumstance occur, although it is not the primary purpose, the pirates fall under the jurisdiction of the Netherlands as flag State. The D.A. can then prosecute. And the captain is authorized to arrest and lock up the pirates. He or she will have to contact the State's Attorney's Office immediately. And if persecution is appropriate and possible, then the pirate will have to be transferred to the Netherlands. If necessary, units of the Royal Navy, if they are in the vicinity, could help. What can also be attempted is transfer of the pirate to a coastal state. Countries like Kenya and Seychelles continue pirates in the region of Somalia. Piracy is, after all, an international crime subject to universal jurisdiction. And finally, the possibility of releasing the pirate when the threat has left is still there. The member Van Toorenburg postulated the thesis that captured pirates should always be transferred to the International Criminal Court. As far as we are concerned, that statement is not correct. There is a negligible chance that there will be a role for an international criminal court. This means genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and the crime of aggression. Piracy is not under the jurisdiction of that criminal court. Moreover, jurisdiction is only complementary to States Parties to the Statute of the Criminal Court. Only in the event that the Netherlands itself is not willing or is able to prosecute, the Criminal Court would be dealt with. It is also not possible to hand over a suspect to the Criminal Court without the criminal court itself having brought charges. The trial of pirates takes place mainly in the region itself by individual countries. There are no special international tribunals against piracy. The Netherlands has argued for this in the past, but there was no support for it. That was the end of this block, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u139	Mr Van Helvert gave a rather detailed account of how possible prosecution could take place. This brings me to a repetition of the question that I have just asked in the direction of Van Helvert in order to keep that clear. That is that the initiators do not want the captain to be called upon or even prosecuted for the use of violence, but that responsibility lies primarily with the team leader, i.e. the team leader specifically hired to ensure the security and protection of the ship and thus possibly also in a situation where violence must be used. Isn't this how I understood that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u140	I think the paraphrasing is right that the team leader is responsible for using violence or not. In addition, we cannot, of course, plead for immunity for everyone on such a ship, because we are not changing criminal law here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u141	Then I'll finish with that, Mr. Chairman. I understand. We don't do that here either. In the end, we are not talking about what the D.A. wants to do or what the judge decides. We can all agree that the starting point is not that the captain is called upon to do so, because responsibility lies primarily with the team leader. I think it is important that we, as legislators, make that statement in this way, because hopefully it will be given some value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u142	Madam President, I really think I have said a number of times that the team leader is responsible for the use of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u143	Because the initiators say so clearly that it is mainly the intention to disable the boats and make sure that the engine does not work anymore, I do have a question. In the end, we have the Code of Criminal Law, which clearly states that if you put someone in a helpless state, you have a duty to see to it. Can I understand it so that it is the intention that the boats can no longer sail, but at the same time it is also the intention not to let people float helplessly at sea? Because then they'll die and you'll do exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u144	I can imagine that question. I have to come back to that in the second instance, because I do not have one-two-three the exact answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u145	You still have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u146	Moreover, I can say that this is never the starting point in principle, but I shall come back to the precise, correct answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u147	I would like to make an appointment with you on the remaining issues, because if you take the same time and space for that, I am afraid that we... you have now used more speaking time than Mr Ten Broeke and you promised otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u148	Excuse me, Madam President. I would have said that Limburgers speak somewhat slower in principle. I had a total of 27 pages and I'm at page 24, so the end really comes in sight. I would like to say that a lot of questions have also been asked at first and I have the obligation and also feel to give those answers. You allow the interruptions, but I'm glad you've done so well. Extending armed private security to other sectors; that's the next block. Last but not least, I would like to address the question of whether this bill paves the way for armed private security in other sectors. That is because Mr Baudet was so enthusiastic about our bill that he offered to think with us about such an extension, for example to trains and aircraft. First of all, of course, we would like to thank Mr Baudet for his support and compliments for the legislative proposal. As far as we are concerned, this is a special case for Mr Baudet, and I would like to express my opinion in Latin as a lex speciale, a special law because of the special circumstances in which maritime security officers have to do their job. It concerns action outside the territory of the Netherlands and outside the territorial waters of other States. It concerns self-protection against violent pirates in an area where no police or other law enforcement body is present. It is also crucial that the public authorities cannot adequately fulfil their duty of care. These circumstances only justify an exception as far as we are concerned. It is therefore not our intention to set a precedent with this proposal for extending the armament of private security in other sectors. Mr President, I come to the next steps and I am almost at the end of my speech. The purpose of this proposal is to establish a legal framework for the security of Dutch merchant ships. If both Chambers accept this, there is still a great deal of work to be done in the implementation and development of further regulations, such as the violence instruction and the consent procedure. This will be done by general measure of governance. Several members, in particular Mr Buitenweg, Mr Belhaj, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Voordewind and Mr Öztürk, pointed out that such an AMvB was a responsibility of the government, in this case the Minister of Justice and Security. That's what they said at first. The Chamber is not really about it anymore. Hence their very understandable pleas for a pending procedure to ensure formal involvement of the Second and First Chambers. Mr Öztürk and Mr Voordewind have tabled amendments to this effect. The amendment in part No. Paragraph 10 Öztürk refers to the violence instruction. The amendment in part No. Paragraph 14 of Mr Voordewind refers to the authorisation procedure. His amendment on the use of cameras and microphones in part No. 12 also provides for a front suspension clause. As initiators, we can wholeheartedly support these amendments. It shows the great commitment, which I am really pleased with, which shows the proposers but also the other members in the security of Dutch merchant ships. The member Öztürk asked us, the initiators, whether or not we intended to send the AMvB to the Chamber in concept. That is not up to the initiators; that responsibility really lies with the government. Mr Öztürk had very good private reasons for leaving the sitting earlier tonight, but if he hears this on the train, I can assure him that we would like to accept his amendment in this way, because we really think it makes the law even better. That leaves me with Mr Voordewind's amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u149	Did you just say something about accepting an amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u150	It was the amendment tabled by Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u151	Does anyone object to accepting the amendment to item No. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u152	I wonder if this applies, Mr President. Mr Van Helvert is very pleased with it, and that is a credit to him, but it is about the Minister. He will have to tell us later what his opinion is on the amendment. Let me take a look at Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u153	I think it is also up to the proposers to give an opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u154	That's right. It's an initiative law, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u155	We think it is a nice amendment. But of course the Chamber is free to ask for advice from an advisor, and that is the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u156	The House is also free to say: we want to vote on the amendment. But if the initiator says he wants to accept the amendment and no one objects...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u157	It is only after the Minister's reaction that we can assess whether we accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u158	That's good, too. Mr. Van Helvert, I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u159	I was in the last amendment to be dealt with, that of Mr Voordewind in part No. 15. This includes an evaluation clause which will evaluate the law three years after its entry into force. A period of five years is common, but given the special nature and special involvement of the Chamber on this subject, we fully understand this wish. That is why we can wholeheartedly support this amendment. Mr President, that concludes my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u160	Thank you. I don't believe it, but you're really done? Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks also immediately to the initiators, who have prepared a bill which is important to the merchant navy, which allows protection against piracy on merchant ships operating in the spot market, in situations where such protection is not otherwise available. An important step has been taken, especially when we look at the very long history. The previous cabinet had the ambition, as set out in the December 2015 position, to come forward with a legislative proposal, but that died in June 2016. There was no majority for that. Fortunately, however, Members of Parliament, Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Knops, said at the time: we are coming up with an initiative proposal. In the meantime, Mr Van Helvert has taken over Mr Knops' baton and we still see Mr Ten Broeke on the bridge of this legislative initiative. In view of the fact that there has already been a very intense and interesting discussion, I will not do my full text but confine myself to a few key points and then go directly to the various questions and a few amendments. In any case, I would like to say a few words about the adaptation of the provision on certification in the letter of amendment. I am very pleased with that, because it allows us to exercise greater public control over certification. More control, by the government now determining which standards and rules form the basis for certification and accreditation. It also allows for the rules to be included in the certification and accreditation, to be established by or under the law, and this gives more room for manoeuvre in the drafting of the legislative proposal, in particular with regard to the organisation of a good system of monitoring compliance. The bill contains several delegation provisions. Should this law be passed in both chambers, there is still a way to work out and implement the law in further arrangements. All kinds of questions have been asked about that. I will deal with a number of points in this respect: instruction of violence, consent procedure, authorisation, what it will cost and how these costs will be covered. Of course, officials are not sitting still in the Ministry and, in consultation with the other departments, in particular the Defence Department, they are already making progress on the ground. There's gonna be an AMvB. That would be the idea. I am already talking to the Coast Guard about how the criteria set out in the law can be worked out in such a way that Coast Guard officials also have a workable assessment and assessment framework. It is clear that these must be reasonable digital criteria, to name them so, so that a decision can be motivated properly. Anyway, how all this is going to go, I refer to Article 4 (2) which is nautical miles and the percentage of additional costs, which is also 'work in progress'. I come directly to some of the questions asked. Tonight the question was asked whether applications were made for a longer stay of VPDs on merchant ships on the spot market. I can confirm what Mr Ten Broeke has already said: no applications have been made for this. Then I shall begin with the further answers to the questions put by Mrs Ploumen to the government on the need to allow private security guards and on the question of her and Mr Öztürk on the recognition of licences issued by the authorities of other countries. The De Wijkerslooth Committee, as is well known, advised after the Ministry of Defence had ruled that in all cases where such protection is requested by shipowners, protection by the use of private security is not possible. That committee considered that the State's monopoly on violence means that the government determines who is competent to use force under what conditions and circumstances. I think that Mrs Van Toorenburg has put it nicely in the first term. That's exactly what this bill says. On the need for this bill and the use of private security, the initiators have just said the necessary things, also backed up by figures and facts. With regard to the recognition of licences issued in other countries, I should also like to refer to the replies of Mr Ten Broeke, the letter of amendment and the explanatory memorandum. I support that note. It is not the case that the Netherlands should simply recognise permits issued abroad. On this point, moreover, the legislative text and the explanatory memorandum have been strengthened. It is now more explicitly regulated that it is for the Minister to assess whether a foreign licence offers an equivalent level of assurance as the purpose of issuing a Dutch licence. The legislative text also provides that the Minister may lay down policy rules for the assessment to be made, which is made under his responsibility by the licence holder. Mr Van Oosten has asked what is the state of play with the instruction of violence, what will be regulated here about the use of violence and what is the position of the captain. I have to say that other members of the Chamber have also raised some questions, or should I say: noteworthy questions about the position of the captain. The situation is as follows. I can tell you that the officials are already preparing the violence instruction and that they have had discussions on this with the Ministry of Defence and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The sources used in the preparation of this violence instruction are the violence instruction applicable to the members of a Vessel Protection Detachment, a VPD, as well as the violence instruction applicable to police officers. Violence instructions have also been looked at in other countries' regulations. There is no internationally recognised violence instruction, but international rules will be taken into account. Examples include the United Nations Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms and the Montreux document co-signed by the Minister of Defence in 2012. At least that applies to members of the VPDs. The violence instruction will include rules on a time to be marked when the master finds that all the measures at his disposal from the best management practices, the BMP, recommended by the International Maritime Organization, have been exhausted and that armed protection should be deployed against the imminent robbery of pirates. Then the role of the captain. The security guards themselves are responsible for their operational actions. It is not the captain who steers the action of the team in a situation of imminent danger; that is the task of the team chief. However, as laid down in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the master retains an overriding authority. For example, the captain will be able to make use of this in the special circumstance that the team is considered to be using disproportionate force. Then I come to Mr Öztürk's amendment to refer to the Chamber the general measure of governance in which the violence instruction is established by means of a suspension procedure. That amendment answers, may I accept, the questions raised by Mr Van Dijk of the SP, among others, on the conditions of violence and the type of use of weapons. I would advise the House to accept the amendment, which looks at the inclusion of the provision. But you could have inferred from what I said at the beginning that I was going to give that advice. The amendment enables the two Chambers to achieve a supported and desired result at a later date in consultation with the two Chambers. Mr Van Dijk has asked whether regulations can be attached to the use of helmet cameras. Mr Voordewind has also asked questions about this. He has asked whether it is possible to strengthen camera surveillance by including in the law that private security organisations are obliged to use helmet cameras. Mr Voordewind has also tabled an amendment on this subject. I would advise the House to accept Mr Voordewind's amendment. It really contains a good addition to the bill. I find it extremely important to make images and sound recordings during a threatening situation in order to be able to reconstruct exactly what has happened afterwards and how powers have been used. Mr Markuszower of the PVV has asked whether, in the event of a report from a captain to the Public Prosecutor about the use of acts of violence by a VPD, the Public Prosecutor will judge differently than if they were applied by a private security team. I can reassure Mr Markuszower on this point. Well, I hope so, of course. The assessment by the Public Prosecutor of the behaviour of the members of a Vessel Protection Detachment is expected to be no different from the assessment of the behaviour of the members of a private maritime security organisation. This has to do with the fact that the powers conferred on maritime guards by the legislative proposal do not deviate from the powers of the members of such a VPD. In the note on the report, the initiators themselves pointed this out. So there is an equal starting point for answering the question by the Public Prosecutor or the security guards, whether or not they are military, to the powers they have given them, or to initiate criminal investigations and, if necessary, to prosecute them. Mr Markuszower has also asked whether it can be ruled out that private security officers should be taken into custody. That is not something the legislator should want to exclude. If a private security guard is suspected of committing serious criminal offences, there should be the possibility that the courtroom may decide on provisional detention at the request of the officer. Then there may be grounds for reasonable suspicion that the defendant will withdraw from the course of justice or that it is a criminal offence that has seriously disturbed the rule of law. Finally, Mr Markuszower asked questions about being allowed to shoot at pirates when a pirate ship approaches a Dutch merchant ship at great speed and does not respond to fired warning shots. I would like to say first of all that giving private security officers the power to target, obviously not with the aim of causing fatal injury, is very difficult matter which is currently being discussed in the drafting of the violence instruction. Targeted shooting is extremely difficult because of the swell on the ship from which the fire is fired as well as the swell of the pirate ship on which the fire is fired. The use of armed force will have to focus on restricting as much as possible....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what private security teams do in practice. This requires discipline and training, and this will therefore also be the focus of the assessment of an application for authorisation, whether the company concerned can indeed ensure that it meets those levels of discipline and training. Mrs Buitenweg asked why the initiators did not opt for a state law. In fact, this choice coincides with the choice of the initiators to follow the lines of the government position of December 2015 when drafting the bill. The initiative proposal under discussion today does not apply to shipowners who, although flying the Dutch flag, have registered their ships in the Curaçao register. Three years ago, as part of the preparation of the cabinet position, it was already considered whether a state law was necessary. This was discussed at the time with the shipowners and with the countries of the Caribbean, and that resulted in the creation of a lex specialization in the European part of the Netherlands in accordance with the cabinet position.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And that appointment was part of it and this cabinet position was therefore discussed and accepted in the National Council of Ministers. Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Dijk asked the government to look at the root causes of piracy. They wonder what the overall efforts of the Netherlands are to prevent piracy. In cooperation with other countries and international organisations, the Netherlands contributes to various initiatives in this area. In addition to the development cooperation aimed at economic and social strengthening, the Netherlands supports various initiatives aimed at strengthening public administration and the legal system in the countries where such piracy is based or originated. For example, in the context of reconstruction, the Netherlands provided financial support for the strengthening of the federal parliament in Mogadishu and the parliaments in Somaliland and Puntland, for the formal construction of justice in Somalia and, via Free Press Unlimited, for free media. The Netherlands also contributes to EU missions to strengthen the capacity of Somali authorities, and more specifically of the security sector. For example, I refer to the EUTM Somalia, which focuses on advice, mentoring and training for the Somali defence apparatus, and EUCAP Somalia, which focuses on capacity building and support for the civilian security apparatus, for example with training in the field of governance and rule of law. Let me give you another example. For the EU NAVFOR Atlanta operation, please excuse me for all these abbreviations "The Netherlands contributed to the deployment of a Navy ship in 2017. The operation focused not only on deterring pirates from attempting to pirate, but also on monitoring fishing activities in the Somali coastal waters. I would like to turn to a question that I believe was raised by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Voordewind and Mrs Belhaj on the possibility of using smaller VPD units. I understand Mrs Belhaj's remark that if five people were to be deployed, the problem of placement on smaller ships would be out of the world. But I say again on behalf of my colleague in the defense that about ten years ago, a standard VPD consisted of 30 soldiers. Over the years, the team size has been reduced to 18 and later to fifteen people. The current number of eleven is, from an operational point of view, based on the deployment concept used, the minimum standard size to implement the protection responsibly and to meet the requirements within Defence in terms of command and control, and medical support. I see some members coming to the interrupting microphone, but should I finish this first, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u162	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u163	It might be interesting. Defense is based on the assumption that a VPD is fully self-supporting. Private security companies, on the other hand, cooperate with the captain and passengers. For example, they engage onboarders for the 180 degree observation. DOD doesn't do that. A VPD has its own protective equipment, performs round security for a longer period without the help of the ship's crew and maintains secure connections with the Netherlands and military ships in the area. To maintain that communication, specialised personnel are needed within the VPD. So the DOD just does everything himself and just says, "Hey, look, we think we should do it this way." And now there is an important point, also within the framework of the safeguards for the VPD's themselves: Defence will then result in a team of at least eleven people. And I say again: they come from much larger teams. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u164	Yes. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u165	One question that arises from this is what the Minister thinks of this bill in which security is to be done by private security guards in teams of five people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u166	I made a few positive comments at the beginning on the bill. I suppose I can refer to that in the first instance. Then I would like to say to you what your question is about: what is the real difference? So the defense says that this VPD must be made up of at least 11 people because we think that these VPDs should be completely self-supporting. The private companies have a different approach. That is not to say at all that it was still in my text that those VPDs were going to do less quality work or wouldn't do it well. No, that's just another operational approach. This also means, for example, that there are price differences, as we have seen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u167	But it's about the bill, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u168	I have already said that I would like to repeat those sentences. I think it is very good that this bill is in place, because we need this additional protection. But I want to repeat that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u169	Well, you've already done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u170	But this is a bit remarkable, because Mr Ten Broeke said: if the cabinet had arranged this, this law would not have been necessary. I have been with you for some time now, and I do know that the predecessors in another cabinet, such as Minister Hillen, have always said: we are not going to do that; we are not going to give up that monopoly of violence. He had very good arguments for that. As you know, the SP always attaches great importance to the judgment of the cabinet, so I would like to know now whether this minister thinks it is a wise decision to take this step, to give up the monopoly of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u171	I am very pleased that Mr Van Dijk is once again drawing attention to this issue of the monopoly of violence. I mentioned this at the beginning of the De Wijkerslooth committee. That is of course interesting, because that is not exactly a committee composed of politicians. That is a committee of legal and related experts. I paraphrase what that committee says, but I have done so before: the government's monopoly of violence means that the government determines who is competent to use violence under what conditions and circumstances, of course within what proportions and so you can continue. That is what the De Wijkerslooth Committee says on the basis of international case law and simply on the basis of how our rule of law works. I have to admit, there's a little misunderstanding when we think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u172	This debate on the monopoly of violence has been extensive. Since the start of the discussion on this bill, this has been one of the key issues and I thought: we are now done, all the questions have been answered and all the amendments have been answered. And now we're going all the way back to where it started once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u173	But I wanted to help Mr Van Dijk. So what Mr Hillen said at the time, and it can always happen, of course, that there is a certain misunderstanding, was that you give up the monopoly of violence. But it's not. You have the power monopoly as a government and you decide who is the one to exercise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u174	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u175	We are standing here today discussing a law that Mr Ten Broeke said: I created it because the government did not make it. Now my question is: does this cabinet think that this is a good law or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u176	This has already been done, Mr. Jasper Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u177	I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u178	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u179	Well, then I'm gonna go get my text again and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u180	No, we're not going to repeat again, for the third time, what was said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u181	But I said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u182	Yes, Mr. Jasper van Dijk, you must pay attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u183	What was the answer? Was it yes or no? Can you help me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u184	Let me put it this way, that is a lot more straight forward for you: I think it is very good that this initiative legislative proposal is there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u185	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u186	...and I think it's a very good bill in terms of quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u187	Yes, thank you. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u188	I want to return to those VPD teams and their size, 11 years old. The Minister explained that this is a necessity, because the Defense Department has a system that these teams must be self-supporting. I want to understand if that's really always necessary. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u189	That they're self-supporting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u190	Why is it? Because this is one of the crucial problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u191	That's a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u192	Yeah, that's a choice, but that could turn out different. As a result, therefore, the whole issue is that private guards are now allowed to guard the ships. So the why of that choice is important to me to treat properly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u193	You know, that's what you define with each other in advance as a service. Defense defines as a service for surveillance on ships: our unit is then completely self-supporting, we take care of everything. The private security companies say that there are certain activities that we outsource, which we dedicate to the crew of the ship. Yeah, that's a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u194	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u195	It's because the Department of Defense doesn't think it's justified to outsource part of it. So now we find that responsible for private security. That's the crazy part. And the minister is the only representative of the cabinet here, so he also represents the Defense Department. We are not getting a good answer to what really is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u196	You don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u197	No, I don't agree either. But the Defence Department doesn't really think it's justified not to be self-supporting and that's what we suddenly find acceptable when it comes to private security. It is completely unclear to me why the DOD can't do something private security can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u198	It's a somewhat more peaceful situation, but if I take a subscription to the ANWB, then the Road Guard comes along. It says, especially when they see that I have two left hands, which is the case: we take care of everything, please stay at ten meters behind the guardrail. You can also imagine that you have a service service that says: we do it in a different way and we want you to help with certain activities for example; reach out to me when I replace the wheel, to name but a few. That's a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u199	I'm going to end this discussion. You are standing here as an advisor to the Chamber, not as a controlling officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u200	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u201	In that sense, I believe that you have fulfilled your role as an advisor. I shall go to the amendments. There was talk of accepting Mr Öztürk's amendment. I'll see if anyone would mind. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u202	Of Mr Voordewind's amendments, in my opinion, we indicated in our first term that we would find these improvements. We can therefore accept them if the Court has no objection to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u203	Then you mean the amendment to item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u204	That applies to all the amendments if I do have them, including the amendment on item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u205	So the amendment in part No. 12 by Mr Voordewind, Amendment No 12 by Mr Voordewind, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) I hope that everyone will listen, because the question is whether anyone has any objection to accepting the amendments to items Nos. 12, 14 and 15 by Mr Voordewind. Mrs. Belhaj. Oh, excuse me. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u206	I understand that you will no longer turn on the microphone if you see me, but I would still like a vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u207	Okay, about all the amendments? Then we'll vote on it. Thank you. The Minister, too. We are now going to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u208	Mr President, I understand that you had just requested that Mr Öztürk's other amendment should not be put to the vote. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u209	No, we have now agreed to put all the amendments to the vote. Good. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u210	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the authors for their very detailed answers to the questions and the staff for answering all the questions we came up with as well as possible. One of the major problems that we have discussed in connection with De Wijkerslooth is when the duty of care of the government cannot be sufficiently met. Mr Ten Broeke said: Navy ships cannot ultimately provide protection up to the length of the day; they must at some point also do other business or are needed elsewhere. He specifically mentioned the waters of Libya, where they were needed. Mr Van Helvert pointed out the high costs of the current situation for the defence industry. He pointed to Denmark. This is precisely what my group is afraid of: that there is a dynamic, that there is some kind of pressure, including from the government, to keep lowering the demands so that private protectors take over what was originally a government task and which, according to GroenLinks, should still be a government task. I have not received sufficient answers to the question as to why it is really not possible for the Defense Department to work with fewer people. It has been said, however, that these are the agreements within the Defense Department. But that doesn't answer the question: why? If I asked my little boy, he'd keep saying, "Yeah, but why, Mom?" You can't just say, 'cause it is. I think that we have really not received a sufficient response to this. Why does DOD need 11 people and a private security guard four or five? Why can't it be otherwise? I continue to think that it is possible that the monopoly of violence may remain in the hands of the government and that we should ask the Defense Department if it really can set it up any other way. It is also important for GroenLinks that people have security and that they can safely cross the sea, but as far as we are concerned not with private security in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u211	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u212	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to respond to the suggestion made by both proposers that there is really no other way: this law must be introduced, because the government cannot always comply with its duty of care, so we must proceed to private security. I disagree. It remains a choice whether or not to go out to sea. And let me get one misunderstanding out of the way: I don't want to bring anyone into insecurity. That suggestion was raised a little bit, although perhaps you didn't do it on purpose, Mr. Van Helvert. I don't want to put anyone insecure. The point is that there are also commercial interests. Mr Ten Broeke has also said: there must be dangers, there are other countries that have taken action, so this is where the Netherlands is going. No, that has been a consideration of the applicants. That is their right, but it is not necessary to do so. In my opinion, that impression was a little too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u213	I referred to Mr Van Dijk's statement that it remains a choice whether or not to go out to sea. Can Mr Van Dijk explain to me how we are bringing goods from one side of the world to the Netherlands? Is that all on a plane? Or are we going to re-introduce China's train through Russia, Eastern Europe and so on? I think it would be wise to use sea transport. It also seems to me to be a strange argument to suggest that we can do without it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u214	That's the last thing I'm suggesting. Mr Van Oosten knows this very well, because we have done it so far without private security. I think the Netherlands is a very prosperous country and the Netherlands has a very successful merchant. That's really good, and I'm proud of that, too. The proposers suggest that this bill is inevitable and necessary. That is wrong, and I have fought against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u215	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u216	Your remark that it is a choice to go out on the sea, was there any reason at all at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u217	No, it is wrong to say that it is necessary to adopt this bill. I have argued that, so far, the Defense Department has succeeded in providing adequate security. I am also not convinced of the argument that a lot of merchants have decided not to leave. These figures are debatable; that was also acknowledged. So there are other solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u218	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u219	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal creates the possibility of Mrs Buitenweg saying that it is quite right for the Defence Department to sit back. Defense can say: look, private security can solve the work now, we have more to do in the world, and the budget of Defense is always limited, of course. I think this is very risky, apart from the very principled point that the swordpower should lie with the government and that this bill should be passed over that bridge. I find that very worrying. Finally, the next question to the Minister. It is good that he embraces the amendments to refer them to the Chamber. But the question is, what's going to be in those AMvBs? How detailed are they when it comes to distances, prices, instructions on violence and permits abroad? Is he going to lay down detailed rules on this? I have a further reaction to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u220	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u221	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for answering a number of questions from the Chamber. The proposal is very close. It is also nice that the proposers have tried to make it clear that it is indeed about people and that you are then keen to look at a practical solution. Only, in this case, it is also about more people, since this legislative proposal is about releasing an important principle, namely that the government is actually the only one with the ability to apply violence. And the principle that the sword power lies with the government is incredibly important. In fact, if we did not have that, everyone could actually take the law into their own hands. And that does not seem very appropriate to democracy as we know it. So again, as I said in my first term: it is always good to look for solutions, but it is also very healthy to ensure that the filing of certain laws leads to precedent. I note that it has not yet been fully clarified or will actually be. The PVV or Thierry Baudet might think: why don't we do that in a mall or in any other place? People say: but that is not the intention at all. The point about legislative proposals is that you may not want to do so now, but that someone can always bring it up and start a discussion about it. Mr. Chairman. The Minister says that digital criteria will be considered to use the unless principle. I think that's a nice general description. I hope that will eventually become as concrete as possible. I can therefore wholeheartedly support the proposal. I greatly appreciate the commitment to answering the questions, but we are equally not convinced of the grounds for depriving the government of its swordpower. We are therefore not prepared to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u222	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I am looking at Mr Ten Broeke to see if he can respond briefly. He wants a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u223	I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to Members for their second-term contribution, but also for the extensive interruptions in our first term, if I may say so. Of course, thanks also to the Minister for his advisory role. I will try, on behalf of the authors, to answer the following questions. First of all, there was Mrs Buitenweg. I don't see her right now. I can also try to answer that question in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u225	She's here. I can hear her in the hallway. Yeah, there she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u226	You can hear her, but we can't see her. Oh, there she is. We love her, too. Mrs Buitenweg raised the question of whether the VPDs had indicated to the Minister how it had developed over time, and could not be smaller than eleven. That is a question that has been going on for this whole Chamber for years. It's not right on my way to try to answer that question. Nor is it the only reason why this bill is now there, I say to Mr Van Dijk through you, Madam President. Because even if the VPDs could have been smaller, I can still imagine that the "VPD, unless" principle would pay up and private security would still be necessary. I am thinking, for example, of the flexibility for dealing with licence applications. Put that against the need of merchants, for example, who have to deal with the mock market, where market prices can change very quickly and sometimes within a period of less than a week you have to be clear whether you can sail securely or not. The only thing I can remember from the answer is that, of course, the DOD has a different starting point. This is perhaps new for Mrs Buitenweg, because she is not happy for her, I would almost say that all these years in this Parliament we have been asking the same question. Defence, for example, uses different principles when it comes to the medical disposal of waste water, where the Chamber itself is always very keen on it, but also when it comes to the way in which one wants to operate autonomously with one's own Command and Control. This indeed leads to a different size of the teams. But I would like to leave that answer to the government for the rest, because it takes that decision. Mr Van Dijk talks about the choice to go at sea. It seems to flow from that that you can't go at sea either. I was able to sympathize with Mr Van Oosten and his interruption. If you consider that 90% of all the goods and services we consume and use are still dependent on sea transport, I do not know if that is a real choice. You may express it with a little less appreciation than the initiators, but in my view commercial interests can and have played a part in this, and have always done so. If you take the same pride in pointing out that we are a country that has always gained a great deal of wealth from its merchants, then would that argument still have to pay back? I say through you, Mr President, to Mr Jasper Van Dijk, but also to Mrs Belhaj: the swordpower remains with the government. It is not that, as Mrs Belhaj says, everyone can now take the law into their own hands. This is not only not in the law; it is not the law's point of departure. Mrs Belhaj even literally said that the principle of the sword power or the state monopoly on violence would mean: "The government is the only one who is allowed to use violence." No, it doesn't mean that. I can quote myself again, but I don't think that's very convincing. I can quote the Minister, but it doesn't seem to convince you. Then let's bring up the Wijkerslooth and all the other good-looking heads that were there. It is about the conditions under which violence is used and the control that takes place. It's ultimately up to the government. That is the definition for the use of sword power. Whoever raises the sword is not necessarily determined. So obviously the law isn't about a mall, whether Mr. Baudet wants it or not, but then he has to file a law of his own. That would be interesting! Indeed, someone can always bring it up, we as proposers just said to each other. We have that right as members of the Chamber. Mrs Belhaj says that the point is that you have to adapt to the demands that we consider justified. Yeah, that's exactly why we want these AMvBs. That is also why, in purely military situations, the use of force and the instructions that go with it are always considered very long and well. I believe that Mrs Belhaj, as Defence spokesperson, knows how carefully that happens. This is therefore also an excellent role for the State, in this case the Minister of Justice and perhaps also the Minister of Defence, who are at home in it. Following a question, I believe by Mrs Belhaj, I would like to draw attention once again to the principle that we are trying to apply here, namely that you cannot call the police on the high seas. This means that the situation on the high seas is different because of that particular circumstance. This also requires special measures. An argument that came up new is the duty of care. If the duty of care is fulfilled on land, the police do not say: we only protect you if you never walk through an unsafe neighborhood or if you first buy an armored car. No, the police are protecting you in an unsafe neighborhood if you can't afford an armored car. That is, in my view, the proportionality which certainly applies on the high seas. I shall come back to my starting point: this thinking about the monopoly of violence is so peculiar to the founders of international law, who, in any case, come from our own country. The merchants have always brought us a great deal of prosperity. I say to Mr Van Dijk through the chairman that that is no guarantee for the future. We always have to be there and we're way too late. It's been 11 years. I am very happy and very happy to be here tonight with Mr Van Helvert and with this favourable advice from the government to finally put an end to it. I invite all of you to go overboard in this respect and to choose with the proposers the spacious sop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u227	Thank you. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still owe Mrs Van Toorenburg an answer. She asked me what would happen if the engine of such a pirate ship was shot down; shouldn't those pirates be helped, because they are in need in the middle of the sea? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Daarvoor hebben we de International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, afgekort SOLAS.]] That SOLAS stipulates that it is the master's duty to provide assistance in this situation, of course, unless, in the opinion of that captain, this threatens the safety of his own ship. Of course, the balance he has to make is up to the captain. There are, of course, several possibilities for helping or getting it. Finally, I would like to thank the spokesmen. Mrs Belhaj said that letting go of the principle could eventually slip into the trap that everyone can go their own way. I think that both the Minister and the proposers have made it clear that this is not the case. I also think that, in this sense, we should look at countries in our environment within the European Union. Those are not the least countries. Within the European Union, all the socialists and all the liberals have already allowed this. If we were to be so principleless, we should be the only ones in Europe to propose this, but we are the last to do so. That is why I want to end with the words of the merchant preacher, which I actually started with: it is ultimately about protecting people. We shouldn't think there will be violence if we don't pass this law. Then the violence is directed against our sailors and captains. Otherwise this is done by private security that we do not have in our hands and that we cannot impose any conditions at all. That is precisely why we have made this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u229	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u230	Madam President. I have one more question to answer briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u231	Mr Jasper van Dijk's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u232	Yes, the question of how detailed this could be worked out. There are two principles to this. The first is that the law states that delegation is not possible. This means that the elaboration will take place in the AMvB. It is up to your Chamber to check whether it finds the detailing of the various subjects, such as the violence instruction, in the AMvB appropriate and practical. I think that's a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u233	Thank you. Before closing the sitting, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Van Helvert for the fact that they have taken the initiative to submit a legislative proposal. An entire device is available to directors for the support. Of course, MPs also have support, but not to the same extent as in ministries. This must therefore be done alongside the usual work. So thank you very much for that. I also wish you every success in defending in the First Chamber if the bill is passed in the Second Chamber. Anyway, I'm glad you're doing this. That's really special. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u234	Yeah, it's okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-32.u235	We will vote on the bill and the amendments next week. I thank the Minister, the initiators and their support, the officials, the MPs and the people in the public gallery.
