ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u1	We will continue with the debate on responsibility for the year 2017. We were working on the first term on the side of the Chamber and Mr Stoffer is on behalf of the SGP. I call Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Whether it goes well with the Netherlands or not, that depends a bit on who looks at it and from what perspective. Maybe just one example from my own practice. In 2013, there was a Prime Minister who shouted, "Stop gloomy, we need to get out of this crisis! Buy a car or buy a house!"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u3	Good man, that Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u4	That car came through my employer, so I couldn't buy it, but it was a new car. Our house was so nice that we thought: we don't want to leave here, but we're going to grow it large-scale. The contractors were in line, the prices were good, so yes, everyone was actually quite happy. In 2017, there was no prime minister who called for something to do, but I had a daughter who wanted a better bedroom. So he said, "Daddy, you gotta put a rooftop on it." I went to that contractor; I thought: he'll be happy with me again. But it took nine months for that rooftop to be on it. My daughter waited nine months for that rooftop, and that contractor had so much work to do you think, "pooh." Were we happier in 2013 or in 2017? Every Dutchman will have such an example that you can either understand one way or the other. As SGP, we don't expect heaven on earth, so whatever you do, it won't be entirely ideal. But I don't know a nicer and better country than the Netherlands where I'd like to live. That's for introduction. I have three more points on the substance, and I would like to start with King Josef, because at the presentation last week the Minister mentioned King Josef's wise lesson. For those who do not know this story from the Bible: King Josef gathered enough food in his barns during seven prosperous years to pass through the seven lean years. Not only for his own people, but also for the neighbors. To this day, public debt needs to be repaid sufficiently to cope with a new crisis without rigorous austerity. No one knows how long this next crisis is gonna take, but we know for sure that it will come someday. Just before the previous crisis, the Minister also gave it to the government debt last week was 45.3%. In 2014, the explosive had increased to 68%. Fortunately, we are heading in the right direction again, but with an expected debt of 52% at the end of this year, I would like to argue for restraint in spending. As far as we are concerned, the barns are not yet full, the bad years have not yet arrived. In my view, these are two reasons why we should not start handing out. Our question is whether the Minister agrees with us. My second point is the rule pressure. In the previous cabinet, we saw a special action plan to tackle the regulatory burden. The accounts show that the target of 2.5 billion has almost been achieved. A compliment for that result. We see that it helps to set a goal, but we have to conclude that we miss that with this cabinet. Our question is, therefore, whether the Minister is prepared to take further action on this issue, to deal with the regulatory burden and to come up with a new ambition. Our third point is transparency. Three questions are central to a debate on accountability and I have already heard the terms from GroenLinks. Have the expenses made any sense? Have they been economical? And have they been careful? Last year, my predecessor Elbert Dijkgraaf drew attention to the poor understanding of evaluations and also made some suggestions for improvement. It is good to see how, for example, a website has been used in the field of development aid. Also at OCW we see a good result, namely the website www.onderwijsinfigures.nl. Does the Minister see opportunities to provide insight into benefits, burdens and, above all, results achieved for other ministries in a similar way to those mentioned above? Is it possible to publish a kind of reading guide? It is not the intention, after all, to publish a figures report on people which is not yet being dealt with. After two promising projects a few questions about money, of which it is not sufficiently clear what will happen to it, at least for us. The figures of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment and the UWV do not match, making it impossible to find out what results have been achieved with the reintegration budget. Our question is therefore whether this can still be understood. The police, which is a very appropriate theme, have made additional investments in recent years. Here too, accountability could and should be improved. The SGP Group is therefore very curious whether the extra money has achieved the desired results. Other colleagues have mentioned more examples where it can be done better. We are not going to repeat them all. We hope that the examples of colleagues and what we have just mentioned in this debate will help us to get the Netherlands even a little bit better and more beautiful than it already is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. It's a special day today. We are talking for the first time about the broad, but also about the narrow prosperity. The Rutte III cabinet ruled only 66 and about half a day in 2017. 2017 was mainly the domain of the Rutte II cabinet. 2017 was also the last year of Rutte II and thus the year in which the final results of the cabinet of the PvdA and the VVD were established. That is why this debate of accountability gives the Chamber an opportunity to look back. Not only on 2017, but also on the entire cabinet period of Rutte II. Looking back on the policy pursued does not always get the attention it deserves. The here and now and the future usually require all the attention of politics. You know, the delusion of the day. That's too bad. In addition to the representative and legislative role, the supervisory role of the Chamber deserves to be taken into account. But first something about the method. In 2000, the Chamber launched the VBTB pathway, from policy budget to policy accountability. This VBTB operation was intended to answer the three W questions: what do we want to achieve with policies at a rich level, what do we do for them and what does it yield? In this way, the government was forced to reflect critically on the purpose, effectiveness and effectiveness of public policy. The targets had to be as specific, measurable, acceptable, realistic and time-bound as possible. For each objective, there were performance data in the form of performance indicators and indicators. Failure to achieve the desired results could lead to policy adjustment. For reasons unknown to DENK, the VBTB system was replaced in 2011 by another one, that of the Responsible Budgeting. As a result, the annual reports became mainly financial documents, with less policy information and more financial data and as a result a declining information value. Responsible Budgeting is now under way for more than seven years and two cabinet periods and as far as DENK is concerned, this system can now be evaluated and compared with VBTB. Is Responsible Budgeting really an improvement over the other cycle or can certain elements from VBTB be retrieved again? I am considering a motion on this point. I would like to look back on financial and economic policy. After the previous cabinet took office on 5 November 2012, we saw an extension of the economic recession, which continued until 2013. In 2014 and 2015, we saw slow recovery growth. This recovery could not prevent unemployment rising to some 700,000 people, 8% of the labour force. Government debt rose to 68% of gross domestic product, some EUR 700 billion. The deficit in 2013 was around 2.4% of GDP, i.e. around EUR 18 billion. And in 2013, this was even 3.8%, some EUR 28 billion. Mr President, it looked bad. House prices fell to a low point in 2013 and all signals were red. 2014 and 2015 were years of cautious recovery. From 2016 onwards, we see accelerating economic growth, according to the Macro Economic Recognition, resulting in an economic growth rate of 3.3% in 2017 and a surplus of 1.1% of GDP in the budget. The overall macroeconomic policy is positive and full employment is even in sight. Many had not thought this possible for a long time. Macroeconomically, therefore, the lights are green. A number of times it has been recalled that we are seeing a dramatic picture in terms of purchasing power. This positive economic development does not translate into disposable income for Dutch households. The economy grew by 3.3% in 2017 and people's purchasing power grew by around, grab it,... about 0%, depending on which institution you believe. That is, of course, an imbalance. In fact, the table on page 25 of the last Millions note shows that real disposable income has not or hardly increased since 2001. Economic prosperity is not automatically redistributed to the population. This is where the cabinet has to assume its responsibilities. The citizens of our country hear wonderful stories about the economy, but hardly notice anything about it in their wallets. We just saw it: the VVD spokesperson compliments them on their contribution to resolving the crisis. "Thank you, Dutch people, for letting us steal more money from your wallet." And now that the economy is going well, the same VVD gives 1.6 billion to Shell and Unilever. And that 1.6 billion is including the delivery, because Rutte comes to deliver that bag of money himself. Mr President, I would like to say something about wages. The president of DNB, the finance minister, the IMF, many economists, the trade union movement and even VNO-NCW called for higher wages last year. The previous Minister of Finance had even become a member of the FNV. Yet this seems to be yet another powerless call to come to those higher wages. Because how much of that call has come to pass? The trade union seems to have too weak a negotiating position, partly as a result of further flexibilisation. This could possibly be achieved through a new social agreement in which the social partners and the government can reach joint agreements in a tripartite dialogue. One of these agreements could be to agree a national wage increase equivalent to economic growth, i.e. 3.3%, with a minimum of €1,000. Mr President, the Court of Auditors has argued to organise more counter-power. Surely it is striking that there are persistent shortcomings in Justice, Defence and the Tax Administration and that they are not being resolved? The problems at the Tax Office have also been discussed several times by previous speakers. DENK wants these problems to be solved. We're really tired of those bodies coming out of that closet. And how big is that closet where those bodies come from at the IRS? And can the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State come up with a credible plan? The Court of Auditors reiterates that the budgets and annual reports say too little and sometimes nothing about the efficiency and effectiveness of public spending. There is information, but where exactly it can be found, the Chamber can go and find out for itself. The president, Arno Visser, uses a slightly different metaphor. He talks about a smokescreen of four different carriages that each tell part of the truth. This does not make it easy for Parliament. The Court of Auditors has also indicated that the budget and accountability have been sold. There should be full accountability. The DENK Group fully agrees with this. Can the Minister consult with the General Court in order to form this full responsibility together? And can he come back to the Chamber on this in the fall? I am also considering a motion on this point. Mr President, the DENK Group welcomes the Monitor Brede Prosperity, which has been offered to the Chamber for the first time this year. 'Cause what's money worth if you're unhappy? And there's more to life than economy than government debt than GDP. The environment, public health, safety and education are perhaps more important. The DENK Group hopes that the Monitor Brede Welvaart will be further developed and become an integral part of the political debate. And of course compliment the CBS on the quality and clarity of that monitor. The general picture is indeed positive: 85% of the Dutch are satisfied with his life. That is the highest percentage in Europe. But in the field of overweight, nature and leisure, things are not as good. The same applies to the exposure to particulate matter and the victimisation of crime. I would like to hear from the Minister what he and the other rulers are going to do with this. Will the Minister come in September with policy changes? Furthermore, we notice in the monitor that in the egalitarian Netherlands there are large differences between higher and lower educated people. That's what worries us. What also worries us are the differences between Dutch and Dutch without a migration background. The significant differences between young people and older people are also very striking. For these groups, the wide prosperity is very narrow. Let me give you some examples. Unemployment among people with a non-western background is three times higher than among people with a western background. In the capital structure, the ratio is €38,000 - €600. In the case of personal well-being, the ratio is 65% - 45%. Does the Minister share the view that these differences cannot be defended? What conclusions does he draw from this? These differences are reflected in many areas in the broad prosperity that people experience. It comes back in the confidence that people have in each other, the level of education that is achieved, the financial capacity that is built up, the income that is earned, the personal welfare index and subjective well-being. Thanks to the Monitor Brede Welvaart we now have a better understanding of these unjust differences. Isn't that really unheard of in the Netherlands of 2018? Mr President, I should like to conclude. The route from May to September must be followed, as the Court of Auditors has also indicated. In other words, something must be done with these results. Not words, but deeds! Otherwise, the monitor is nothing more than a dead letter. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to ensure that in next year's monitor the differences mentioned are smaller. What steps is he going to take to do that? How much money is he going to pay for this and how is he going to use it? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin this debate on responsibility with a compliment to Mark Rutte. Compliments of how he keeps telling the good VVD-choosers that they benefit so much from the endless burden increases of his cabinets. First of all, the crisis is getting worse by increasing taxes with Kunduz chords and leveling parties. And when the crisis is over, he also increases the burden for working Netherlands. See here the Rutte coefficient: an increase in the total tax and premium pressure from 35% in 2011 to almost 40% in 2021. For the sake of clarity, these figures come from the secret dividend memos that Rutte said didn't exist at first, but which existed then. The projection shown is from memo 12. A unique recipe. No matter how you turn it around or turn it around. Mark Rutte deserves a compliment for that. Whether it goes economically well or badly, the one-trick-pony Rutte increases taxes and voters' gardens in it over and over again. The VAT on food goes up by 50%: cool! The care premiums are rising: cool! We can no longer use gas and must all buy a so-called sustainable heat pump of €18,000: cool! The energy load is going up: cool! Meanwhile, the dividend tax for foreign investors will be abolished, without giving anything to the Dutch economy: cool! We live in a very cool country. As easy lambs, the VVD voters are led to the economic slaughter bank by the illusionist Rutte. Yeah, compliments are in order. But also compliments for the new Italian government. Because as destructive as the planned policy is for the economy in the northern euro area countries, the Italians are doing exactly what is rational to do in that dramatic euro area. After all, once you are in such a currency union, you better hand out some presents to your own people and hope that the economy will get better. After all, the Greek crisis has shown that the euro elite want to preserve the dramatic euro coin at all costs. So spend some money. The North's gonna pay anyway. If everything continues, Italy will receive a 15% flat tax for anyone who earns less than €80,000 a year and a 20% flat tax for anyone who earns more than €80,000 a year. In addition, a basic income of €780, while the retirement age is still falling. The Italian measures cost perhaps 100 billion, according to initial estimates. They'll see how they pay in Italy later. Well, how do they pay for it? How we pay for it, actually. In practice, the bill will be deposited with us; with us stragglers in the Netherlands, if Rutte has been in Brussels long and wide for his next job. Meanwhile, we read on page 16 of the accountability report that the public debt decreased by 24 billion more than budgeted. If this is an additional repayment, my question is to the Minister of Finance. The interest rate is at historically low levels due to ECB policy. And then we're gonna pay extra? What the hell is the background to this inefficient policy? People may not want it to get through, but in the perverse euro system that unfortunately we are in until we finally get out of it, paying off debts provides an incentive for others to make additional debts. It's like the Hoekstra family took Mark Rutte's credit card to the P.C. Hooftstraat goes and there all shops empty. Who cares? Send the bill to the thrifty, economical Dutch taxpayer. He'll pay again. She'll steal everything and vote VVD again. This is how the transfer union works in the euro area. That's how this cabinet operates. If there's any money needed in Italy, Junker's calling collection agency Rutte and Hoekstra. First, Rutte created an internal transfer union whereby the money from entrepreneurs and citizens was transferred to the State. Now Rutte transfers that money from the Dutch state to southern Europe, so that the Italians can reduce the burden and lower the retirement age. And for that, we are in traffic every day. Congratulations. What are we supposed to do, real tax cuts? To restore the purchasing power affected by Rutte, the Forum for Democracy wants to make the first €20,000 income tax-free for every working Dutchman. Some kind of basic income, but unlike in Italy, you have to work for it. This simplification also represents a huge boost for our economy and increases economic dynamism in the Netherlands. We finance this by reducing the role of the government in the Dutch economy every year. More money to the citizens; less money to the state. The disastrous trend of the Rutte curve must be reversed, and quickly. In addition, this reduces the workload for the Tax Administration, so that Secretary of State Snel can also control the mess at the Tax Administration that Wiebes has created. Secondly, not a tax reduction for foreign investors by abolishing the dividend tax, but an annual abolition of inheritance tax for Dutch citizens for the same amount. This benefits the Dutch economy and is good for justice. And: that money has already been taxed. Three: stop the priceless sustainability madness, which is estimated to cost us €170 billion. Invest in innovation. Make sure the Netherlands becomes the Silicon Valley of Europe, but do not invest in the obsessive reduction of that little bit of CO that we emit. That's much better money spent. Finally, point four: a stop to mass immigration and open borders, which puts our social infrastructure, our education, our security and our society as a whole under unheard of burdens. Not only economic burdens, but also cultural, social and demographic burdens. That is the way forward. That's what we have to do. As long as we do not, we can say rightly, and I would like to repeat a German politician: we are ruled by idiots.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 3.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u10	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr President. The majority of the answer will be given by the Minister of Finance. The division of roles is as follows: I will now take up a few topics, namely the Monitor Brede Prosperity, the housing market, defense and justice. The other subjects, including everything related to the shortcomings identified by the General Court, will be the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I'll start with the Monitor Brede Prosperity. That monitor is a good development, as many have said today. We see that the monitor is really adequate, because it provides insight into all kinds of factors on which our prosperity depends. In this sense, the cabinet considers the monitor to be a valuable instrument. A large amount of indicators is shown and discussed in the monitor. These include issues such as health, safety, education, social contacts, nature and climate. I think that the monitor really contributes to the debate we are having today. Against this background, certain questions can be asked. They have also been asked from the Chamber, for example the question of how we look at the relationship between the implementation of policies and the objectives, policy and accountability. Were these documents discussed in the Cabinet, too? The cabinet has discussed the Monitor Brede Prosperity. As I said, we have not only looked at the content of this, but we have also found that this monitor is helping us. The observations made by the Central Bureau of Statistics have already been included in this debate a few times, namely that prosperity in the Netherlands is generally good, also from a broader perspective, but that there are important issues, for example the use of fossil fuels and other raw materials. The question is whether, just as you solve the sovereign debt, you should also resolve this environmental crisis instead of passing it on to future generations. The monitor indicates that some groups are left behind. These observations have also been made on several occasions in the debate. Let me make a comment on climate policy. It is well known that the government is committed to one of the most ambitious climate targets and that it is developing a whole programme to reduce C0 emissions. We want a 55% CO reduction by 2030. We are now focusing on 49% in our plans. We are trying to get the European target at 55%. To this end, we are working on a climate agreement, together with all kinds of civil society organisations, and, of course, also on a climate law, in which we will lay down a number of things. We are also looking at the initiatives from the corners of GroenLinks and PvdA. The discussion on how to cooperate on this issue is under way. If this is to succeed, we are firmly convinced that this must be done; with the further sustainability of the Dutch economy, the trade-out between prosperity here and now and prosperity later and elsewhere will also be reduced. That's the purpose of that. Then there is also social security policy and education, culture and science policy in the area of strengthening the position of weaker groups. We will have endless debates in the Chamber on these subjects. Of course, in next year's debate on accountability, we will have to consider whether things will improve. Against the background of the foregoing, the question of the integrality of accountability has been asked. The Minister of Finance will shortly discuss in detail the overall cycle of accountability, but let me say something about the relationship between the Monitor Brede Welvaart and the state of affairs concerning the Sustainable Development Goals, the SDGs, which the Court of Auditors has been working on. Where these documents overlap in substance, that has been rightly noted by some spokesmen...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Therefore, as we announced last week, the Cabinet will explore with the Central Bureau of Statistics how to integrate the publications and also the offer letters on the SDGs and the Monitor Brede Welvaart from 2019 onwards, so that we can streamline and achieve this kind of accountability as much as possible. I still think that is much better than a fairly empty letter of accountability which the Prime Minister adds to it. I never found so much in there. This seems much more useful to me. Against that backdrop you can ask the question "" which has also been asked "" how to develop the monitor further. What could be better? I told you, the monitor talks about a lot of things. Over the next two years, the monitor is still under development, with further investment in complementing and improving the composition of the indicator set in it. The CBS conducts talks with the cabinet, politics and science to improve the monitor and also raises suggestions for its further development. This could, for example, include increasing the timeliness of data; this would help. The choice of indicators can also change over time. For example, what I just mention is the dimension elsewhere, to give more insight into the impact of Dutch economic activities on other countries. That aspect could be involved. By the way, that immediately has a link with the Sustainable Development Goals and that seems interesting to me. However, the Cabinet and Central Bureau of Statistics believe that it is important not to allow it to expand into something huge. We need to look critically at which indicators really add something, so that the monitor remains useful and comparable for the debate. Then the question was asked whether the cabinet endorses the reading in the book Vulnerable Prosperity of the Netherlands, and especially the role played by obstacles, fans of the status quo. That too is something the Monitor Brede Prosperity is looking at. He looks at the present and the future and the prosperity later. With regard to prosperity later, there are basic principles regarding the use of fossil fuels, raw materials and the living environment. As I have just said, the cabinet also conducts policy in this area. Then a question has been asked from the same angle, namely whether animal welfare can get a place in the Monitor Brede Prosperity. The problem here is that a clear indicator of animal welfare is not yet available. The Agricultural University is engaged in research aimed at measuring animal welfare. It may eventually lead to indicators that can be meaningfully included in the monitor, but then it is up to the statisticians of the CBS to see if and when this is the case. In the meantime, of course, the government is pursuing animal welfare policy by making demands on livestock farming. This issue will also be addressed in the agricultural vision prepared by the Minister for Agriculture. Mr. Chairman. I think I would like to say one more thing about the monitor, namely Mr Snels' question about the power differences. The Broad Prosperity Monitor indicates that not all groups benefit equally from prosperity development. That is one of the two themes that the Chamber has just highlighted in the debate, in addition to the climate theme. Attention is paid both to the distribution of wealth and to the distribution of income. Mr Snels asked for particular attention to the distribution of power. Now the point is that, unlike income policy, there is no clear measure of the distribution of wealth. For example: which components of power do you bring and which do you not? Parts of government policy have a direct and indirect impact on the distribution of assets. For example, the pension system aims to enable people to build capacity for the future. The housing market policy supports people to build assets in their own homes. Such policies, of course, have an impact on the distribution of assets between groups. This is not explicitly the aim of the policy. Election programmes also do not include measurable targets for the distribution of assets. Let alone that policy programmes have been calculated to indicate whether these ambitions are being realised. In addition, this distribution of capital year after year is also heavily influenced by the development of house prices. This makes it very difficult to send here from year to year. By the way, the cabinet, having said all this, does not want to send on this at all. In fact, I am also quite right to think that there are no views on what a balanced distribution of power is. So the above as a technical answer to the question. And with that I also answered all questions about the Monitor Brede Prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u12	Just before I give the floor to Mr Snels: I assume that we have the same number of interruptions or questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u13	If you see that pile lying with the Minister of Finance, you have to take care...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u14	Stay out of it, I'd say. Otherwise, we'll do six interruptions to the Prime Minister first and then... No! I now give the floor to Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u15	I am a little surprised by the answers to the question of power distribution, but in order to spare any interruptions, I leave that question to Mr Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u16	You can also talk about animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u17	I leave that to my colleague Van Raan. The Prime Minister himself referred to climate policy and the objective agreed in the coalition agreement, the 49%. In fact, I think that is a very nice analogy with what I would like a little more in other areas, namely that you should first know what purpose you have so that you can look back later on how policy should become responsible. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me, for example with regard to health care or all kinds of social indicators? Getting a little more clarity about what the cabinet's goals actually are would help with accountability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u18	I used to work at a company that was working on ISO certification. Eventually you can also produce concrete swimbands that meet all requirements, while you still have concrete swimbands. So be careful what you don't measure. There are limits to it, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u19	This surprises me. This is a plea from the Court of Auditors and from a large part of the Chamber. The Prime Minister himself says that the Monitor Brede Prosperity and the Sustainable Development Goals are important, but they come back into the budget cycle now, when we look back at what the policy has done. There must be a certain relationship between goals and accountability. That argues in a way that will not be easy; I admit that to try to set targets in budgets a little more, so that there really is a relationship between a budget one year and accountability a year later. That would be preferable as a system, with all the ifs and buts and with all the complexities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yes, in a general sense, of course. I'm just wondering what kind of fire I'm walking into.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u21	I'm going through my questions so quickly, but that's because the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u22	Shall I say something more to help Mr. Snels, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u23	Yes. Maybe first the Prime Minister will be a little more substantive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u24	I agree, of course, in a general sense. In 2002, it was called "From Drink to Drink" or "From Policy Preparation to Policy Responsibility." For example, we have all developed systems to try to work as well as possible from objectives, to measure et cetera. But it's incredibly difficult. You also have to be so careful that you don't measure the wrong things in the end. You have to look at that exactly. Also, you should not think that it achieves some kind of perfection in policy. It's never gonna be perfect. I think Snels and I agree. Yes, of course, you'd like as much as possible. In the environment, it is also so complicated. When I look at Mr Snel's heart really deeply, I do not think he really thinks it should be left to the aim of 49% and 55%. He will say that there needs to be a separate objective for renewable energy. As a cabinet, we are very opposed to such a separate objective. We have said: take one objective, because then you focus everything on it, so that the underlying objectives do not get in the way of the main objective. That only indicates, even in terms of 49% and 55%, how complicated the practice is from the policy point of view that Snels and I share.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u25	Finally. The Prime Minister has been swimming a little bit into the trap anyway. I hope there's still some swimming power behind it to keep swimming. But one more example. Of course, you can have the political debate on objectives. That also needs to be fed, because the VVD and GroenLinks think differently. That's okay; that's exactly what the political debate should be about. But what is so interesting about the climate objectives is that the policy has not been boarded up. The measures have not been adopted. We know the purpose...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u27	...and working the way, learning the way, with evaluations, we're going to find out what the best policy is. That's important for a learning government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u28	Yes. Just, I mention the example of climate because you can say that you have a main target of 55% CO reduction in 2030 compared to 1990 et cetera. There is an open objective and there is a policy underneath it. You could say that you still have to have an objective for renewable energy and then perhaps another objective et cetera; we have had three or four. You do that when you know that those other objectives that are in the way of the main objective rather than bringing them closer, at least, I would say in the debate, because it will then sub-optimalise to such a renewable energy objective. You do that while there may be much more efficient ways of achieving the CO reduction target. This shows as an example that alone the ideal of an objective is not sacred and that it is difficult to get out of it. So let us have no illusions. I have been in national politics since 2002, and we have been having this debate for 16 years. It is getting better and better; I think that is true and this monitor contributes to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u29	Now you're all standing next to each other. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u30	Quite specifically, in order to save Mr Snels from another interruption, I think that the climate is indeed a good example and that we have indeed achieved an objective which, at least, GroenLinks welcomes. I think there are a number of policy areas where we do not yet have such objectives at all. So perhaps the Prime Minister could look at this level of ambition in the preparation of the next budget and say that the climate benchmark is also to be found for those other policy areas, so that we can look back at it on the Day of Account for 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yes, of course. That's what we do as a cabinet. I'm just saying, don't think that's just settled. We've been working on this for 16 years, and you just see how hard it is. But I agree; let's try. The more the merrier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u32	I understand that the Prime Minister does not deal with the comparison of the economy of here and now and doping. I do not blame him at all, but I would like him not only to mention the book 'Vulnerable Prosperity', he did, for which he thanked, but also to comment a little more on the analysis contained in it and on the role of obstacles to transitions. That's question one; I'll have another question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u33	I have not prepared myself for this debate on responsibility for this issue in such detail. I know it's about everything, but I didn't expect this turn in advance. So I already liked it so much that I mentioned the title.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u34	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u35	I want to... on this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u36	No, no, no, Mr. Baudet. Mr Van Raan has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yeah, but I think at this point. I want to make another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u38	No, Mr Van Raan has the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yeah, but that's why I wanted to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u40	No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u41	I would like to make my point, Mr President, and perhaps Mr Baudet will be able to supplement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u42	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u43	I will finish this point and perhaps Mr Baudet will be able to supplement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u44	Yes, that was the intention. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u45	It's very nice that the Prime Minister calls the book. That's good PR. I will send the questions on this point in writing, because that really deserves this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u46	But not to me, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u47	Yeah, to the Prime Minister, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u48	As cc.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u49	In addition, there will be written questions: the Prime Minister should not overestimate that book. It is based on what is called "the mischief of the conformation bias." When you look from a particular development, you can then see that those developments are hampered by certain things and are stimulated by other things. But now, right now, you don't know what developments in 30 years' time, when we look back, the winning developments will have been. That is the so-called "Columbus laughs last" deception. That whole book is based on the fallacy. So don't overestimate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u50	It is interesting that Mr Baudet now wants to talk about books in a political debate. That's funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u51	This is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u52	It's a good thing the Prime Minister brings that up. 'Cause I brought him a copy. So I'll give that to him later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u53	Don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u54	I'll give it to him later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u55	I'm sure that's a very expensive book, over 50 bucks. I can't take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u56	In addition to Mr Baudet's review, I just have another question for the Prime Minister about the Monitor Brede Welvaart. It is not entirely clear to me what the coherence is between the results of the Broad Prosperity Monitor and the government policy. What exactly is going to happen on the basis of these outcomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u57	Like I said, show it where we are. Cabinet policy is one of the factors that influences this, but you will not fail to point out to a liberal politician that I am only limited in my conviction of the auspicious work that we can do as politicians for people's happiness. There are many other factors that have an impact on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u58	So I actually hear the Prime Minister say: we are going to continue with the policy of the cabinet and in a year's time we will carry out another investigation; there will be other investigations and we will continue to do so. So there is no real connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u59	Well, there's part of it. If the monitor shows that there is a risk of shifting the account to a next generation in terms of climate policy, as a cabinet, you can, of course, ask yourself whether the policy that has been put in place to combat global warming and to ensure that CO emissions are somewhat contained, and that global warming thus orients itself as much as possible to the 1.5°C of the Paris objectives, is sufficient to contribute to this. This is, of course, one of those issues on which politics has more control than, for example, the differences in income. I just outlined all the other factors that affect this and that the cabinet does not pursue a targeted policy on it, and rightly so, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u60	I see you thinking, Mr. Azarkan. You can come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u61	He's convinced. That's much more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u62	Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u63	While we're giving tips. I would advise the Prime Minister not to overestimate Mr Baudet either. The author of the book The fragile prosperity is of course aware of that trap, of that bias. This is therefore being given generous attention. That was not my question, my question is about the following. The Prime Minister says Wageningen is in the process of establishing animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u65	However, what is animal welfare has been more or less in the law for a long time. These are the five principles of Brambell, free of hunger and discomfort, natural behavior, no stress, and that sort of thing. We are inspired and encouraged by D66 in that. Does the Prime Minister see any possibility of helping the University of Wageningen? Apparently, they haven't figured out what animal welfare is about yet. If we give these very specific animal welfare aspects, which, once again, are enshrined in the law, in a motion, how does the Prime Minister view them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u66	I do not think it is so much a question of animal welfare, as it is a question of measuring. We have asked Wageningen University of Agriculture to look at its measurability. That's what they're looking at right now. This research could eventually lead to indicators that can be taken into account in this overall Monitor Broad Prosperity. Once again, it is of course up to the statisticians of the CBS to see if they can get out of their way with that. So I don't think the discussion is: what is animal welfare? But more: how do you make that measurable? There is, at least I understand, the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u67	This Prime Minister once declared that poverty does not exist. Now he says in the debate: I have no idea about the distribution of assets. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u68	Sure. The cabinet has no policy on the distribution of assets in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u69	Then the cabinet probably has no objection to a capital tax knowing that 10% holds two thirds of the assets. This does not include pensions. This concerns 89% of the shares of this country, for example, and no income tax is levied on them. If he doesn't have a view on assets, then I'm sure he doesn't object to a somewhat larger contribution from these empires in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u70	We have no idea what exactly is a balanced distribution of power. The cabinet does not make any other political choices. What Mrs Leijten is proposing is, of course, a vulgar burden increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u71	A vulgar burden increase that this cabinet is also good at. VAT shall be increased from 6% to 9%. That is precisely where people with ordinary incomes spend the most money on ordinary messages, the most trouble and those richest people don't. So if you're saying "we're against burden increase," then that VAT increase should also be dropped. But my question was this. If we have a cake, two-thirds of that cake is 10% of our population. They pay a lot less tax on it than ordinary workers. Would it not be fair, then, if you do not have a view on the distribution of capital, that we are going to impose a tax on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u72	Possession also has to do with all kinds of choices people make in their lives. It's part coincidence, part happiness, but part hard work. The cabinet is not against success, unlike the SP maybe. We're not against success. Nor are we opposed to people being possessed, to people building up an apple for thirst. Of course, most of the wealth in the Netherlands has the size of a big apple for thirst, but they are not bizarre amounts. By the way, what she says about VAT sounds rhetorically interesting, but it is part of a broader tax review that is, on balance, aimed at reducing taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u73	I have been hearing this Prime Minister say for two years in a row that purchasing power is improving, but we have not noticed that yet. Wages are left behind. He doesn't do anything about it. He has no idea that two thirds of the cake is in the hands of 10% of our country and that it pays 10% less tax than the other 90%. And here we see the real problem of this cabinet. I had hoped that this Prime Minister would have some progressive insight, because he said that poverty does not exist, but today the cabinet is presenting the attack on poverty and debt. That's really good. So poverty does exist. I'd still like him to do something about that capital gap. We will simply make proposals, because if the cabinet does not want to do so, the Chamber may want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u74	Of course, Mrs Leijten has to tell the whole story. Firstly, we have a progressive tax system for income tax. That means that people who earn more also pay more taxes. Secondly, this cabinet succeeds in reducing income disparities. The Gini coefficient is falling in this cabinet; it is not increasing, but falling in this cabinet. You have to tell the whole story, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u75	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u76	I will continue, Mr President, but from my angle I see Mrs Leijten standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u77	It has just been said that we would be against success. I believe that a person who has an ordinary job and who does not have that capacity or 10% of the wealth can also be successful. That was already bullshit from the Prime Minister. He's saying I'm not telling the whole story, but that's bullshit. I'm talking about power distribution. I'm not talking about income distribution. I'm talking about power distribution. And the Prime Minister can't walk away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u78	Yeah, but you have to look at the whole thing, I think. And then I find that this cabinet reduces income differences and that it also maintains...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u80	... that the people who earn more also pay more taxes, even in a system that ultimately ends up on two discs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u82	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Just a few more things. To begin with, a question had been asked about the housing market. If you look at the monitor, it turns out that the Netherlands scores relatively poorly on the percentage of disposable income spent on living. But you can also see that the Netherlands is the leader in the European Union in terms of satisfaction with the home and that it has the greatest satisfaction with the living environment. What are we doing? The Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Ms Ollengren, is working with co-governments and other stakeholders on a national housing agenda. Today some things have come out about this; I saw it just appear on the net. In this housing agenda, the parties agree to reduce the housing shortage and to pay attention to the quality of the housing but also to the living environment. This cooperation with other levels of government is vital because solutions can only be found at local level and often require tailor-made solutions. It has therefore been agreed that 100 million will be made available for the promotion of sustainable investment by corporations. We take measures to increase the supply of middle rental homes, so that living for all households in the Netherlands remains affordable. Municipalities are also provided with instruments to guide the provision of middle-rent housing in spatial planning. And, of course, the Environment Act is working on simplifying and streamlining environmental law, which should, among other things, lead to faster procedures. This is not going to solve overnight all the problems, but the ambitions of social parties and the government in terms of the number of homes to be realized, the quality and the living environment that have also come out today give me the confidence that we can take steps together on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u83	I agree with the Prime Minister that this will not solve the problems in the housing market. In fact, in my input, I said that the cabinet is also taking a number of measures. Some measures are good; more needs to be built to make it more affordable and more difficult. I refer to the cuts in rent payments and the hundreds of millions in tax increases for housing corporations. The only mailboxes that real people are behind are caught by the letterbox measure of Secretary of State Snel. In short, is the Minister prepared, in view of the monitor, to review the measures that are really struggling, such as'should we do so, isn't that unwise'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u84	No. By the way, this is a look-back debate and that was a preview question. But no, the cabinet does not intend to take back its intentions. However, it intends to realise the ambitions and to this end the social initiatives I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u85	Yes, but if the only thing the cabinet really wants to do with the data and analyses in the Monitor Brede Welvaart is to read the coalition agreement again, then of course we're not getting anywhere. It is very clear from this that affordability, especially for tenants, is therefore more important than for buyers, although it is not easy for 50-minners to buy a house. The cabinet actually says: we do nothing about that, except what we agreed in the coalition agreement. Actually, that works against those affordable rentals. That's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u86	So I really don't agree with that. However, I can see that not every measure contributes precisely, immediately and one-on-one to solving problems. Measures are also being taken with other objectives. But as a whole, the government's housing market policy, which, in my view, is a logical continuation of the policy pursued by the previous coalition of the Labour Party and the VVD, is aimed at ensuring that, now that the country is out of the crisis, sufficient houses of sufficient quality are built in a quality housing environment. The emphasis is on how we can find sufficient housing for what I now call 'the middle sector', i.e. the middle housing, because there is a problem there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u87	"Not every measure may contribute to this'. That's a little rutian for "it's really working against it." And this really is not a continuation of the policy of the past cabinet. The rent allowance has been increased time and time again; it is now being cut back. The VVD had in its election programme a few billion more savings on housing corporations. She has had her way to a large extent, while the housing corporations still have to build those affordable homes. And when I look at the Monitor Brede Prosperity and at the big problems of this time, I throw that at the cabinet. Then do something about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u88	But look at today's messages. So that's what we do. There is the ambition to build 75,000 houses a year, expressed jointly today by social parties. The landlord's tax has been introduced by the previous cabinet; Mr Nijboer cannot run away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u89	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the housing shortage and the house production. The housing shortage is high, the production is too low. This is especially a problem for people, young people, who want to buy a house. The middle rental market is a problem, but the housing is also very expensive, mainly because prices are rising, but also because of the 100% repayment obligation in 30 years. At the end of the night debate on the abolition of the Hills Act, so on that discharge, I advocated the last quarter of my long speech, at night at one o'clock or one, to see if we could not reduce 100% to 75% or a little less, in order to reduce the repayment element of the annual fixed charges for start-ups and young buyers. At the time, the EIB calculated that this 100% obligation was actually a blow to the housing market, and that a change like a significant reduction in that 100% would give a tremendous boost to the housing market. Does the Prime Minister, or else the Minister of Finance, wish to respond to this or to the next deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u90	That debate has indeed been held here. I was not there myself, but I remember the images of Mr Van Rooijen with his sunglasses. He looked even younger then. My compliments on how long he lasted. But that debate was, of course, held here. The cabinet takes a whole series of measures. Look at what this cabinet is doing in the area of mortgage interest relief. We are taking our measures, which we believe are necessary, in conjunction with the broader tax policy and fiscal package of the cabinet. It is my belief that this is a balanced package, aimed at the mortgage interest relief, at medium-sized homes, but also at broader taxation; see the scope for significantly reducing taxes on 1 January. The latter is partly due to the VAT measure, but there will also be a largely net reduction in the coming years from 5 to 6 billion, starting on 1 January. That is a good package in its cohesion. Add to this the fact that the policy that we need to conduct nationally is, in part, the mobilisation of civil society and organisations. That seems to work, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u91	But in fact my question was whether the Prime Minister, so this cabinet, would also be willing to look at the advantages and disadvantages, i.e. the budgetary effects, of possibly reducing that mandatory 100% repayment to a significantly lower percentage. A motion was also tabled by GroenLinks on this issue. This can reduce the affordability of young start-ups on this increasingly expensive market, as interest rates will also increase considerably, i.e. significantly. Moreover, it will give a great boost to construction production. Maybe we should have done that five years ago, in the crisis. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take a look at that, also in view of the motion by GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u92	We do not propose this as a cabinet. Then I always find it complicated to have all sorts of things calculated. The Chamber can also make a calculation itself. Is it not more advisable, then, that the Chamber itself should ask the Central Planning Office directly to calculate that? Otherwise, the cabinet will. Then we become a kind of scientific agency that calculates all kinds of variants that we are not for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u93	I don't really think that's an answer. I think we can expect the cabinet, of you, if we ask for further investigation, not to replay the ball with: you can do the same yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u94	I do not know when this motion has been tabled and adopted and whether it has been responded to. But I'd rather leave her with the trade minister. My first reaction is: if we are not going to do it ourselves, we are not going to do any calculations. Apparently, a motion has just been passed. It's possible. There's still to be responded to, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u95	Probably Mr Snels knows exactly what it's about when it comes to the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u96	Oh, yeah. I can explain. It was my first adopted motion, along with Elbert Dijkgraaf of the SGP. So it was also a remarkable coalition. He asked the cabinet to explore what it would mean, especially for the living expenses and rush hour of life, if you would reduce that 100% repayment obligation, because people could pay a lot more at the end of their career.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr. Hoekstra is about to go into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u98	The cabinet said it's gonna explore this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u99	Well, that's nice, isn't it? Then why are you asking me if you already have it in?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u100	So that's what the Minister of Finance will go into, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u101	Apparently, we've already agreed. Even better. The Minister of Finance is more common than I am. All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mr. Chairman. Just a few more things. The question of defence expenditure. The use of the extra resources that Defence receives is, of course, included in the Defence Note. This is used for resources, people, but also for manners. So it's about how you do things. What instrument do you need for that? Next Monday there will be a notation consultation with the Dutch Parliament. Mr Slootweg asked a question about the operation of the defence industry. The idea was apparently that the previous minister used the extra financial space mainly to improve the failing management and not to strengthen the basic rationale. My reaction is that you can't separate those two from each other. If the operation does not function properly, it will have immediate consequences for the readiness. The Court of Auditors notes in its 2017 Accountability Survey that the first signs of recovery are now, fortunately, also visible. Defence invests part of the additional resources in security officers and logistics functions. They were deleted from previous cuts, as we know. Of course, the Defence Note is not an end point, but a step that fits within the long lines set out, also within our international agreements. Everything now focuses on the implementation of these measures, including in the area of support. The Ministry of Finance is helping from its core responsibility, by ensuring efficient and effective use of public funds, thus also approving the spending plans, as well as by carrying out investigations, for example the research recently carried out to improve investment management and the ibo View of readiness, which appeared in 2017. Then the CDA, the same Mr Slootweg, asked a question about safety. What is the Minister's view of strengthening knowledge on this issue in the current planning agencies? After all, there was a thought about a separate safety planning agency. Could you put that with the existing planning agencies? I think we agree that there is no doubt about the importance of a good knowledge base. Safety departments have a knowledge base maintained by a range of knowledge networks at their disposal. Knowledge institutions and civil society organisations are, of course, also associated with and connected to the academic world. I do not think it would be good to set up a new planning agency, but I think it would be good to focus on strengthening the current knowledge infrastructure, including through a joint research book. It can then build on a number of knowledge programming pathways currently running interdepartmentally, in cooperation with external partners. All the relevant departmental partners will also be involved. The interfaces with current planning agencies are limited to some extent, but they are involved where possible. I would like to watch over the setting up of a new planning agency, which was not the question that was asked either, because in a few years' time you will have a clean-up of planning agencies, when I think we have just found a good balance. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg also asked whether we are now on the right track with regard to the finance and accountability of the JenV ministry. If you look at what JenV is doing with the "Justice and Security is changing" programme, which has been running for some time and has been initiated by the current Secretary-General, then I think you should note that this has helped the Ministry to overcome the imperfection with priority over the past few years. As a result, prior supervision by the Minister of Finance has also been significantly reduced. In the opinion of the General Court, the control function improved in 2017 in such a way that this imperfection has also expired. Of course, there will always be bumps and bumps. This will, of course, be reported to the Chamber. But my observation is that the program "JenV changes" that has started, which focuses on cultural change and on changes in daily processes, is beginning to succeed. You should also give these kinds of programs a chance for a few years. Mr. Chairman. The closure of police stations will reduce the number of police station locations by 60 by 2025, eventually moving towards a national network of approximately 575 police sites. That is less than 10% less than the current figure. So that number is falling, but a little less than 10%. It is, of course, dependent on market conditions which will result in the sale of these free-standing police stations. Working closer to the citizen is part of the conversation, including in the regions. The value of the closer functioning of the police is not easy to quantify in euros. That is why it is not possible to make a new calculation now. This question was from Mrs Leijten van de SP. A question has also been asked by Mr Stoffer of the SGP about the police. He says that the police have invested extra in recent years. The SGP says that accountability could and should be improved here too. They are curious whether the extra money has achieved the desired result. The answer to this is that the report "Police staff and resources" has been heavily invested, with the aim of carrying out the existing tasks. This is reflected in the multiannual estimate and in the budget, but also in the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Security, I think. Other investments by both this and the previous cabinet aim to improve capacity, training, quality improvement and equipment in the following areas. The report will be made to the Chamber in the annual report by the police. The Chamber is also, of course, informed by separate letters, for example on the Special Interventions Service, the DSI. The police are also trying to make the link between effects, results, activities and resources visible through a number of pilots, called ERAM pilots. The themes of these pilots are the approach to undermining, cybercrime and radicalisation. Mr President, I think that is how I answered the questions about police and defence. All the other questions lie in the area of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u104	However, Mr Tony van Dijck still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u105	It strikes me that the Prime Minister does not go into the 2017 purchasing power development at all. That was quite a setback. All Members of Parliament have said: the economy may be doing well and the money is plotting against the plinths of the finance minister, but the people in the country...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u106	Mr. Van Dijck, I understand the Minister of Finance is taking that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u107	All the answers are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u108	You have already asked that question, Mr Van Dijck, so you do not have to repeat it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u109	Okay, but this is a chefsache, so I'd still like to hear from the prime minister. Here he is pouring out a spider about the Dutch people: as if there were relief in this cabinet period. I would now like to have a clear answer to that, because the Secretary of State writes to us in response to questions: this cabinet period will eventually increase the burden of 3.4 billion in 2021. In the base path there is a burden increase of 9 billion. The cabinet is putting 6.5 billion in burden relief on that. The country's citizens will, on balance, receive a burden increase of 3.4 billion. Can the Prime Minister finally tell the honest story for once? He presents himself as the man of relief, but on balance he is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u110	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u111	The Minister of Finance is talking about this. That's our role-sharing. So I'm not going to go into it any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u112	Then you must never again say that the burden will be eased in this cabinet period, because that is an outright lie and an empty promise. That's how we know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u113	Well, we'll take another look at that. I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u114	My question was specifically about the ICT problems. I was talking about the leak that there was for three years at the Dutch Caribbean Office, the back door that was open. I asked the Prime Minister about the continuing problems with ICT in the government, because he was there at the time and because this is a constant point of criticism. I would like to ask him whether he would like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u115	No, that's what the Minister of Finance is talking about. So is the division of roles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u116	But I can ask the Prime Minister how he reflects on a back door that was open for three years, which has been warned? There could simply, by anyone, be messed up in our government. Isn't that what this Prime Minister is responsible for? Doesn't he feel responsible for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u117	I feel responsible for everything, but we have a division of roles in the debate and I hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u118	I think it's really weird. Prompt with beautiful things if you can, but with the big flatters you send a new finance minister out, while you are responsible for what has happened over the past eight years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u119	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Before I go into the questions that have been asked, I say that as Minister of Finance, I appreciate this debate very much, given what we are doing today. Today it is a question of controlling the executive, in other words the cabinet. That is one of the most important tasks of parliament in a democracy. As I said last week, it is of course true that I was only 67 days Minister of Finance in the previous calendar year. I believe that Mr Azarkan has calculated it and that he has arrived at 66.5 days. But that does not mean, of course, that I do not want to take full responsibility here. Last week, of course, there was a lot of good news to report. That was also endorsed by the Court of Auditors. There is a very high degree of legitimacy in terms of expenditure and revenue. In doing so, the Court of Auditors spoke of 'unparalleled high'. There is also a very strong economy and a strong decline in debt. But there are also things that don't go well or that don't go well. The Court has rightly asked many questions, both orally and in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u121	Perhaps you could take us in on how you built up your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u122	I just got there, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u123	Okay, then that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u124	I was just about to say that an impressive amount of questions were fired, even during the debate. I am referring, of course, not only to quantity but also to quality. I want to do it like this: 1. public finances, 2. the things that the Court of Auditors has said about ICT, 3. efficiency, 4. the Tax Administration, 5. purchasing power and 6. a rich variety of others. But first I would like to thank Mr Nijboer, the Court of Auditors and the CBS for what they have done in recent months. Mr. Chairman. So I will start with point 1, public finances. Many Members have referred to the economy, to the unemployment rate which fell even further last year and this year, the growth rate of 3.2% and the budget that looks good. That's all true. There is much good in the economy, but I would like to point out that we have a very open and very volatile economy. If things are going well in the world and in Europe, then things are going very well in the Netherlands, but we can also remember the opposite from the recent past. Mr Slootweg, Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Van der Linde asked specifically: is the treasury well? The honest answer is yes and no. I'm better. We were partly helped by a very low interest rate. Mr Van Rooijen asked: what's the point? It is, of course, because of the balance between income and expenditure, and it is also because of the very low rate of interest. It is good to recall that we paid more than 6 billion in interest last year and that we are now just under 60%, 57% to be exact. Before the crisis, that was 43%. In this light, Mr Sneller rightly pointed out that future generations do not have a voice and that we certainly need to involve them in our deliberations. Mr Snels then asked about this 1.4 billion under-exhaustment, whether these were all windfalls and whether that amount could be completely amended. I believe that we have already had an exchange of views on this matter. In my opinion, Mr Snels also knows that the 1% limit can simply be taken into account. That is precisely to reduce that autumn fever, that December fever, and to ensure that that money remains available. The Chamber is free to table amendments. I would also like to say something about Mr Slootweg, who specifically asked about IenW and Defence. We have a specific agreement with them, because they are often long-term projects, which means that much higher amounts can be taken into account. That is precisely to ensure that projects can be planned in a sensible way. In the same category, Mr. Stoffer asked about the granaries of King Josef and whether they should not be more full. In fact, I think we should be very reluctant to get the idea that we would now suddenly have money left. It looks very nice now, but as I said earlier, we are at a very different point in terms of total debt than before the crisis, and the interest charges of over 6 billion are now, among other things, so low because of the low interest rates. If the economy is going to be less well and the interest rate is going to rise, then the amount of money that we have lost in interest is going to increase dramatically every year. Mr Baudet asked whether we have pursued additional policies to lower public debt. That is not the case. Mr Baudet is undoubtedly familiar with the trend in budgeting, which is the policy pursued by the previous cabinet and which is also in this cabinet. Then Mr Nijboer asked about the gas building. He also asked about that amount of the 50 billion we have in the ground. That is indeed, he is right, the estimation of the total value of the unclaimed gas from the Groningen field. I'm trying to say it as accurately as I can. On the basis of the current agreements, the State receives 85% to 90% of the proceeds. The NAM is and will remain responsible as an operator for the damage caused by the earthquakes. At the moment, the cabinet is negotiating with Shell and Exxon about the new design of the gas building. I cannot and do not want to say anything about that, otherwise I will really get in the way of Mr Wiebes. I suspect that Mr Nijboer still wanted to have an insight into what will come soon, but not today, namely the Spring Note. Of course, it's a good thing he's trying to get me an answer after all. He's not the only one, by the way, but I still have to wait until I get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u126	The latter is a bit tricky because it was leaked, at least not by the opposition. There are appointments on the street that don't come from us. I do have so much experience now that I think they will certainly be true, otherwise they were not so widely confirmed. But my question is about the 50 billion that stays in the ground. The Minister is clear about that. 85% to 90% would be state income. The Minister's meeting is about to take place. Before these talks are concluded, will he explain the relationship between gas extraction and the 50 billion until 2030? There remains gas for 50 billion in the ground, but of course there is much more there. What are the appointments? What is the ratio between what the State gets until 2030 of that yield, which is 85% to 90%, but how much is that? And what do these companies get? Only then will the Chamber be able to assess what the agreements are now, what the new agreements will be and what the financial consequences will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u127	Just for the record, the leaking point: Mr Nijboer is the last person I accuse of it. I've also annoyed myself with green and yellow. Mr Nijboer will accept that from me. I think that, as a cabinet, we have been thinking a long time about it, and we have really made a sensible decision. We said we just want to turn off that gas tap, so we just want to go down after 2023. There are several forecasts for this and Mr Wiebes is in the process of doing so. I am going to give you an insight into that, at least for the part for which this can already be done in the spring note, but until then I really need to ask Mr Nijboer for patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u128	As long as I get that insight. I don't care about those few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u129	Before Mr Nijboer comes back to me deeply disappointed: we will at least give some of the insight. I fear that it will take some of the gas dossier, also because of the volatility and the various parts that are in it, a long time before it is finally vibrated and we can really share it with the Chamber all the way to the decimal place, but we will do so as much as possible and in the spring note I will at least give some insight into this, in terms of the crane. Mr. Chairman. That was block one, the budget. Then I come to block 2, everything the Court of Auditors has said about ICT. Let me be honest: it is right that many of the Members have asked questions about this. The legality of it, I recalled, is already very high. The number of deficiencies detected by the Court of Auditors goes down, if you look at them for a long time, but there are two serious shortcomings and there is a whole series of imperfections that relate to IT or IT security. So that's just a subject that needs our attention. I shall now turn to a large number of questions, including those from Mr Van der Linde. He asked in particular about the motion by his colleague Mr Aukje de Vries and the conclusion thereof. Let me also say to Mr Van der Linde that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, with whom I have had contact before this debate, and I have heard your Chamber very well. The Chamber believes that the cabinet should focus more heavily on ICT and information security. Much has been done in recent years. It is also true that it is extremely complicated for many institutions, private and public, to do well, and yet it has to be done even better by the government. It has to be fundamentally better. I would like to assure Mr Van der Linde that I will also take up this point with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. She will return to the Chamber after the summer with very specific new proposals on ICT and information security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u130	Of course, that's wonderful, but my question went a little further. We know that ICT is incredibly complicated and that we can never solve everything immediately, but that security is something that comes back to us very hard at some point if something goes wrong. I would simply like to have solved the security problems that the Court of Auditors has now seen this year. That is not just a matter for the coordinating minister. All individual ministers are fully responsible for this. So that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u131	I very much agree with the VVD, with Mr Van der Linde. I think that we, the Prime Minister and I, also with this intensity, will simply take back to the Council of Ministers the intensity with which Mr Van der Linde asks me this question and others have asked this question, because he is right. Of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has an overarching responsibility, but at the same time it is the responsibility of all ministers individually and thus also of all individual secretaries-general. There just needs to be more on it. I agree with him. I will take that encouragement to heart and I will also put it to colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u132	Will it help the Minister if I make another motion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u133	Those are the questions you can only answer with "it depends," because that depends very much on what is in that motion. Well, at least let me take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u134	On this point, perhaps the motion will be superfluous. I would, however, like to get a note back which states what kind of plan of action will follow if the Minister has discussed it with his colleagues in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u135	After I've discussed it, you mean? Yeah, that doesn't seem much more than reasonable to me. I think the discussion should be about what we are going to do about it as a cabinet in general and what the Minister of Foreign Affairs sees as her system responsibility. Of course, I can only speak for her in part. Where does system responsibility stop and start responsibility for individual ministers? That is how I understood Mr Sneller. I would like to make one more warning note towards the Chamber. As much as I agree with this, one of the things that struck me when I read the Court's reports, and also when I reflect on the conversation I had with the President and Members of the Court of Auditors, is the following. The imperfections you have on your pants, you don't usually solve in one year. I think it is quite right for the Chamber to say that the cabinet should do more about this, but I do not want to suggest that all the ICT problems will be resolved next year. Then we'll really get cheated, even if we just focus on information security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u137	Then Mr Nijboer asked how the cabinet looks at the use of algorithms. That is a very logical and twenty-first century question. The State Secretary of BZK is investigating this and will inform the Chamber in the second half of 2018. Mr Van der Linde, Mr Slootweg, Mr Sneller and Mr Nijboer asked why we hire so few ICTs and why there is so much external hire. In the summer of 2017, an investigation was carried out into the bottlenecks related to ICT personnel. The Chamber was informed of this in December. There are bottlenecks. There is a shortage of ICT users throughout the market, including in the private market. Sometimes the expertise required is so specialised that the government does not have these people. As a result, the expenditure standard for external hire is sometimes exceeded. In this light, Mr Van Rooijen also asked why we do not scale ICT users higher. What he's just right about is this. At the beginning and in the middle of the wage building, ICTs have relatively limited differences between the public and private sectors. But if you go from the middle segment to the higher segment, the differences for comparable work sometimes become 50%, 60%, 70%, ascending to 100%. They're just very big differences. That certainly makes it difficult for the government to attract people at a time of scarcity in high economics. Where that is the case, at least the Tax Administration will, but I think it is more comprehensive, examine how we can better use the existing national instruments to remain attractive as an employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u138	One of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors is to attract permanent staff on essential functions. I do not read that so much in the reactions of the ministers. If that is not possible in the market, then I think we have a huge point. It is therefore recommended to employ permanent staff and to do so on a market-based basis. Is that possible? I'd like an answer to that. The Court of Auditors says that it should be possible. Is it hard right now, but can you get those people if you reward them on the market, or are there so few people that you can't? I hope the Minister can shed more light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u139	I think Mr Slootweg acknowledges that you have very different functions within IT. It matters very much whether people understand application development or infrastructure or any specialty. As much as we want people to be hired as much as possible in the first place and, in addition, to pay people a reasonable, but not regal, salary, I think that Mr Van Rooijen points out something that is wrong. That's why I just said that. The differences between the market and the public sector are very large in this respect for very comparable work. The work of an ICT citizen at the Empire is very similar to that in the private sector. This is different from, for example, a policy officer, who has a very different type of work and a different type of responsibility than in the private sector. So I cannot answer that in a generic way. I think we should take this with us and report back on it. I'm afraid the answer might be complicated. See also my reply from just now to Mr Van Rooijen. Then I come to Mrs Leijten's question and others on the Caribbean Netherlands Rijkdienst. In doing so, the Court of Auditors indeed finds a serious flaw. I think he has quite rightly put his finger on the sore spot there. It is good to report that an in-depth risk analysis has taken place, that there was no risk of access to personal data and that there is no evidence that unauthorised persons have entered data from companies and citizens of the BES Islands. I have specifically asked for this point, because I think this is a very legitimate concern. I had it myself when I was reading about these imperfections. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm at block 3, efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u140	I asked in my term how it could happen that Logius has 50% external hire for certain tasks, while we as a Chamber have adopted a motion. It is popularly called, or at least here in the Chamber, the Roemer motion. A much lower percentage has been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u141	I don't think I have that particular case at hand here. I'm just gonna browse through it real quick. I have a global answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u142	The second term is fine, but I'd like to hear it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u143	I would like to be specific, precisely because the percentage is so much higher than 10%. So I will return to Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u144	Yeah, that's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u145	I am on the next subject, which also has my personal interest, as part of the Chamber knows by now. This is either efficiency, or the effective use of resources. That is a very right point that Mr Sneller and a number of others have raised. I must add that it is also a very complicated subject. As the Prime Minister said a moment ago, it is complicated to measure exactly what policy is about. That is quite apart from the question that Mr Snels asked, namely: what do you want to achieve at all? On this subject, I am going to send a letter to the Chamber before the summer, with an impetus for an approach. I myself would very much like to talk to the Chamber about how we can work together on this, as far as we can, given our different responsibilities. There have been similar pathways in the 1980s in which Cabinet, Chamber and in that case also Court of Auditors merged to a significant extent. Is that in the form of a rapporteurship, as Mr Sneller and Mr Snels do in terms of benefits and burdens? Maybe. Maybe it's another formula, too. To be honest, I would like to talk to the Chamber about this, because I think it will help to make a good step forward. Then the political weighting is really back to the different parties. That is what I think Mr Sneller means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u146	This year, the Court of Auditors has made an extra big point of integrated accountability. In a committee debate, we also discussed the concept of Operation Understanding Quality. Does the Minister see room for taking on this broader and perhaps somewhat more long-term, and integrating it into the other elements mentioned by several speakers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u147	Maybe. Then the question is: in what time? The Operation Understanding Quality is perhaps a bit of a misnomer, because you not only want the insight but you also want to do something about the quality. I really think we should make sure that we don't tie everything up with everything and then we don't have anything. So we need to look very closely at how we can achieve a step-by-step result in the coming years. I think I understand exactly where Mr Sneller is going with this. I would like to take that with me, but I want to be careful to promise that we will have achieved that next year. That may well be very difficult in such a relatively short period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u148	I understand that very well. That's why I reminded you of the operation Comptable. That surgery could take seven, eight or nine years. That is what we all agree on. But it could be motivating and stimulating if we had all that perspective. Then we all understand that it will take some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u149	I think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u150	That's nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u151	Very specific, then. Mr Sneller and I are somewhat in agreement on this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u152	I noticed that, Mr. Chairman. The tandem's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u153	You want to make pace; then it also helps if you bike together. The Minister has promised that there will be a plan of action in the Operation Understanding on Quality. That is what we are eagerly waiting for. But this is also about some sort of vision that should be there on how we could improve the quality of accountability. Could the Minister look at all the other pieces of puzzles in the plan of action? That does not have to be fully thought out on all points, because it is a long-term process. For example, the Compatibility Act 3.1 is important in this respect. I understand that the Minister wants to focus on Understanding Quality, but let him also see what this could mean for the adjacent areas. Just a vision building and a debate development. In this way, let us take this one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u154	I hear the word "vision formation." I look to the right and I see that the Prime Minister has left us for a moment. Let me not take advantage of this opportunity to say things that he did not want to commit to just now. I do not think that is wise given the unity of government policy. However, I very much agree with Mr Snels that the Compatibility Act and the ex-ante want to check what legislation ultimately produces are, of course, a very important part. I would, however, like to be very careful, precisely because we know that this is very complex and that the answer is probably different by ministry and also by policy area, while one can be relatively short-term and the other lasts forever, which we overpromise at this stage. I would rather we put something on the road where we will be reaping the benefits of this over the next few years, about the content of which the Chamber may then of course differ greatly, between ourselves and with the cabinet, then that I now promise something which then dies in beauty. That's my main concern in Operation Understanding Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u156	In this category, Mr Azarkan's question as to whether the system of responsible budgeting should be evaluated. The Court of Auditors has already announced that it will investigate responsible budgeting this year. I'd like to wait and see. Perhaps there is good news for Mr Azarkan as well. The VVD asked about the subsidies and the problem of subsidies at VWS. Who is responsible and what problems do we solve, and is there also the possibility to recover? This recovery, of course, depends very much on the precise legal content of the subsidy. Therefore, it is important that a proper appraisal and a good design of the subsidy scheme are made in advance. This brings us back to the subject on which we have just discussed an interruption. In March, I sent the Chamber the cabinet response on the IBO grant report. We'll take it from here. This will make the money more efficient. However, this remains a focus of attention. A number of questions have been asked about benefits and burdens. I believe that the cabinet has tried to take a sensible step forward, but it wants to take the whole process towards 2020 step by step. If I am not mistaken, almost 120 questions have come from the Chamber on this subject. I would not like to contaminate the quality of the answer by saying something about it quickly. I ask Mr Sneller and some others whether they can agree that we should ensure that the answers to those questions are with the Chamber by the end of June. The Monitor Brede Prosperity did the Prime Minister. I put Mr Snels' puzzle pieces together. Mr Van der Linde also asked about the puzzle pieces. And I've had the Compatibility Act, too. Then I am with Mr Slootweg who asked for sheltered work and how we are going to justify this policy. The means for accompaniment of sheltered work are part of the integration benefit social domain. These are freely available for municipalities. Given Mr Slootweg's history, I suspect he is also very aware of that. However, as of 1 January 2017, municipalities are obliged to offer sheltered work as required. The current state of affairs as regards the number of advice for sheltered work indicated by the UWV, we regularly report to the Chamber. The number of places for sheltered work that municipalities realize is recorded in the Statistics Re-integration by Municipalities. That's what the Minister of SZW reports on. Mr President, I think I have been complete. Then several parties, Mr Slootweg of the CDA, but also Mr Bruins, Mr Snels and Mr Stoffer, asked about the reintegration budget and how we can ensure that we get more insight. That is a very fair question, precisely at the point of: what is working, regardless of what you have political differences about it? I myself discussed this with SZW's colleague. He also very much agrees with the House that we need to understand that. The distribution of the reintegration budget into pre-financed and budget-financed expenditure is reported in both the draft budget and the departmental annual reports. Information on expenditure on reintegration can also be found in the UWV Annual Report. As has already been announced in the administrative response to the Court of Auditors' report, we need to see whether this information can be published more coherently, because there is room for improvement, carefully formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u157	This could just be another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u158	That's what I'm here for, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u159	This is information that's all there. It should not be so complicated in terms of assignment to pool this information and improve the understanding of next year's annual report. Can the Court expect that in next year's annual report the understanding of the organisations at a distance is much better than this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u160	Of course, it's always nice to promise something you don't have to worry about yourself. However, in order to give the Minister of SZW some room for manoeuvre and to save Mr Snels a motion, let me check with my colleague from SZW whether that is possible, what insight can then be provided and at what time to inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u161	Of course, it wasn't just about SZW. The Court made the observation that, in fact, there is little understanding or overview of how much public money is involved in all these organisations across the broad spectrum of remote organisations or legal entities with legal functions. That is a little more a task for the Minister of Finance. Effectiveness and efficiency then belong to the trade ministers. So there's some kind of division of labour in there. For both, the task could be to improve that for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u162	I really want to be careful there. That really is a potential mer à boire. It's a huge amount of data and it's really hard to get it up there. I very much agree with Mr Snels that insight and quality should be given a place in the coming years. But, if I may say so, I can think of ten more subjects, whether they are schools, municipalities or any other institutions where you would like to have more insight, where you would like to have comparability and where you could ask the question: how do we actually spend that money? How do we get social added value from the investments we make on behalf of citizens? But the broadening of the scope to all these organizations I really don't want to, because then I'm really going to overpromise. I've already given the Minister of SZW part of the problem. Actually, that's what I was gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u163	One final comment, Mr. Snels, because you also have a second term. Maybe you can get there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u164	Sure, but I want to be clear and not bother the Minister with motions. I want to say two things. Firstly, the Court of Auditors says that this information is available, but it is not clear. How much public money is involved in all these organizations? That's the first thing. Secondly, these organisations must report to directors themselves whether they are dealing effectively and effectively with their policies. In my view, this also follows from Article 4.2 of the Compatibility Act. So the cabinet could at least take stock of whether that information is there. I'm narrowing down the assignment a little bit. Then we can see what the next assignment should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u165	I can imagine a great deal in myself at the ease with which Mr Snels loads my basket fuller and fuller with great enthusiasm, but I want to be careful here. The President of the Court of Auditors has said to me on this particular point: you do not realize half the work it has done to pull this insight together from all angles. To keep Mr Snels off my back at the moment, it is of course nice to say so, but if it is a bit lucky we will see each other again next year. Then I want a good answer, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u166	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u167	Mr. Chairman. I was at OCW and the student estimates. The CDA asked about that: one time there's a windfall and the other time there's a setback; how do we do that? I understand the question. Many factors play a role in these estimates, more than just demography. Competition plays a role, as does developments of in-, transit and outflow across the different sectors of education. I think it is good to say to Mr Slootweg that these estimates are validated externally by a committee of experts from CBS, CPB and SCP, among others. And that deviation is, of course, about large numbers in absolute terms and therefore also about relatively large amounts of money, but compared to the total it is really a very small percentage. It is therefore perhaps appropriate to place it in the broader context of this problem. I do not know if there is still so much room for improvement, how much I naturally recommend it. Mr. Chairman. I've had a lot of money and a lot of burdens. I'll be at block four.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u168	Taxes. The IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u169	What did you say, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u170	Taxes, I think. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u171	Absolutely. Mr. Chairman. The flaws at the IRS. Let me be very honest about that. The problems at the Tax Office are large, complex and persistent. I have said this before, and the Secretary of State has said it very clearly here. These problems have to do with IT, humanization and reporting. That's what we're working on with man and power. The Secretary of State is also very motivated to achieve maximum progress. Real progress is being made; see also one of the shortcomings that has been resolved. At the same time, this is really a long-term issue. That is also what the Court of Auditors says to the Chamber and to me. Let us be absolutely clear: the problems we see now will really remain with us for years, even if one imperfection is finished. I think it is important not to be gloomy, but just to be honest and transparent towards the Chamber about how the flag hangs there. I know that the Chamber has a regular exchange of views with the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The PVV asked if the Investment Agenda of the Tax Administration should become a major project. I believe that Mr Omtzigt has sometimes asked the same question to the Secretary of State. There are, of course, all kinds of agreements with the Chamber about reporting. I think that Mr Van Dijck's question itself really belongs in the debate with the Secretary of State, which I believe will take place again in a week or two weeks' time. It is also good to recall that the Court of Auditors notes that the contours of a new business structure of the Tax Administration are becoming visible, and that there is therefore also positive news in that. But I can imagine the question of Mr Van Dijck and Mr Omtzigt. We all know that there are advantages and disadvantages in classifying as a major project, but I am not in advance dismissive of that. So I think I really should have a word with the Secretary of State on this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u172	I have another question in the context of the major project. I asked that question because the Secretary of State announced in his last letter that he would report once a year. Mr Wiebes himself stated in the last debate on the Tax Administration that he regretted that no major project had been made earlier. In other words, a large project puts a little more pressure on the boiler with regard to the reporting obligation, but also gives us as a Chamber more the opportunity to keep the finger on the wrist, to see how things are going. We need to get all the problems out of the paper now and then they've already happened, while when we're periodically informed about where we stand, what's going on and if it's solved... In 2017, 500 people were expected to be hired. Well, that's 322.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u173	Clear, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u174	All that sort of thing justifies a big project. I'm glad the Minister is so positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u175	Mr Van Dijck's interruption gives me the opportunity to add one more thing. There's a reason why I'm not indifferent to it. I see the disadvantages, but also the advantages. I also really see the logic in the wish of the Chamber to be informed about it. But I would also like to repeat one thing that the Court of Auditors has said to me: it is also in the interest of the Tax Administration that he can solve the problems without the fact that incidents, which of course also occasionally appear in the news, are a constant cause for change. I would therefore like to ask the Chamber, partly on behalf of the Secretary of State, for some understanding on this point. I fully understand the need to be able to control and be informed. But I think we all really want us to solve the problems at the IRS. This means that we must also be able to look beyond the problems that sometimes come up. I think Mr Van Dijck agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u176	Will the Minister come back to the Tax Administration in general? Or did he finish the subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u177	I still have a lot of questions to answer in the area of the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u178	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u179	I suggest you answer those questions first. Then Mr Van Rooijen will have the opportunity to ask a question. So I don't count this question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u180	Let me put Mr Van Rooijen on top of the pile. He asked me what I think of the idea of a separate minister for the IRS. If I thought that would really help, I'd think about it. But I do not think that is the solution to the problem. Previously, external partners, including Mr Borstlap, and now the Court of Auditors, said: 'The problems have been mapped out. Just go step by step with the implementation. Continue on the path that has been set in motion. Hang in there. It's a long-term issue. And make sure you don't get distracted, either in the field of IT, in the field of people, or in the field of reporting. Those will be things that will obviously go wrong as you try to make that move." So I think it is a charming idea, but I do not think it is a solution to the problem, as I say in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck asked about the costs. Perhaps it would be best if I sent him a more detailed state of affairs in writing. But the bottom line is that between 2014 and 2017, with the Investment Agenda in total, 481 million was spent cumulatively on the influx of staff, projects and the departure scheme. I'd be happy to give him a more detailed insight if that helps him. Mr. Chairman. The CDA asked if the new top structure has already been established by the Tax Administration. The answer to that is yes. I do not see Mr Slootweg anymore, but given the answer it may be less problematic. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party asked: should or should not there be more money to the Tax Office? We're making extra money available. That is, I think, a valid observation in itself. The under-utilisation of the Tax Administration's operating budgets should be seen in the broader context, namely the launch of the Investment Agenda in 2015, the outflow of staff and the review of the Investment Agenda in 2017. All this, so the departure of people, the delay in hiring new people and the delay in IT, has led to a short-term underexhaustment. I have been involved in this subject on a regular basis and I have explicitly asked the Tax Office if money is the problem. They say, no, money is not the problem. The problem is the three-stroke of ICT, people and reporting. Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan asked if the Secretary of State and I have a credible plan to solve the problems in the Tax Office. As far as I'm concerned, we certainly do. But to the extent that Mr Azarkan would doubt the quality of my answer, I can say that is also the view of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors also says that the problems have been identified and the road itself is clear. But it is a long and complicated road. I think I'm a long way from asking questions about the IRS. Mr Slootweg asked whether the problem in the primary processes is so great that the introduction of new charges is at risk. I have no reason or concrete evidence to believe that this would be the case. However, we all see that every time politics has a very valid new wish in itself, the service has to get back to work very hard to facilitate it. That is the reality of today. But at the moment there is no reason to think that anything goes wrong. Then I think I'm out of the Tax Department block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u181	Also through the block about Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u182	In the block of Van Rooijen there are several subs, but they are also about other topics. I hope that Mr Van Rooijen will be adequately served on the matters relating to the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u183	All right, I will give Mr Van Rooijen the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u184	I asked the question about a separate minister or secretary of state for the IRS. I and you, as a member of the cabinet, do not miss the fact that in the United States and Security and Justice there are three government officials, with two of them wearing ministers' hats in both departments. Finance is not only the crown jewel, it must be, but it is also the most heavily taxed. Then it is very strange that, of course, the toughest department with the biggest problem, namely the Tax Office, should do it with one minister who is a lot abroad and a Secretary of State who should come here all year round mainly for cabinet legislation and for the wishes of the Chamber. I won't talk about the past, but you can assume that I think it's a heroic task. I would ask the Minister to reconsider that. It might help solve the problem. I have another question after the answer to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u185	I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen very much for thinking along and also for keeping my existence bearable. That's what he used to remind me of. It is true, in itself, that Mr Van Rooijen is right in saying that if you compare the amount of problems that are currently bubbling up with the Secretary of State who are dealing with the Tax Administration with the amount of problems that a former Secretary of State who was present here at the beginning of the last century, which is a gap of one percent or eighty. In his time, I think it was almost never about implementation, just about legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u186	I have to remember the beginning of the last century. That was a long time ago, but that aside. But I don't really have an answer yet. Why wouldn't you consider it? I shall now turn to my second question. The cabinet has a tough legislative programme. Last week, for example, we discussed the fiscal agenda a little bit and it all comes down to autumn. This will give the Tax Administration a major additional problem in implementation, especially if we make it even more complicated with amendments. That is quite apart from all the time it takes to introduce it a year later. I was very critical of Wiebes. That didn't do me any favors, not even for him personally. But I've been hard hit by the fact that a double function doesn't work. If someone always has to be in the Chamber for legislation and also has the responsibility for the Tax Administration and the implementation of tax reforms, and if someone has to paddle between the First and Second Chambers to get majorities, as we have experienced, it always comes at the expense of one or the other. And in this case, that was the IRS. That's just proven. What is wrong with considering having, for this period, temporarily, a separate ruler for the Tax Office in order to resolve more quickly the concerns that the Court of Auditors, we as a Chamber and you too, have? Because the attention and time of you and the Secretary of State are simply limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u187	I don't want to interfere, Mr Van Rooijen, but isn't this an issue that will be taken up during the elections, the formation of a new government and the distribution of posts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u188	I think that is a very good question from you, because I have in the election campaign...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u189	I'll give it to you for the next election.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u190	I will tell you: in the election campaign, I was the only one in all kinds of fiscal debates with colleagues in the making who advocated a separate ruler for the Tax Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u191	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u192	The moment Rutte IV sees the light of day, I will make sure that the reformer thinks of Mr Van Rooijen's vitality in this light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u193	And goes to Mr Van Rooijen. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u194	I would just like to say to Mr Van Rooijen that I very much share the compliments the Prime Minister has already expressed on his vitality. I mean that sincerely. Mr President, I myself thought that I had already finished the Tax Service block, but I think that Mrs Leijten feels differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u195	Of course, the Tax Administration stands for a lot of effort. It will certainly have to regain the confidence of the Chamber. We'll discuss that with the Secretary of State. But look at the equipment costs of the IRS. There will be half a billion between 2017, the year we are talking about, and 2022. What exactly is it in?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u196	That's a good question. It is true: about half a billion goes off when we compare 2022 to 2017. The main cause is the set of booked reduction targets of the investment agenda. In addition, the additional budgets for projects and influxes on the investment agenda have not always been taken into account in the budgets after 2017. If we see a problem, we all have, by the way, a tendency to ask ourselves whether extra money is needed, especially in the case of problems as persistent as those of the Tax Office. That's what happened in the past. But when the Secretary of State and I ask the Tax Office, the answer is that money is not the problem. For that reason, you also see underexhaustment. It is important to make every effort to get the right people in and, now that we know where they are, to deal with the IT problems. We also need to get the third part: this so wildly complicated reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u197	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u198	I understand the answer and yet I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the following. If you, as an organization in such a major reorganisation, encounter problems which cause leaks, I mentioned among other things those in the field of collection, staffing, ICTs, and you know that one sixth of the equipment costs goes off, it casts a shadow ahead. It's gonna be in people's heads. As a result, you take on more flexible staff and you don't make certain investments. How does that weigh the Minister in view of the challenges we have with the Tax Administration? Wouldn't it be a good thing to say it's nice if it could be cheaper, but that the Tax Office gets the assurance that the shadow of the cuts it's a sixth, huh? You're not gonna hang over him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u199	Again, I really understand Mrs Leijten's concern, but I am also trying to base myself on the information that the Secretary of State and the Tax Administration themselves give back to me. In general, I am very careful about the expenditure that the various ministers are allowed to spend. But if, at some point in the future, we really are not talking about this year and next year, we really need additional investments for, for example, continuity, then I do not think there would be any discussion about that in the cabinet. That's what we need to have a conversation about. But it is not for nothing that the Secretary of State, also in the documents on controlled renewal that he sent to the Chamber, said that we should be careful at the Tax Office for over-extension. Let's try not to do everything at once. Perhaps I should add one more thing to my previous reply to Mrs Leijten. After checking, spending plans are transferred to the Tax Administration. I would like to ask whether Mrs Leijten can get an exact overview of this through the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u200	Everyone's worried about the IRS. I'm not unique in that. In the Court of Auditors' reports you can also read that it is actually getting stuck. At the same time, there is a work package reduction, as it is called in these reorganisation terms, which means that half a billion people have to be coughed up. That can't go well. Of course, you've lost your money and the problems are even bigger if you spend 7 million on it and you let everyone leave early. Money is not the only solution. I think it is the other way round, so the fiscal pressure on the Tax Administration to cut back another half a billion is a real problem if there are too few staff, they cannot get people and they cannot get rid of the investments. Of course, the summit says: we cannot ask for more and more money, we have to stay within the budget, otherwise... I have genuine concerns about that. In this respect, I think that the idea of a major project is gradually becoming necessary. We've given five years to put things in order, but it's just not in order yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u201	I think that we are all in complete agreement that, knowing that there is man and power in the Tax Administration, there is simply cause for concern. Not for nothing have I said again today: the problems at the Tax Office are great, complex and persistent. I would also like to be completely honest about what the Court of Auditors says about it. That is an important addition to what Mr Nijboer says. The Court of Auditors says that the problems are better understood, one of the shortcomings has been resolved, almost all other shortcomings have been taken forward and the direction is good. For the record, that's a long way from getting us there. I share that very much with Mr Nijboer. But the Court of Auditors doesn't say, "Dear Minister of Finance, why don't you pull the pouch?" You can't find that in those reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u202	Well, the Court of Auditors does say: it is really just the question of how real the austerity objective is and whether it does not create greater problems. That's what this is all about, and they explicitly point out that. I get that very well, because a she's not being made, and b she's putting pressure on that organization. Here comes the other discussion I have with the Secretary of State: there is very little and less control, especially in SMEs and large businesses, but also in private individuals. If you're gonna invest in that, you're gonna need more people. That is a political discussion, but I am also in favour of it. It's gonna be even harder. All that together, if you send away half a billion people at the same time when you actually want to invest in it, and the pressure that that puts makes me say: look at it again. I also think that the Court should gradually have more influence on decisions of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u203	I was just trying to make a real distinction. That is why I tried to be so specific towards Mrs Leijten. If money is to become the problem in the future, we must talk about it with each other. As a cabinet we will have to have that among ourselves and also as a chamber. At the moment we are dealing with under-spending and in the projection for next year we also think we are seeing under-spending again. So I understand the question and I am happy to be available for it, but I think Mr Nijboer also understands from me that I can now make a tough commitment for a later year, but that it does not have much value to say anything about it if I have any money at the moment. I'll share the concerns he expresses. Mr President, I would like to refer to Chapter Five, the purchasing power. The Prime Minister has already said a number of things, not about purchasing power, but about wage development and prosperity. Let me not repeat all that; I will mention a few things. Let me perhaps start with the differences between the two purchasing power tables, because I fully understand that they lead to confusion. As I understand it, the previous cabinet has just sent out the table with the median. We just have to be honest about the fact that the purchasing power figures are disappointing for all of us. Is it strange that the previous cabinet made that assessment at the time? Not at all, as far as I'm concerned. We have made the best possible assessment, but inflation was considerably higher. You can see that in that table. The standard households do not contain a number of elements that are in that median: the childcare allowance, the mortgage interest deduction and the rent allowance, for example. That explains the difference. The figures with this median are still less beautiful than the previous cabinet had expected and hoped, but look a lot better than the standard households.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u204	Mr Snels, I had to check, but you may ask one question on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u205	As far as I am concerned, it may also be written. The differences are very large. I can't imagine they're just median differences. In the figures for Koolmees, there is generally a decline in almost all income groups. Those figures and the financial figures are both based on the same basis. Both are about realizations. As far as I am concerned, it is fine to explain in writing what the differences are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u206	Let me do that anyway. In the past, these two numbers were presented together, so I can imagine the confusion. The difference between these two tables lies in the three categories I mentioned: childcare allowance, mortgage interest deduction and rent allowance. That makes a significant difference. But let me seize this suggestion with both hands. In my view, this is a subject that is best explained by two tables and an overview of the differences. This is true of the differences in purchasing power. Mr Van Dijck and others asked what the effect would be. At these medians, you can see that purchasing power has increased, but less than we had hoped for with each other. I also share Mr Van Dijck's disappointment on this point. On average, purchasing power has increased by 0.3%. 63% of households have thus also improved. But we had expected and hoped more. Mr Van Dijck and, above all, Mrs Leijten asked: what can you do to ensure that purchasing power increases faster? The ambitions on that point in the coalition agreement are clear. We really want everyone to benefit from the economic recovery. The reduction in charges that we have in store for next year will certainly help this, as will, of course, the continuation of economic growth. Let us be realistic: this year's forecasts may be disappointing again, but you will see an even stronger growth of, for example, wages in the forecasts for this year compared to last year. I think I have gone through the most important questions in terms of purchasing power. Then I have a rich cup of "other" to go. The first question is from Mr Van Rooijen, who asked if I could quantify which part of the 10 billion higher public revenue is the result of the increase in inflation. I'm saying it with regret, but that's inexplicable. I don't really have a good counterfactual for that. I'd love to do that with him, but I can't do that. Mr Van der Linde asked me about the ECB and about a widening monetary policy. I know Mr Van der Linde's views. I think I know the views of the whole Chamber on this interesting and complex dossier. I think the Chamber also knows my answer: I like to give an insight into the total amount. Last time we spoke, I think it was 2,300 billion. Now the counter is at 2,400 billion order. Immediately afterwards, I rush to say that the ECB is independent. I would stress that it is a good thing that we have an independent central bank and that we do not have a finance minister who is actively involved in this. That really is a scenario that may seem attractive, but it will not turn out to be. Mr. Snels asked why I did not mention the Monitor Brede Prosperity in my speech at Accountability Day. The answer isn't complicated. The Monitor wasn't published at the time, so he'll forgive me. Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Rooijen then took a trip to Italy. For the record, I have said that there is cause for concern. In the newspaper and the headline I saw, the word "warning" came back. At least I didn't put that word in my mouth. I have always said that it is my deep-seated belief that it is in the interests of the Italians to ensure growth, reform and also a sound budget. But I also said that we must judge the new Italian Government by its actions. That's what I said yesterday in that television interview. Mr President, I will finish this point. Mrs Leijten also referred to the murder of the journalist in Malta. I very much agree with her that that is terrible. That is what she and I exchanged earlier, and I also said at that time that the cabinet made contact in the person of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr President, I see Mr Van Rooijen standing and then I will immediately shut up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u207	You should not do that, because you still have a number of questions to answer, and then Mr Van Rooijen will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u208	I'll talk soon. Mr Sneller asked whether it was a desirable situation that much of the expenditure in the draft budget is already legally compulsory, and nothing flexible can be applied. I must point out that the Chamber itself, regardless of the free space, naturally decides on the 100% of the estimated budget expenditure. It is true, however, that a lot of expenditure is, of course, already laid down in legislation and regulations other than the budgetary laws themselves. Think of social security laws, for example. The horizon or adjustment is often longer than one year, but Mr Sneller knows that as well as It is also about the policy choices made by the Chamber at an earlier stage. So I can imagine that feeling of the Chamber, but the Chamber is always there, if I may put it that way, at the time when that kind of decision is taken. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller also said that the budget of the General Court itself should remain in order. I very much agree with him and that is the case. Then Mrs Leijten asked about the collective agreement. Wages have to be raised, she said, and she asked what's too much about 3.5%. At that point, I really don't want to drive the Minister of State in the wheels. She's talking about this right now and she's puzzled about it herself. I do not think it will help in any way if I make further statements about this from this chair. She has that conversation with the unions and the civil servants and I am not going to share any views and public opinion about that at this stage. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I am on Mrs Leijten's next point, namely the tax on the turnover of tech giants. She asked whether we would like to do something about this ourselves. I believe that we have taken a very important step by presenting a BNC sheet on the European proposal. I believe that we have found, in one of the previous debates, that this digital economy is there, and I think it is a good thing that it is there. That means you also have to think about taxation. Then the question is not so much whether you are going to do that, but how and when. We think that you should do that globally and in the meantime think about a European proposal. Mr Van Raan asked about the CBS, which shows that there is a gap between what the Netherlands produces and what nature can handle. How does the government see it that we could stop that development? The Minister for Agriculture will address this in her view and she will send it to the Chamber before the summer, so perhaps that is the right window for Mr Van Raan as well. Mr. Slootweg asked about pgb's. Many of the costs associated with the pgbs are indeed mapped out and the Court of Auditors gives a good overview of this. However, the costs incurred by municipalities for the implementation of the pgb are lacking. I understand that VNG does not have a complete overview of the costs incurred by municipalities in implementing pgbs. No rule of thumb is used. Mr Stoffer asked if I would be prepared to take the regulatory pressure further. I know how complicated this issue is and how often the Chamber has talked about it. That doesn't affect the importance, but I wouldn't want to "promise" on this either. Luckily, the Secretary of State will still be coming to the Chamber with a "do I have to call it a note"? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr Azarkan asked if I could enter into consultation with the General Court in order to achieve an integral accountability. I think I have just discussed this with Mr Snels: I am prepared to do so. Mr Van Rooijen asked with a sense of understatement for a motion that he and I once put our name under in the past. I really need to make a pass at this point. I can't make a commitment to that on the left or right. The point is... On the subject of dividend taxation there is a whole new set of parliamentary questions from Mr Snels. I think the debate on this is next week or next week. In itself, I don't want to pass a week without talking about it, but I think we should answer those questions nicely. That's what I think I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u209	A word about Italy, which the Minister understood to be fairly brief. I wasn't short on what he didn't miss. The Prime Minister said on Friday that the plans are remarkable. I thought that was a nice statement. He did not speak for his turn; he leaves that to the Minister. I am curious to hear what the Minister has to say here today, even though his colleague Le Maire said on Friday that France, pardon Italy, is almost logical to comply with the budgetary rules. In this context, it is strange that the European Commission has said that they must, but that it must be a reasonable application. And then we start to slide. I have said something about this in my text. Can the Minister say something about this in this Chamber at the moment? He has his colleagues at the table tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u210	That will then be along the lines that I have previously exchanged with the Chamber and which I have also made publicly. One. I really believe that it is in the interests of that wonderful country of Italy and of the Italians to ensure economic growth, reform and a sound budget. Mr Van Rooijen and I agree 100% on this. Two. The rules are the rules. That is really up to the Commission, but they are there for everyone. We do not maintain them because the Netherlands so badly wants them to. The Commission maintains the rules because it is our deep-seated belief that it is in the interests of the Member States to enforce those rules. I have already discussed the third point with Mr Van Rooijen. I can very clearly articulate how I think it should be done for all the countries of the euro group and all the countries of Europe, but I also want to assess every government, including the Italian government, on what they are actually doing and not on what has been said, also because there have been major changes in what has been said over the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u211	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u212	I also referred to Martin Wolf's article in the Financial Times. The Minister undoubtedly got it through his officials. It is a fantastic piece with six bitter and terribly negative graphs, in which Italy is always at the bottom. Italy has had 3% growth over the last 20 years, by far the lowest, much and much less than Portugal, Greece and Spain. So that's a really bad start. Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u213	I can do that now, and I already have. I share a great deal of the concerns expressed by Mr Van Rooijen. There's more going on with Italy. Italy, for example, is in a very different position in terms of population growth compared to the Netherlands or Spain, the number of people of a somewhat older age. There are relatively few young people there and there is relatively little budget growth. There have also been too few reforms for too long, especially compared to a country like the Netherlands. I share that very much with Mr Van Rooijen, but I do not think I can add very much to it myself. I also really think that we should give the Italians a chance to show what they really are up to, even if I, as Minister of Finance, find it very unfortunate if a colleague were to prelude on what he thinks before I started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u214	I think Mr Sneller was now. I told him non-verbal that he'd be next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u215	Attentive of you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, you parked me for a while. My point was about the obligations. It is true that the Chamber itself agrees, but my observation is that the Chamber does not always have sufficient insight into the multiannual commitments entered into by a particular decision. In my opinion, the cabinet can help the Chamber; perhaps the Chamber will ask for it by default. Can that be given insight before we make such a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u216	In general, I understand that question very well. But if, in general terms, I say yes to this, then what does that general answer come up with from promises, including for colleagues? That's what you see me looking for in the meantime. Let me jigsaw on that. When there is a bill through both chambers of the States General, that seems to me to be a moment when you would like to take that with you. I can imagine that it is a subject that comes along one day as Accountability Day, but possibly also to the Millions Note. But I really would have to puzzle on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u217	That's what you get for the Prime Minister being a little laughy and saying, "Well, we've divided the tasks," and then you don't get an answer. You will not get an answer to the crucial question as to whether there is a reduction in taxes or an increase in charges as a result of government policy. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to answers from his secretary of state. "In fact, in the basic path, charges increase by 9 billion. The measures in the coalition agreement lead to a reduction in the burden of 6.5 billion. This ultimately leads to a burden increase of 3.4 billion in total." In other words, I want to say it in plain and clear, so that the whole of the Netherlands hears me. This cabinet increases the burden by 3.4 billion on balance. The whole increase in purchasing power must come from wages and low inflation. If these wages are not higher than inflation, anyone can blame a purchasing power increase. That's the honest story, and I want you to repeat it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u218	No, Mr Van Dijck is really doing the cabinet a little short. He never does that, but now he does; therefore I would like to say it so sharply to him. What he says about wages and inflation is true, but that is of course always the case. If wage developments in the market are disappointing and inflation, on which I have no influence at all, is higher, then of course it has an effect on purchasing power. When you start as a cabinet, you look at the so-called basic path. I understand that most Dutch people think in this concept: what exactly is it and what should I do with it? But that's the reality you look at as a forming party. Then you have the question to ask yourself: do I accept that basic path or do I want to mutate it? That is what the cabinet has done, and very much so, I can say. Then this comes out. I think Mr Van Dijck understands that too. Not only did he ask the Prime Minister, but I remember at least one earlier debate in which he and I had this dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u219	I stand here as a representative of the people and I believe that the people have the right to the fair story. You say now: of course you have to deal with the basic path. I'll translate that for the Dutch. The cabinet, the previous cabinets, intended to steal €100 from your wallet with a burden increase. The cabinet is now abandoning this, and this is called a reduction of €100. On balance, the Dutchman doesn't get anything out of it, because the wallet remains empty. The intention to take €100 out of the wallet and then not do it is not allowed to spin as relief. You almost have to spin that like a mea culpa that you were planning that earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u220	Mr President, as much as I would like to, I think that Mr Van Dijck and I are not going to find each other on this point. We have discussed this subject before. What the basic path looks like and how you then conduct policy is really the reality that you are just dealing with as a cabinet. Not only does this cabinet do that, but all the parties that have their electoral programmes passed on. They always look: what's the store like, what's the status of the crop, what does it look like when we find it and we're going to form it? That is what this cabinet in the making, the four forming parties, has done. Then you have a policy there. Otherwise, I can't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u221	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u222	When we were in crisis and the treasury had a huge deficit, this finance minister was at the forefront of raising taxes. He asked every working Dutchman for €2,800. Now that the finances are in order and the treasury is plentiful with a surplus of 8 billion, he refuses to give back a dime of that 8 billion. Now it's like "a buffer for bad times." See, that's what makes Dutch people gallic. They say, "Okay, we made a sacrifice. After the acid, it comes sweet. Now the money pops against the skirts and now you keep your hand on the cut, because you don't give a dime extra." It depends purely on wage increases and inflation. I think you should just say to the citizens: listen, I don't see any room for tax cuts, I don't see any room to give you extra money in the wallet. That's the honest story. But you won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u223	No. In all courtesy: Mr Van Dijck is now failing my predecessor. He was talking about 'this minister', but he is failing my predecessor, who, as far as I am concerned, has done it exceptionally and wisely. And Mr Van Dijck is not entirely transparent about how the country is now. Yeah, there's a 1.1% surplus now if you look at 2017. But unfortunately, at the same time, as a government, with that very low interest rate last year, we paid over 6 billion in interest charges. Public debt is still well above the number we were looking at before the crisis. I didn't say for nothing that that is a difference of more than 10 percentage points, with 43% gross mode for the crisis and now 56.5%, or what is it, 56.7%. So let us really free ourselves from the illusion that the money is plotting against the plinths. We now have a second year in which, precisely because a year of formation is relatively poor in policy, there is a lot of money left. But then we don't have to pretend the money's messing with the boards. The opposite is true. And I would also like to point out that the CPB does not notice for nothing, with perhaps a slight reproach towards the cabinet, that this is a very expansive budget and that the Council of State has not for nothing touched us, but certainly me, recently and asked me if I knew the risks involved in this budgetary policy. So let us free ourselves from the illusion that we have to spend money on top of the 14.5 billion we have already spent or will already spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u224	I was pleased to be able to compliment you on reducing the regulatory burden. But, of course, that was actually a compliment to your predecessor. To my question on a new objective, you answer: I do not make many promises and there will be a letter from the Secretary of State. My question is, of course, what is in that letter. If it says that we are not doing anything, nor is it a new objective, then I shall table a motion. But if there is a proposal for a new objective, I will wait for that letter first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u225	Would it be okay if I agreed with Mr Stoffer as follows? I understand his demand for lowering the regulatory burden very well. He is also right that the compliment is due to the previous cabinet and, in particular, to my predecessor and not to myself. We want to go through with it as a cabinet. With one of my first remarks, I just wanted to say that this is an extremely persistent subject. I think Mr Stoffer will recognize that. What exactly the letter from the Secretary of State of EZK is going to look like, I dare not say now. I would like to ask Mr Stoffer if he would hold off on the motion, because perhaps there are all kinds of beautiful things in the letter. In any case, the Secretary of State has interviewed me on this subject in the way it is well known. So I know she's really working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u226	I'll wait for the letter and consider whether or not I'm making a motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u227	Thank you. Mrs Leijten, you may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u228	In the General Financial Reviews we discussed in detail the need to raise wages. Now the Empire itself can do something, and now the Minister who is also responsible for all these ICT dramas and for the state real estate leak is heading towards a collective agreement dispute. Today, the European Commission is still telling the Netherlands: you have a problem with the remaining wages. The Minister of Finance does not even want to say anything about these wages. Then let him answer the question I asked: what will it cost if we give 3.5% to the state officials and, for example, to the care and education staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u229	I'd have to get that figured out. I don't know if that's gonna work or at a later date. I would like to give a rough estimate of the cost of such percentages. By the way, you have a much more differentiated discussion when you are in a negotiation than about just the percentage. It is therefore very much a question of what insight that gives. I would like to talk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to see what can or cannot be shared with the Chamber at this stage. However, I would like to ask Mrs Leijten for some understanding and, when a colleague is talking and is negotiating with officials, to allow her to finish those talks. That seems to me to be really decent towards her and, by the way, towards the other negotiating party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u231	Mr. Chairman. It was my pleasure again in this first term. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u232	Nice to meet you. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Returning to my last interruption, I find it a real shame. When the public finances went bad and we were in a crisis, Prime Minister Rutte stood here with his hat in his hand begging for more money to get the finances in order. At that time we were allowed to turn in €2,800 per employee to Mr Rutte. The taxes went up hugely. The collective burden pressure went up by 24 billion. Now that things are getting better and Mr Rutte says that every Dutchman must feel better, the cabinet does not give at home. The cabinet does not reduce the burden, but reduces the burden, or 3.5 billion. If there is any increase in purchasing power, it must therefore come entirely from the rise in wages and lower inflation, and not from this cabinet. The PVV wants part of the 8 billion surplus to be used for real relief. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the economy grew by more than 3% in 2017;]] [[noting that, contrary to all promises, the purchasing power of most citizens has fallen again;]] [[having noted that a budget surplus of EUR 8 billion has been achieved in 2017;]] [[calls on the government to step up its efforts to reduce the burden on citizens, so that they will also notice in their wallets that things are improving economically,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u234	Mr. Chairman. I said it in my first term, and the Minister of Finance has said it here a few times: he pays a lower interest rate on his sovereign debt. During the presentation of the annual financial report, he referred to 3.2 billion. He paid 3.2 billion less interest than in 2012. He thus benefits from the ECB's low interest rate policy, but this is damaging pensioners. The PVV has already indicated that it considers that very unfair. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas interest rates have been artificially kept low for a long time by the ECB;]] [[noting that due to this low interest rates pensions cannot be indexed and may even be reduced;]] [[noting that the low interest rate is favourable to the Treasury by reducing interest charges on the public debt by EUR 3.2 billion in a few years;]] [[noting that where pensioners have been injured, the Minister of Finance benefits from the low interest rate;]] [[calls on the government to use EUR 1 billion of this interest rate counter to temporarily increase the AOW to compensate for the non-indexation of pensions due to low interest rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u235	This motion has been co-signed by Mr Wilders himself, so he gets guaranteed "judgment Chamber"! My last motion was co-signed by the entire opposition. The coalition parties still have doubts and, of course, would like to talk to the Secretary of State in the back room to see if they will, but I am in any case pleased with this Minister's opinion that he would like to turn the Tax Administration and the Investment Agenda into a major project. Mr Wiebes too, as I said in his last debate, said that it should have been, so better late than never. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tax Administration has not been functioning properly for a long time;]] [[noting that for the second year in a row the General Court has identified some eight weaknesses in the management of the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas tax collection is at risk as a result of the implementation of the Investment Agenda and staff turnover;]] [[Speaks from the Investment Agenda at the Tax Administration to designate as a major project in accordance with the Big Projects Scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Tony van Dijck, Mr Nijboer, Mr Stoffer, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Leijten, Mr Snels, Mr Baudet and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u236	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna focus on ICT. The Minister for Finance has rightly said that, of course, we cannot solve all the ICT problems this year. At the same time, there are major challenges. Then you just have to make sure that you have enough of your own people who can control ICT, not so much because we, as VVD, are opposed to the hiring of externals, but because you want to have enough critical mass. One aspect of ICT cannot wait for us, and that has everything to do with security. I had a motion on this point, but I looked again at the motion tabled last year by my colleague Mr Aukje de Vries and read in the operative part: "calls on the government to make the most of its efforts to address the deficiencies in the field of information security by the end of 2017.' That motion was signed by De Vries, Omtzigt, Van Weyenberg and Nijboer. So yes, I do not need to retable that motion, because it still has broad support. Moreover, I have once learned under state law that filing the same motion twice is equivalent to a motion of censure, if I recall correctly. I don't think that's the point. So I am now doing so with the Minister's undertaking that this matter will be discussed in the Council of Ministers and that we will hear back on this matter. And please, Minister, don't send us any reports and no plans of action, but just settle it. I believe that the ambition should be to resolve the security problems raised by the Court of Auditors this year. That is not a job for the Minister for Finance, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs is coordinating this, but we simply want to be able to address the individual ministers on this issue. If we can focus on this and if we get another letter about it, then we have taken a big step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u237	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. I now turn to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u238	"Meat day." That is how Mr Van Dijck started this debate this morning at 10.30 p.m. Then it is about these questions: what do we want to achieve, what are we going to do about it and have we achieved what we want to achieve? That's meatball day. If we can answer these questions in this way, then we really have meatloaf day as it is meant to be, and we can have a very sharp debate on that. But the point is that we cannot answer those questions. That is why, as far as I am concerned, we are not talking about meat-and-bone day, but about spaghetti day. All the information we have to do is get a little bit from everywhere. We have the Monitor Brede Prosperity, we have the Sustainable Development Goals, we have the information from the budgets and the accountability, but they again have no or far too little to do with each other. Spaghetti Day! On another level it is also spaghetti day. There are many initiatives to improve accountability. Insight into Quality, the Compliance Act, the income-burden system, the Monitor Brede Prosperity, the Sustainable Development Goals and, of course, the budgets and accountability of the Cabinet and the Court of Auditors. In the end, these are all initiatives that should lead to a nice plate of spaghetti on the same board, but they still have far too little to do with each other. In the debate, the Prime Minister said that he was afraid that he was swimming in a trap when we were talking about the climate objectives and how they were designed and when I mentioned them as an example of how they should be done in other policy areas. Now I understand that the Prime Minister is often afraid to swim in a political trap, but that was not the intention, as far as I am concerned. I am well aware that in the end he offered an opening to look more closely at the inclusion of objectives in budgets. Maybe "commitment" is a little too big a word, but I'm still translating it as a commitment that the cabinet will look at the next budgets to include more goals that also have a certain relationship with the Sustainable Development Goals and the Monitor Brede Prosperity. I think that's a win. Same commitments and moves towards my side... Not only did I make the analysis, but they made the Court of Auditors, the CDA, even the VVD, who felt that there should be more checkable targets and also Mr Sneller of D66. The analysis is therefore broadly shared. But what we have to do about it step by step and how we're going to straighten out that spaghetti is still a very difficult one. I'd like to admit that to the Minister, too, and grif. All of his moves towards my side, whether it was about getting more insight into the organisations at a distance, looking at how the coherence is with Insight in Quality but also with the Compliance Act, I see as a promise that we will slowly but surely take steps to improve this process. That's why I'm not filing any motions. This is a delicate process; I understand that. We need to take a broad political step forward in this. As far as I am concerned, motions would not have to now and perhaps just disrupt the process. This discussion should continue in the Chamber and with the cabinet. I still have a question, both to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Finance, about symbolism. I asked him, "Why didn't he say anything about the Monitor Brede Prosperity?" The answer was: but it wasn't there at the time. I knew that, but it is still a symbol of how the cabinet dealt with all the different information that came to the Chamber this time. The Monitor Brede Welvaart was presented a little later under the responsibility of the Minister of EZK. The same applies to the Prime Minister, who said that there is no need for a letter of accountability, because it adds nothing. That's a bit of a missed opportunity, isn't it? It is precisely in such a letter of accountability that the Prime Minister could comment on how all these elements of accountability could ultimately help to achieve a broader policy, i.e. a kind of statement of accountability presented by the Court of Auditors. I would like to ask the cabinet, without having an answer to it myself, to consider for next year how all the information that comes to the Chamber is presented in a certain form of integrality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u239	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I now turn to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance for their detailed answers. I have three comments to make and one more question. The first point concerns the type of day of accountability. You're actually looking back. In any case, we are very pleased that it is recognised that there is a tough job for this cabinet when it comes to putting the ICT base in order, in particular information security, and the Tax Office. It doesn't seem very big and compelling, but if you want to get rid of a lot of displeasure and regain some confidence with the inhabitants of this country, these services must function properly. I am glad that the cabinet does not make empty promises on this point, because it is a tough job. We hope, however, that I will share that with the VVD, that we will soon see, preferably before the end of this year, that there are some improvements. We want to keep our finger on the wrist here as much as possible. The second point concerns the Wider Prosperity Monitor. We are now discussing all kinds of dishes, such as meatballs and spaghetti. I think we have arrived at the point where the self-riding baking flour has to be. We now have about the instruments. We must also be careful that there are too many indicators, so that we do not know what we want to send to. I hope that in the coming period we will be able to read in the report what we need to do to the Broad Prosperity Monitor. There should just be a little bit more seriousness in it. Of course, it's just a first picture now. We hope that this point will be reflected in the feedback. My third point concerns defence. Of course, good business is essential to get things in order with the Defense Department, but we can ask ourselves: what do you promise, what do you imply? The moment you put down the 200 million for the reinforcement of the basic unit, the people sitting there will think that they receive it in the form of better equipment and better equipment. The moment the money goes into business, there is a slight difference. My final point is more of a question. How do we intend to justify it in the future? We have not for nothing asked questions about pgbs and what the municipalities and also Zbos are doing in that regard. You can see that the Empire is giving money in progress on a number of tasks. Also municipalities and Zbos do so, so it is much harder to see what the results you want to achieve. Under the Financial Relationship Act, the municipalities are independent in this, but I still think you should look at each other as Thorbecke's house to see how, when money is spent to achieve an objective, we could make it much more clear how that objective is being achieved. Of course, there is an independent responsibility, especially among the municipalities, which answer to their municipal council. However, we wonder how, for example, when we talk about reintegration, we could get a better idea of what we as the Empire are doing and what the municipalities are doing, so that we can get a better idea of what can happen with resources. I hope there will be another reaction from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u241	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten, who speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u242	Mr. Chairman. The crisis is over, but the differences are still large when you are born in a particular neighborhood or if your parents have completed an education at university level or MBO level. The difference is very big if your history isn't in this country. It also depends on whether you are a man or a woman; even then the differences are great. Is this something to rest on? I don't think so. But the Prime Minister says: eight, the gini is right, it goes down; the more burdening capabilities is not a policy commitment. While we can do something about the differences that exist at birth through taxes and a fairer distribution of wealth, so asking more of people who have a lot of wealth, and by the way, you also have a lower income from death, you live in this country for decades in worse health and you die eight years earlier. That way we can do something about it. We are looking back on 2017, but this is also a day of making clear choices. We look back to 2017, but this is also a day of clear choices. That is why I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the richest 10% of households hold more than two thirds of all Dutch assets, while the lower 60% of households have on average negative assets, and that capital inequality has only increased during the crisis;]] [[noting that the Netherlands, after the US, has the greatest power inequality in Western countries;]] [[noting that capital and property income are significantly less taxed than labour income;]] [[calls on the government to introduce a capital tax in order to increase the contribution of the most wealthy Dutch people to public finances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u243	The Minister owes me another answer. He warned Italy, or maybe he didn't. It was about fiscal policy, but it was also about Italy's public debt. Klaas Knot said at Buitenhof in January 2015: The Netherlands and Italy are actually very similar, if you add the public and private debt together. I asked the Minister: what is the matter with you? Can he answer that? I think it's good to be honest about yourself, too, if you want to be strict with others. Apart from the question of what we are doing with the euro, we are going to discuss it at many other times. Mr. Chairman. I told you, it's leaking into the government. It's leaking into ICT. It leaks at the taxes, when it comes to the collection, staff. There's a grant leak. We have a leak at the state real estate agency. We have a police leak: 14,000 police officers are leaving. That's not what we're counting on at all. But we also have a purchasing power leak and a lack of purchasing power. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people have surrendered a lot of purchasing power during and after the financial and economic crisis;]] [[Whereas the economy is growing sharply but household disposable income has been on the zero line for years;]] [[Whereas wage increases help to improve purchasing power;]] [[calls on the government to avoid a collective bargaining dispute in order to ensure that the growth of household disposable income is more consistent with the growth of the economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u244	Hungary, United Kingdom, Italy, France, Romania, Croatia, Portugal, the Czech Republic and our neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium also introduce a national digitaks. They are not waiting for proposals from the European Commission which should not enter into force until 2021 and which affect the subsidiarity of the national Member States, but they are going to work on their own. That gives a lot of inspiration. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the majority of the European Parliament considers that the current proposal by the European Commission for a uniform digital service tax is not in line with the principle of subsidiarity;]] [[noting that ten European Member States are working on national measures to tax digital companies;]] [[considers that agreements between Member States to collect taxes on digital companies do not harm the sovereignty of national governments, but the establishment of a uniform maximum rate of 3%;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a tax measure to tax the turnover of digital companies in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34990-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u245	I'd like to ask another question about this. Indeed, the contribution of the SP Group to the subsidiarity assessment states that it is too restrictive, but it goes further with the basis that is being put forward. The series of countries mentioned by Mrs Leijten goes from an advertising tax to a digital turnover tax. This motion leaves it completely open and also seems to be a bit at odds with its commitment to subsidiarity. Is there any way she can clear that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u246	The two proposals made by the European Commission dealt with the longer term basis. European countries opt for an equal basic principle. We have said that if it is based on another article of the Treaty, it will not harm subsidiarity. The short-term proposal, the second proposal, is based on a maximum rate of 3% and would not start until 2021. So that's not fast either. What I'm saying here is, just look at those ten countries. They do things already. So that's what we can do. Belgium and Germany are doing it. There is therefore no reason to say: we are going to sit on our hands and we are going to see what the European Commission is coming up with. As far as we are concerned, what lies at the moment is at odds with subsidiarity. But that doesn't mean we don't have to do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u247	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u248	Because I believe that the wish here in the Chamber and also in the report is broad that there will be a tax on these digital companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u249	If I understand correctly, the SP Group says: Cabinet, find out what the basis should be; here are a number of countries that do it all in different ways. The cabinet thinks it should be uniform, but the SP group says: choose one and try.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u250	This applies to the Cabinet and the Chamber; we all think that the uniform should be applied. The crazy thing is, Mr. Faster, is that the OECD agreements are scheduled for 2019 or 2020. The European Commission's short-term proposal would not implement the Dutch government until 2021. So what were we even happy about? This is quite apart from the fact that the European Commission's proposals are starving when it comes to the relationship between national Member States and European Treaty law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u251	Then I'm going to see Mr. Nijboer, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u252	I'm a little looking for what the SP wants, because if you really want to tackle the big Internet and tech companies, can't you do that as the Netherlands alone? Surely this motion has a very high "the SP warns Zuckerberg once more" level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u253	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u254	You are voting against European cooperation. What do you want? That Secretary of State Snel, who is extremely busy with everything and everything, is going to tax American tech companies and that the Netherlands will only do that in Europe? That just doesn't make any sense, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u255	Mr Nijboer has done so on this subject. He says that we are blocking European rules. That's not right. We have also endorsed a motion by Mr Asscher, saying that we want to work together on this. In our view, the two Commission proposals are inadequate in their nature. If I see, precisely in the Commission's proposals, that there are already ten countries that have or prepare such a tax, then I think: why go along with bad proposals from the European Commission when we can do it ourselves? The Netherlands is not doing it alone at all. Take the example of IKEA. IKEA simply pays sales tax here, even though it also uses our country to reduce profit tax, for example? We want these digital companies to pay sales tax separately from their branch on, for example, the number of users and the advertisements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u256	Yes. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u257	And there is a lot of inspiration from those ten Member States for how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u258	Good. Mr. Nijboer. This is a second term, isn't it? So you should not initiate any new discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u259	No, I'd like to ask you very briefly if I understand the SP point of view. Is taxing these international companies something that European countries have to do together and on which they have to make firm agreements? Or does the SP say that governments should do that themselves? Then there's nothing to come of it, is my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u260	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u261	Taxation is a sovereign task of the Member States. The fact that the Labour Party wants to move towards European taxation is the big difference between the two of us. I would very much like us to do something, but I am not in favour of a Europe which imposes a maximum rate of 3% on us and which makes us tax on wrong treaty titles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u263	You can do it yourself, just like we have our own taxes on profits and turnover for other large multinational companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u264	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I will go to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll put my second term in six cubes. It's "a day when we don't respond to news reports, but look at the real performance of policies." I've been quoting it for a while in the first term. I think it went rather well today after Italy, I say that towards Mr Van Rooijen....................................................................................................................................................................................... Don't let that happen; we do that shadowing ourselves. But I think the responsibility was very central today. I liked the debate. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. It is also good that the Prime Minister recalled the passage from the cabinet response to the Monitor Brede Welvaart to integrate the Sustainable Development Goals and that monitor more. I do, however, request that next year the offer letter also be given more the character of a cabinet response, as I said in the first term. I think everyone from the PVV to the Animal Party has ideas on how this monitor could be improved in terms of content. I have also put forward a number of ideas on this subject myself. Perhaps we should discuss in committee how at the end of the accountability cycle we will engage with the CBS again on the basis of what we have done with it. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for taking another look at the budget in its preparation for these objectives, with this famous 55% target as a benchmark. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance has undertaken to look again at the integrated justification and to come forward with a letter before the summer. At least I'm happy to accept that outstretched hand from the Chamber. Studying on the obligations also seems important to me, because the interplay between the Cabinet and the Chamber on this point can lead us to be able to implement our budget law even better. Mr Van der Linde rightly referred to Aukje de Vries' motion and a number of others on the ICT issue. I very much look forward to the reaction, because I fully share the sense of urgency that Mr Van der Linde put in that. Written answers to the V100 questions seem fine to me. It would be very nice for the committees to be able to include the answers in the preparation of their legislative submissions with the various directors. Finally, I would like to have the answer to the question about Logius in the second term. In my opinion, I also missed a response to questions about the National Real Estate Company, although there were a number of fairly sharp observations from the Court of Auditors. Perhaps the President, to whom I have asked two questions, can give us some further information on how the Chamber deals with the observations on, for example, its own information security. Are we going to do that in the estimation, or are we going to take it directly into this debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u266	That seems to me to be an important issue, a subject to be included in the estimation. Thank you. No, Mr Sneller, and so is the Minister and the Prime Minister: it is really unusual to talk to each other during a debate as a cabinet and MPs in trade-K. I know, Mr. Faster: often the Prime Minister starts talking himself. Really! I'll keep track of it all. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the cabinet for answering the parliamentary questions. The minister sighed at some point: the money doesn't mess with the skirts, rather the opposite is true. Then I thought, "Well, imagine it's gonna be really hard." The Netherlands is very much in favour of financial and economic development. This is the wind-meek cabinet. Today's debate is about what you do. What political choices do you make? What are the needs in society? From the Monitor Brede Prosperity a few things do emerge. As many colleagues have said, the average does not really represent how everyone is doing. There are huge differences between certain groups. Then what do you do as a cabinet to reduce those differences, to help people who are having a hard time? For example, I mention the tenants. I've paid a lot of attention to people with problems living. I think that's one of the biggest problems of our time. How do you make it easier for them? Aren't you gonna cut back on that? Or aren't you cutting back on people who come with difficulty, like the disabled? Why do you do that when you have the wind? Do you make logical choices to make the country better when you're in the wind? Or are you making other political choices? That is what this debate is about. What lessons do you take from that? I think that the cabinet is doing a few good things in this respect, but it is also really making a few choices that the PvdA Group cannot share, such as lowering business taxes, cutting rent payments and cutting down on people with disabilities. That really doesn't fit into a time when you have the wind full in your back, while a lot of people are against the wind and can't come along. I would therefore like to have another reaction from the cabinet. What lessons does it take? Mr Sneller actually said it in his first term: I'm getting a bit of a procedural note back on those nevertheless useful observations that all these agencies have made. What's the cabinet really gonna do with that? Or does it only take that for notification and only explain the coalition agreement once more? Then there is relatively little point in such a debate. Finally, I come to the IRS as a major project. We've talked about this before. The Chamber, including the PvdA, has always said that there are advantages and disadvantages and the cabinet should have the opportunity to put its own house in order. But that's all four and a half to five years ago. The information system is deteriorating rather than improving, also in terms of structure. We have now received a further letter from the Secretary of State, and we will discuss it with him, that he wants to make the information agreements annually or occasionally instead of every six months. The Court of Auditors says that it will be very difficult to meet the still existing austerity mandate, in technical terms the 'work package reduction'. But the minister says money's not a problem. We have discussed this in depth in the group and, overall, we believe that it meets all the criteria of a major project. Hence the motion-Van Dijck c.s. have co-signed. It is up to the Chamber to name such a thing and the cabinet does not have to find that much of it. It really fits with Accountability Day. naming something as a big project is really an instrument of the Chamber. My question now is more about what the cabinet thinks of the information agreements. However, I think it is right to make a decision on this motion as a Chamber as well. Because that's what this wretched operation deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u268	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u269	Thank you, Mr President. We have listened carefully to what the Prime Minister said about animal welfare and the broad concept of prosperity. I suspect we're very close together. The indicators are known; that was also said. The pain is more in his measureability. It's true that Wageningen is working on that. But we may disagree about what that says, because Wageningen has been working on it for years. From time to time, reports are issued on animal welfare indicators, such as the unhealthy indicators and the air quality in the pig stables. But we are talking here about how we can bring these indicators and their measurability into the broad concept of prosperity. If we do mean the same thing, namely that animal welfare deserves a place in the broad welfare indicator, let us try to ensure that we are not both sent in the same reeds with a bun and let us ask if the CBS is talking to Wageningen. To give that a little incentive, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Monitor Broad Prosperity provides clear insight into the impact of our actions on various indicators, both "Here and Now" and "Elders" and "Later";]] [[noting that none of the indicators of the Broad Prosperity Monitor is concerned with animal welfare;]] [[Whereas human action has an impact on animal welfare;]] [[noting that Brambell's five freedoms have already been incorporated into the Animal Law;]] [[calls on the Government to propose to the CBS an animal welfare indicator based on Brambell's legally established five freedoms to be included in the Broad Prosperity Monitor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u270	Then I have two more, let's say, system motions. In the debate on the broad concept of prosperity, the Chamber stated by a majority that we should use the broad concept of prosperity and the broad monitor of prosperity not only to assess policy afterwards, but also to look at it in advance. In this way we can see whether we can already check in advance what the policy will have for the "Later" and "Elders." That is not the case at the moment. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Broad Prosperity Monitor is of added value in the accountability debates;]] [[Whereas the budgetary cycle has a major impact on the scores of the Netherlands in the dashboards "Here and Now," "Later" and "Elders" from the Monitor Brede Prosperity;]] [[calls on the government to examine how the Broad Prosperity Monitor can become part of the budget cycle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u271	Then I have an additional motion, which is obvious. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Broad Prosperity Monitor is of added value in the accountability debates;]] [[Whereas the tax system has a major impact on the scores of the Netherlands in the dashboards "Hier and Nu," "Later" and "Elders" from the Monitor Brede Welvaart;]] [[calls on the government to examine how the Broad Prosperity Monitor can become part of the tax system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34990-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u272	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank you for answering the questions we asked. We have actually had no answer to the systemic criticism we have expressed in our contribution. Our question was, in particular, whether the economy of the Here and Now is not the problem, rather than the solution. We're sorry to hear that. We also understand that we have a really fundamental difference of opinion with the cabinet. That is why we have a motion, which we are delighted to table. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wealth has been accumulated at the expense of vulnerable groups of people, animals, nature and the environment;]] [[points out that the cabinet has so far pursued policies at the expense of future generations;]] [[calls on the government to develop policies to ensure that the earth's capacity is maintained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u273	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u274	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u275	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers to my questions. Mr. Chairman. We have raised the question of purchasing power. I have also referred to interest rates and asked which part of them comes from the ECB's policy. Mr Van Dijk has just tabled a motion on this. We will support this motion wholeheartedly, because we had also asked for some of those benefits to be used, so to speak, the ECB part for an increase in the AOW, even if it is only temporary. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another very important point in the debate, which, fortunately, the Minister has addressed in detail, for which I thank him. He fully recognised the problems with ICT and the recruitment of sufficiently highly qualified ICT staff. The labour market is tense and the pay gap with the market is huge for some jobs. He started with percentages from 50% to even 100%. At the moment, we often solve that with expensive externals. They may want to do so themselves, but if you look at the total wage costs, it is usually even more expensive for taxpayers than the original job plus some additional pay scales, let's say three. As I pointed out, I can still justify this, but I would like to hear from the cabinet in a fairly short time and in a very concrete manner what it is going to do from now on, and so far it has not done, to attract and retain more highly qualified ICT staff. Can the Minister and the Cabinet come forward with a proposal for an approach? To say that I and the Minister themselves have a point seems insufficient to me. Mr. Chairman. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are ongoing problems with ICT issues in the government in general and with the Tax Administration in particular;]] [[Whereas successive Cabinets have not chosen an ICT Minister, selected to address the problems on the basis of extensive and demonstrable knowledge and experience on ICT issues;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to address rapidly the problems of ICT issues in the government in general and in the tax administration in particular;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the appointment of an ICT trade minister can contribute to the speedier resolution of the ongoing ICT problems and inform the Chamber of the House about them by Prinsjesdag at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u276	Mr. Chairman. It seems to me, also because of the time, wise to park the question about an additional Minister or Secretary of State for the Tax Administration until we have the debate on the Tax Administration, but you will not be surprised that the Minister has not convinced me in any way. What's wrong with temporarily having an extra minister or secretary of state who can concentrate entirely on the Tax Office? This can be done temporarily, so that we can be sure that during this period an additional opportunity is offered to really solve the problem. Mr. Chairman. The minister talked about an understatement I made about the dividend tax. I will not go back to that. I only want the Chamber the following way. Suppose a proposal on the abolition of dividend taxation is packed in a broader basket containing proposals that a large part of the Chamber would like. I will not mention the example, because it will come later, but I have it in my head. In that case, the Second and First Chambers have very limited legislative powers, because then they will not be able to give a separate opinion on the abolition of dividend tax, which may not be desired by a majority of the Chambers. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to comment on Italy. We had the discussion at the time, including with the Prime Minister, about 'not a penny to Greece'. And why did I particularly mention this? For the support. The Minister and I share the concerns about compliance with the rules. We share the concern that the countries themselves should reform. What I am so afraid of is that the support for Europe, the euro and the European Union, which my party also fully supports, may be put at risk to the public if it realizes once again that these Italians are losing it and we are going to lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u277	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rooijen. I now turn to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u278	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief, because when people talk about meatloaf and spaghetti, I start to get hungry this time. Apparently, we agree. I would like to thank the cabinet for answering the questions, not only from myself, but also from colleagues. There were many items on the agenda that also matter to us. I am very pleased that the Minister, too, is making a sound risk assessment of the expenditure he is going to do and not just emptying out the barns. Thank you for that. I think we're on the same page in that respect. We have just had a very brief debate on the regulatory burden. We'll keep our motion to ourselves for a while. We wait for the Secretary of State's letter and, when we hear this, we have every confidence that something good will come out of it. If not, we'll come back to that in due course. To the question about the police we have asked, the Prime Minister answered. I had actually hoped that he would say: the goal we want to achieve is that we have so many agents in every village and every city and we haven't made it at all, just not at all or at all. But it is a bit more cumbersome, so thank you for the answer. I just think it's a little complicated. Maybe we should work this year to make it a little simpler, because I think it's just about you running a lot of cops. That there are still a few complicated things, I understand. So I am not entirely satisfied with that answer, but we also understand that it cannot be simpler at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u279	Thank you very much, Mr Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Compliments, Mr Stoffer does that very efficiently. I thank the rulers for answering the questions. Like my colleague, Mr Nijboer, I am surprised at the answer given by the Minister of Finance when it came to purchasing power development. In fact, now that some can be divided again in times of high economics, the Minister says that it is not doing so well at all because there is still some interest to be paid on that 1.1% and that is actually going to be very difficult. In the meantime, $1.6 billion is being given to Shell and Unilever. Well, I guess I can. As for the Prime Minister's reply when it came to the Monitor Brede Prosperity, I was somewhat distressed. Actually he says: they are nice numbers, nice charts, but I do not do very much with them. So in a year's time, we'll be doing research for that Monitor Brede Welvaart. I can't wait to see what happens next. Mrs. Leijten, you've already been! I would nevertheless like to make an incentive in the form of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this year the Monitor Brede Prosperity was released for the first time;]] [[Whereas this monitor generally presents a positive picture of the situation in the Netherlands, but contains concerns in a number of areas, such as obesity, nature, leisure time, particulate matter and crime, as well as large differences between people with and without migration background;]] [[whereas the monitor will be able to prove its added value in particular if the trends identified are really addressed in policy-making;]] [[calls on the Minister to consider how the trends identified can be taken into account in policy-making and report back to the Chamber on Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u281	The next motion is about responsible budgeting. The Minister of Finance has already indicated that there will be an investigation from the General Court. I thought I'd give you a little incentive. In that sense, the next motion may not be necessary, but it can be corrected later. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that VBTB was succeeded in 2011 by Responsible Budgeting;]] [[Whereas the question arises as to whether the budget and accountability have really improved over the last seven years;]] [[calls on the Minister to evaluate and compare the Responsible Budgeting system with VBTB, to test this evaluation against the clarity and quality of democratic control, and to identify any improvements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34850-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u282	I'll finish with the final motion. It is a question of accountability, as the Court of Auditors calls it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the General Court has warned against a disguised accountability, with different approaches being held accountable to the Court in a different way;]] [[Calls on the Minister to make proposals for an Integral Accountability, and to do so in consultation with the General Court;]] [[also invites the Minister to report on progress on this issue on Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u283	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u284	Thank you. Finally, Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u285	Madam President, colleagues, members of the government, we are finally discussing two questions in this debate: who pays how much taxes and where do we spend our tax dollars? On both points we see a very worrying trend, with the overall burden on the one hand increasing steadily. On average, Dutch people have to cough up more and more, whether through direct taxes, i.e. on the basis of income, or through indirect taxes such as VAT. In addition, the government, the Dutch state, is giving away more and more money to completely pointless obsessions such as reducing CO emissions, but also the whole EU story, which is going to cost us an unlikely amount of money. Forum for Democracy wants to keep it simple. We are tabling two motions to touch on the core of the problem. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since the beginning of Rutte's reign in 2011, collective tax and contribution pressures have increased from around 35.5% to almost 39%;]] [[Considering that the recently disclosed secret dividend memos show that this Rutte coefficient will continue to rise to 40% in the coming years under unchanged government policy in 2021;]] [[noting that the disposable income and purchasing power of working Dutch people will be further under pressure as a result of this burden-aggravating policy of the Rutte III Cabinet;]] [[calls on the government to adjust government policy and reduce the collective tax and contribution burden to a maximum of 35% before the end of this cabinet period by simplifying the tax system, increasing tax-free rates and significantly reducing tax rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34950-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u286	The second motion concerns the leaking of this tax money. We have often talked about the crazy obsession with the CO reduction. I would now like to talk about the extremely worrying development in Italy. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the European Monetary Union is at risk of turning into a transfer union as the new government of Italy intends to initiate numerous reliefs and additional public expenditure of at least EUR 100 billion; Whereas such expenditure cannot possibly be paid by Italy itself and therefore, sooner or later, it will be necessary to use the more thrifty northern Europe; whereas the Netherlands has never agreed to such a transfer union; whereas, on the contrary, the euro was correctly adopted with harsh conditions on "no bailout" and national budgetary rules to which all participating countries had to comply; calls on the government under no circumstances to agree to a transfer union, and goes to the daily order of things. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 21 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u287	Thank you very much, we look forward to the votes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u288	Mrs Leijten has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u289	That last motion is interesting. During the debate on the euro in 1998, this was discussed in detail. The then VVD spokesperson Bolkestein even engraved it in gold over his bed, so we could read today in the Volkskrant. So if everyone has already said that this cannot be done, then the motion is actually superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u290	If we didn't do everything that was unnecessary in this House of Representatives, we wouldn't have to do a lot of other things first. So I don't think that's an argument at all. But no, it is absolutely not superfluous, because Mark Rutte is consulted weekly with all kinds of colleagues from other Member States of the European Union who are now redesigning the whole system on which the euro is based. The Netherlands Bank is now consulting with the European Central Bank. There are many discussions going on about the progress of the European Union, for example in the form of Eurobonds and other matters. I therefore want a very clear statement by this government in writing that will never, in any way, be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u291	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u292	I think that we can have the same starting point and have the same analysis as regards whether the currency union has brought what it promised, and whether the Stability Pact was stable or actually meant only economic decline for people on ordinary incomes. I think we also agree that we do not want this transfer union now. I only suspect that they are going to say: no, we are against it, and that they will consider it that way, just as the adopted Henry motion already says, but that in the meantime the European train will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u293	Okay, I look forward to putting the motion to the vote, and it would be wonderful if this motion were passed. But then that is a clearer signal, not only for the people here who still believe in the reformability of the EU, but also for the Dutch population. The Netherlands is simply ground under the big brown black boot of the EU. We can show that by first adopting this motion, and then by the government doing everything it can to stop that transfer union. I doubt that, because Rutte, of course, has his own ambitions. But still, if we do that, if that transfer union is to come, we can go with a much clearer story to the Dutch people. Then we can say, "Dear people, we have to get out. This is a terrible dead end. It takes away all our prosperity and democracy. Away from that EU, away from that euro."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u294	I'm a little confused. Mr Baudet speaks loudly, but his words are not always easy to understand. What strikes me is that Mr Baudet is very much critical of the Italian intentions of uncapped relief, a form of basic income that is not covered, leading to higher public debt and a transfer union. That seems, oddly enough, very similar to Mr Baudet's programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u295	That is absolutely not the case. On the contrary, we are in favour of a smaller government. We are in favour of leaving much more to those great entrepreneurial, initiative-driven citizens in the Netherlands, and of not slowing people down by too many rules, and of reducing the regulatory burden. As a government, we want to leave more room for citizens to take care of things themselves, and that is precisely the opposite of what Mr Snels thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u296	Mr Snels, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u297	I think the Italian Government is going to do the same. Don't you find it striking? The overlap between what the Italian Government is planning and your own programme, both of which are not covered, both have a higher public debt, both resulting in effects for other countries? With your program, the Netherlands would also be a transfer country to be covered by other countries. I think that's a remarkable observation, don't you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u298	Well, that's not true. Our programme does not lead at all to enormous debts or that we need money from other countries. On the contrary, if we were to carry out our plans, the Dutch economy would flourish enormously. As far as the Italian Government's plans are concerned, we very much agree with them on two points: firstly, a very strict immigration policy, including the expulsion of illegal immigrants, and secondly, much more transparency in democracy. Referenda and elected mayors are already in Italy. That is the kind of thing that we can take as an example, but not the reckless government policy that Italy has been pursuing for many decades. That really is a structural difference with the sparing north, in which the Netherlands belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u299	I have a question on both motions. First, the motion in part No. 21. I heard Mr Baudet say 'that is not in the text 'that he thinks we should also get out of the euro'. Is that an underlying or underlying idea that he implicitly refers to in this motion, or can we ignore it? That seems kind of important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u300	Well, no. The agreements as they are now on paper, the EMU Treaty and the whole way in which the European currency union has been formally set up do not include a transfer union. What critics of the euro, like me, have always said: sooner or later, whether you want it or not, you will come to a transfer union, because those economies of Northern and Southern Europe and also the political cultures are so very different. France, Italy, Spain, Greece, all these countries do not have ten or twenty years, but more than a hundred years of spending too much money, of gradual depreciation. The problem of rising debt has been almost compensated along the path of inflation. The northern, Protestant countries, whatever you want to call them, have a very different political and economic culture. So yes, I think that sooner or later this European currency union will have to result in a transfer union in order to work. Most people don't want that. The VVD doesn't want that either. And now is the time to deliver butter to the fish, to deliver mustard and not after the meal, to say: we will do everything we can to prevent this transfer union from happening. If it turns out that it has to be done, then they have to show their buttocks and then they have to admit that they have not thought through what the implications of that euro are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u301	You really need to give a short response. This is a second term. There is simply a question about the motion and you can comment very briefly on it. You should not take the opportunity to present a whole view of this issue. Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u302	My question was whether we in this motion implicitly or explicitly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u303	Yeah, that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u304	.................................................................................. That's kind of important. We share concerns about a transfer union or a further transfer union, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u305	Look, I have to take into account your limited understanding of the long-term implications of a currency union. The answer is yes. If you do not want a transfer union, you will have to leave the euro, because a transfer union is a necessary and inevitable consequence of having a single currency with totally different countries, economies and so on. Because most people here don't understand that yet, we have to go one step at a time. So we start with a simple motion with the simple message: no transfer union. Okay, no transfer union? The majority doesn't want a transfer union. Well, let's see if we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u306	I do not think Mr Van Rooijen has finished his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u307	I'm just gonna leave my limited understanding aside. At the Brexit I have heard Mr Baudet say: if we go out too, everything will be resolved after five years. That seems to me to be a matter of limited understanding. I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 20. How does Mr Baudet intend to cover about 30 billion dollars in the reduction in collective charges? I don't see that in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u308	I spoke about this extensively in my first term. There are a lot of issues on which this government could make an incredible amount of savings and save an incredible amount. That's what you have to see on the one hand in reducing spending. I have given all kinds of examples of this. But you also need to see it in stimulating the dynamic ability of our economy. This can be done, among other things, by simplifying the tax system, by giving much more space to entrepreneurs, for example by limiting the protection of dismissals, which will make it easier for people to hire new employees. You can also do it by allowing the 1.4 billion that is now going to foreign investors to benefit from the reduction of inheritance tax, which makes it much easier for the new generation to start on the housing market, much easier to start with its own business. That's how you facilitate. And then you'll see that there's a huge dynamic coming out of our society and our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u309	No, no, Mr. Van Rooijen, I'm going to see Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u310	I found that Mr Van Rooijen recorded Mr Baudet's dedain chic. In his tirade, Mr Baudet referred to 'the brown black boot of Europe'. Maybe I didn't get it right. Did he mean something by that, by the brownish black color, or was that a slip?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u311	By this I meant that there are rather dark forces pressing on us and that the chance that we might be able to maintain our liberal democracy underneath is very small. The European Union is a bureaucratic monster, an instrument of central power building at federal level. No matter how you try to get around it, you keep getting out of it: more EU, more power to the institutions and so on. That does indeed press us as a boot that I imagine to be something in dark, dark colors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u312	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u313	I note, then, that the reference that was initially made is now being taken back and that I have indeed misunderstood him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u314	I do not know what Mr Sneller understood or did not understand, but this is what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u315	Thank you. This was the end of the second term of office. I see the Minister of Finance can respond immediately. I now turn to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u316	Can we get the cathedral up any further, Mr. Chairman, or is this it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u317	This is the maximum, and I think it's a little tailored to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u318	Oh, this is the maximum. It may be attuned to the Prime Minister, but it's a bit on the small side. Mr. Chairman. Many thanks for the many critical and constructive questions and comments on this extremely broad and also multifaceted subject. I would like to answer a number of questions and highlight points from the first and second periods before I move on to the motions. Firstly, in the direction of, among others, Mr Snels, I would like to stress very strongly that I would like to draw the House's attention to the same end in terms of understanding of quality and efficiency. As far as I'm concerned, we should still be talking about this. Mrs Leijten asked me about the rough scale of the cost of that wage increase. If you put it all together for a while and take care out of it, you get to 3.5 % at about 1.5 billion. That may require further clarification. What I'm taking with me now is at least Empire, Defense and Police. Mr Slootweg asked in particular about the pgb. That is what I put on my growing list of issues that fall into the box of efficiency. I would also like to point out that I am already going to ask the Chamber for some leniency when it comes to the question of when we are going to do that. That really is a long-term trajectory. I don't want to overpromise in that. To what Mr Sneller said about real estate, Mrs Leijten also said a few things about this. I would like to come back in writing, because there is quite a lot to say about it. The references to spaghetti and otherwise should not make me too short. Mr Nijboer and Mr Azarkan felt that I did not do enough justice to the good state of the economy; may I put it this way? I just wanted to say that I share that very much with them. But then when I look at what that good economic image does and when I look at the clouds on the horizon and at the sovereign debt, my caution comes back around the corner; that is what the Chamber will expect from me. To this degree of caution, the spokesmen themselves regularly call on me. Mr Snels felt that I was far too generous in his direction in terms of the commitments. He's right about that. Mrs Leijten asked about public and private debts. On this point, the President of DNB would have said that Italy and the Netherlands are completely comparable. I think it's subtly different, if I may put it that way. But Mrs Leijten is right that private debts in the Netherlands are on the high side in themselves and are a focus of attention. Then, in his second term, Mr Sneller asked for an unanswered point from the first term, namely Logius. Since I failed to deal with that point in the first term, I am going to be very specific. Logius has 290.31 FTEs of permanent staff and 156.41 FTEs of external hire. Expenditure on permanent staff on the one hand and external hire on the other is almost the same. Within Logius it is determined which functions may and may not be hired extra. Of the total number of external hires, between 35% and 40% are caused by recruitment problems. We're working on this. There is indeed a state-wide standard, the so-called Roemer norm, which indicates that there should not be more than 10% external hire, but the so-called principle of comply or explain applies. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Stoffer asked the police. In my opinion, he was already moderately satisfied with the Government's response, but I would like to say in his direction that the Minister of JenV is also coming up with the police letter, which might give more insight into this problem as early as June. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr.Nijboer asked what we are going to do with the knowledge from the Monitor Brede Welvaart. The cabinet fully recognises that there remain a number of important challenges, such as fossil fuels, but also a number of other issues. I think that Mr Nijboer is thinking in particular of groups that are lagging behind. The policy of the cabinet and in particular of the ministers of SZW and OCW is also aimed at these vulnerable groups. As far as the climate is concerned, I think that the Chamber really recognises that the Minister of EZK is working very hard and in full dialogue with social partners and with the Chamber. The Rijkswide programme Circular Economy aims to reduce the consumption of raw materials. So it is right that Mr Nijboer should ask for that. At least in our eyes we do a lot of things, especially on the more soft points from that Monitor Brede Prosperity, because they are extremely important. Mr. Chairman. I had saved this from comments and questions from the first and second periods. Which brings me to the motions. The first motion by Mr Van Dijck, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6, I must advise against, because there is no cover provided. On his second motion in part No. 7 Mr Van Dijck recalled that, apparently after a long effort, he had been signed by his group chairman. Nevertheless, he did not provide cover for either his group chairman. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion, too. The Van Dijck motion c.s. in piece No. 8 refers to a point to which Mr Nijboer referred, the so-called large project. It has been said by Mr Nijboer and others that there are pluses and minuses, pros and cons. At the same time, I understand what the Chamber wants and I myself, together with the Secretary of State, seek to find the right balance between informing the Chamber as adequately as possible on the one hand to enable it to monitor and on the other hand not to distract the Tax Administration, if I may put it that way, because there will always be the incidents and that just makes it more difficult to get the house in order there. I would therefore ask Mr Van Dijck and the other signatories to hold the motion. In my opinion, the Chamber will be discussing this matter with the Secretary of State in mid-June. Maybe he and I can have a little back-up. Maybe I can ask the Chamber to really consider its substantive answer to the pros and cons of such a major project in the final assessment of this motion, if it were to be put to the vote afterwards. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u319	But if the Van Dijck motion c.s. in piece No. 8 not to be detained? Or do you want to do that, Mr. Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u320	That motion doesn't ask the Cabinet or the Secretary of State. In the motion, the Chamber simply states that she is making a big project of it. So it's purely up to the Chamber. And the Chamber has already indicated in 2015-2016 that it should actually be a big project. Secretary of State Wiebes has indicated that it should actually be a big project. So I suggest that the Chamber pronounces that we turn it into a big project and then sit down with the Secretary of State to see how we're going to complete the reporting and the planning. But first the decision has to be made. Otherwise we fall into the same trap as in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u321	Clear, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u322	Then Mr Omtzigt proposed it and eventually a motion was adopted on a periodic report which did not come to any conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u323	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u324	I therefore believe that the Chamber should give its opinion on this matter. Your judgment isn't really relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u325	Yeah, clear. Clear. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u326	Mr. Chairman. State law is what Mr Van Dijck says, of course, pure and simple, especially that last sentence. There is no misunderstanding about that. For the sake of precision, of course, it could be that the Chamber or part of the Chamber is interested in the judgment of the Cabinet. If that is the case, knowing that this debate is about to take place, then my proposal to Mr Van Dijck and the other initiators would be to weigh the pluses and the loves and listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u327	Yeah, okay. That is also what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u328	So my suggestion would be to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u329	Good. No, Mr. Van Dijck. You say very briefly, but you never do. That's why I'm gonna go first. Indeed, you are right: you are asking the Chamber for a ruling. The Minister has indicated how he looks at it. I would actually suggest moving forward unless you say you're holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u330	Well, Mr President, I actually want to respond to the Minister and give the Secretary of State the chance to respond by letter before Tuesday's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u331	Good. Very generous, yes. Please continue. But you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u332	I don't think you'd expect any further comments from me. So that's what I'm remembering. That brings me to the motion in part No. 9 by Mrs Leijten. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. This is not part of the coalition agreement, nor is it what we in the cabinet think is sensible. In addition, we already have a tax on property income in box 3. The motion in part No. 10 is about the collective bargaining dispute. As stated in the first term, I am not going to make life any more difficult by making all kinds of statements here. I don't think that's helpful in any way. And quite frankly, Mrs Leijten should not want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u333	A brief comment, Mrs Leijten. This point has also been sufficiently discussed in the debate. Yeah, I've been listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u334	You were there all day, Mr. Chairman. Sure. The motion calls for a collective agreement to be avoided. Is that something the government doesn't recommend? Would she rather have a collective bargaining dispute than avoid a collective bargaining conflict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u335	No, but Mrs Leijten has introduced this motion in detail with considerations in the first term. She'll understand that I'm considering it. The underlying suggestion is, of course, that we might end up in a collective agreement conflict. I would just like to give the Minister of Foreign Affairs the opportunity to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion. To be honest, I think Mrs Leijten understands that. That seems to me also to be real in relation to its interlocutors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u336	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u337	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 11 on digital taxation. In the AO in which the Secretary of State was also present, we discussed this in detail. That meandering road to the possible European proposal is littered with thorns and thistles, so I should like to say that I do not recommend this. Well, at least we won't make it any more complicated. That brings me to the motion in part No. 12. The question in that is whether we can send the CBS on the road. May I do so, I ask Mr Van Raan, that I pass the request on to the CBS, but that I also leave the judgment to the CBS?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u338	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u339	I heard some noises, but not through the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u340	They don't count. They won't be in the Acts either. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to understand what the Minister says about this. He says he'll pass it on. Let me ask you a question first to see if I understood correctly. I think the Prime Minister said that it is a technical problem that we are not yet able to measure these indicators properly. In principle, animal welfare could be included in the broad welfare indicator if the CBS sees a reason for doing so. This motion is intended as an incentive for both the CBS and perhaps Wageningen. Hence my enlightening question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u342	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u343	What Mr Van Raan is doing, of course, is very agile is what I really want to stay away from. To pass the question on to the CBS and interpret the motion as such and then leave the judgment as to whether that is possible to the CBS, is a passable path for the cabinet. But when we propose things to the CBS, it suggests that we embrace everything that Mr Van Raan wants here. That's one step too far for me. I would like to pass the request on to the CBS, but I would really like to leave it with the CBS if it is technically possible and if it is worth the time. If I may interpret it that way, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I will also pass on the request as a postillon d'amour, with rather neutral love, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u344	Mr. Van Raan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u345	Neutrally expressed love is also love, so I'm happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u346	It is becoming more and more romantic as the debate comes to an end!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u347	I have therefore prepared Mr Van Raan for bad news about his next motion, the motion in part No. 13. I have to discourage them, because those indicators are not suitable for taking them along in this way. Also the motion in part No. Fourteen I must advise against. At the motion in part No. 15 It is important to highlight what is stated in the government agreement on climate, in which the government fully endorses the Paris climate agreement. Let that also be the guiding principle under the whole climate debate. I think that will help us all, apart from the things in the preamble which are really a bridge too far for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u348	And the verdict is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u349	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u350	Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u351	Two brief comments on the motions. The latter is quite special, because Paris is based on the fact that we remain within the limits of the planet. Anyway, that's a difference of opinion. My second comment concerns the inclusion of the broad welfare indicators in the budgetary cycle. This Chamber, at the time of the definition of the broad concept of prosperity, stated that we should not only look back, but also take into account how to look ahead with that. That's a chamber statement already. This is already the wish of the Chamber. This motion merely calls for an investigation into how we could shape it. I think it is very special that this is not recommended. I don't quite understand the answer that wouldn't fit or couldn't. That's what I meant to hear, but I can't imagine hearing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u352	First of all, about the motion in part No. 15: There are really things in the preamble that the government cannot agree with, such as "expresses that the cabinet has so far made policies at the expense of future generations." And so I can name two more. So I'm just gonna have to dissuade him. On that previous motion, it's two-and-a-half. If the Chamber has already said this and the Cabinet has to do so, the motion is superfluous. But I see Mr Van Raan's movements with his pen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u353	Finally, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u354	... which shows that I may not understand him very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u355	In the cool love we have, the Minister has understood me well. In determining the broad concept of prosperity, it was said at the time: once there is, we must also look at how we can implement it. But it hasn't been said how or where. We are now really proposing to see if this can be given a place in the budget cycle. That's all we're asking. That's different from the motion, but it builds on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u356	Okay, but this motion is different after all. So this wasn't really what we promised. Then I'm back to square one. Especially with the word 'budget cycle', which makes me slightly nervous, I must discourage the motion. However, I would like to say to Mr Van Raan that, with the basket filled by Mr Slootweg, Mr Slootweg and Mr Sneller in terms of efficiency, I would like to look at what will be possible here in the long term. I'm gonna do that in a serious way, but I'd like to buy a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u357	Please continue. The motion in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u358	In the motion in part No. 16 asks the former Secretary of State for an additional Secretary of State for the Tax Administration. I think I have already said a few things about this in the first place, so I must advise against it. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u359	...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u360	Mr. Van Rooijen, this has been discussed so sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u361	Excuse me, I'm doing it wrong. Mr Van Rooijen is quite right, because he is asking for something else. I still have to discourage the motion, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u362	You didn't say anything, and yet the Minister understands what you were up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u363	Immediately. When I see Mr. Van Rooijen coming, I'll scratch my ears right behind my ears. The motion states that we have chosen an ICT minister. Then he asks if we want to do all kinds of reports. I have been really clear, also in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen, about what we should do in the area of ICT. I don't see any added value in re-examining this. That's where we part ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u364	So the Minister is dissuading the motion. That means that I have to ask him if he thinks that there is a ruler in the cabinet who has sufficient expertise. The next question is who that is. I can't assume that's the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Ollongren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u365	Whether the motion should immediately raise all kinds of questions is, of course, up to Mr Van Rooijen. I have tried to explain clearly why, as a cabinet, we do not believe that the appointment of an ICT trade minister is a solution, however much I see how impregnant the IT problems are. Moreover, I do not see in general that if you have a specialist problem, which is widely distributed among ministries, you would have been particularly helped by a minister who has a great deal of knowledge in Mr Van Rooij's terminology. I do not see why the Minister for Foreign Affairs would not have been very well equipped to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u366	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u367	Does the Minister want to investigate? That was the question: whether he wants to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u368	No, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen asked the government to consider whether the appointment of an ICT minister could contribute. Then we'll go on a road we don't have to go on as far as I'm concerned. I want to solve the problems, but I don't see any added value of an additional minister in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u369	Clear! The motion in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u370	And I'm sorry, because I didn't see any good in that extra secretary of state either, so that saves two FTEs. Mr Azarkan asked for the inclusion of trends in policy-making. Frankly, I am not so positive about that, because it means another report. I would, however, like to say in his direction that it can be given a place in the broader efficiency study. I would advise against the motion and I would like to take the idea of efficiency and understanding of Quality. That brings me to Mr Azarkan's motion on item No. 18 on VBTB. I thought I'd helped him a lot on his way, but apparently it wasn't enough. This motion really goes a step too far as we are concerned. Let us await the Court's investigation. Now I must at least discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 19, also by Mr Azarkan, on fully integral. That sounds nice and it also sounds very integral and very complete, but I think it is something we cannot and should not ask of each other. So I must also discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u371	The Minister adds a word I didn't write down. He says "completely integral." It doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u372	No, of course Mr Azarkan is right about that. Integral, but that is complete. So I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u373	I hear all new arguments...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u374	I won't be manufacturing any more stuff around 6:30. That's not helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u375	But what I do find special is that you are referring to the motion in part No. 17 said, "I'm deceiving the motion, but I'm taking the thought with me." That sounded like...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u376	Very hopeful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u377	I think that's new.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u378	Extremely hopeful. I think I have two more motions from Mr Baudet and one last point. The motion in part No. We really need to discourage 20, because the coalition agreement is designed to reduce the burden considerably. It's coming, too, so that's good news. There's less than a year to go, and then we'll all feel it. It does not happen often, but in my opinion Mrs Leijten already has the final judgment on the motion in part No. 20 given. She thinks that this motion is superfluous, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u379	I hear the Minister of Finance say that there will be a reduction in charges for next year. However, in memo 12, the secret memo that did not exist at first, it simply states that until 2021, a further net charge increase is foreseen that will reach 40%. So what the Minister of Finance is saying here is simply wrong. No net relief is foreseen. Of course there will be some relief on some charges, but in other cases there will be additional burdens. I am concerned with the final result, just as the citizens in the Netherlands are concerned with the final result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u380	I'm lucky I didn't see or read any of those memos at any time, so there's no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u381	I got 'em right here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u382	The same applies to that book that Mr Baudet spoke of. This reduction is indeed coming, as of 1 January 2019 and later in this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u383	I'm sorry, but this is just not what the final plan of the Rutte government, which the minister is part of, is if you take all the measures you intend to take together. I am fine with the Minister saying that he disagrees politically with the Forum for Democracy, but he cannot argue that the burden will be lightened in total. Because that's not the case. The burden will continue to rise. That is the policy the Minister has chosen. Let him defend or alter this, but don't let him deny it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u384	Then we are back to the debate that Mr Van Dijck and I have had today, but also more often. We're dealing with the basic path. That is the basic path we will have to accept or not, and then we will have to make policy on it. That's what the Cabinet did. Compared to that basic path, the loads go down fundamentally and significantly. My point was that this will take place as soon as 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u385	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u386	I would like to give Mr Baudet another insight into the precise subdivision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u387	Okay, so if I change the motion and I remove the phrase "up to 35%" in the operative part, so that the motion merely states that taxes must be reduced net and be lower than they are now, can the Minister support the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u388	I don't think the motion would be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u389	So the Minister can support the motion requested and he can take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u390	I think the chairman is always tough when it comes to unnecessary motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u391	I don't find the motion that hard at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u392	I have to discourage the motion. On the motion in part No. 21 I think I've already said something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u393	I would like to say a few words about the motion on item No. 20, because I think this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u394	Sure. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u395	It's very interesting what's happening here. The government is faced with a motion which it does not approve, and then states: oh, but we are already doing so, so the motion is superfluous. No, it doesn't work that way. That's unconstitutional. The idea of parliamentary democracy is that the Chamber is a co-ruler and co-ruler of this country and that, if we propose things that are in line with what the government wants, we can say very well: yes, we want to do so, so we stress that again. The idea that this is an unpleasant point, so that we say that we are actually doing it secretly and that we are therefore voting the motion away, is really bullshit. If the Chamber goes along with that, the Chamber will make a major constitutional mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u396	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u397	Mr Baudet is very excited about it. There's too many things in that motion that the cabinet can't agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u398	What things?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u399	No, Mr Baudet. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u400	It begins with Mr Baudet saying in his motion that the European currency union is at risk of becoming a transfer union. That is a statement by Mr Baudet, but it is not the position of the cabinet. And yes... I don't have much to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u401	You are free, Mr Baudet, to put your motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u402	I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u403	That's what I thought. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u404	When I made the motion in part no. 21, I was thinking of the Hennis motion during our debate on the future of the euro. But today, or yesterday, we have seen a letter of 154 or 157 German economists. They say that with the completion of the banking union and having a European stability mechanism or a European Monetary Fund, we are actually moving towards a liability union, which in fact, in their analysis, is a transfer union. And on these last two points, the Banking Union and the EMF, let the government be in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u405	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u406	How am I supposed to rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u407	That letter or that paper from those German economists is about the banking union. Mr Baudet's motion deals with what an Italian cabinet may, presumably, be planning and makes statements while that cabinet is not yet there. He says, among other things, in that motion, that the cabinet, I quote,'sooner or later an appeal will be made to the more sparing northern Europe'. That's unproven. So I'm not very good with it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u408	Thank you. I thought you were almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u409	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Through Mr. Sneller Cicero came in here by bike: promise everything to all. I would almost like to assume the opposite, do not promise anyone anything, but that is grammatically so imperfect that I do not pronounce it. But I do thank him for that quote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u410	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister, the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-6.u411	Back, Mr. Van Rooijen, don't walk to the ministers yet, because I'm not finished. We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:45. Now it's okay.
