ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr Bierman. I ask the Members to stand up. On 27 August last, Marten Bierman, former senator of the Beerman Group and later the Independent Senate Group (OSF), died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 13 June 1995 to 10 June 2003. Marten Bierman was born on 5 September 1939 in Amsterdam. He studied architecture and urban engineering at the Technische Hogeschool in Delft. In 1962, as a student, he devised the plan to use the Amsterdam canals for public transport by trabo, a combination of tram and boat. After his graduation, Mr.Bierman worked as an assistant in urban planning and architecture at De Groene Amsterdammer, as a planologist at the Volkskrant, and was a member of the Department of Public Administration of the University of Amsterdam. In 1975 he started at SISWO, the Interuniversity Institute for Social and Scientific Research/Institute for Social Sciences. He worked there for more than 25 years, in recent years as coordinator of spatial development. In 2001 he became director of his own Advisory Engineering Office. Mr Bierman's political career began in the 1980s. In 1983 he was secretary of the Green Platform, the predecessor of the Greens. At the 1986 Lower House elections, he was a leader for the Federation of Greens and in 1989 he was third on the list of De Groenen in the Lower House. In 2002 he was a Second Chamber candidate for Leefbaar Nederland. From 2006 to 2010, Mr Bierman was alderman on behalf of the Elders Party Zandvoort. He had an extensive portfolio with, among other things, the policy areas he loved, housing, land-use planning, and land-use policy. For Red Amsterdam, he was a member of the Amsterdam City Council from 2011 to 2015. During the 2014 European Parliament elections, he was a candidate for the Ikkiesvrondelijk.eu party. On 13 June 1995, Mr Bierman was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber and formed the one-man group Bierman. He represented a group of six regional parties and De Groenen of which he was a member. Bierman Group was a forerunner of the Independent Senate Group, which led Bierman after the 1999 elections. With the OSF, Bierman represented thirteen provincial parties, six of which called themselves "living." He remained a member of this Chamber until 10 June 2003. About the OSF, Marten Bierman said in 2003, I quote: "The emergence of new parties is often inherent in the existence of discontent. Citizens do not feel heard and then join a new party. The CDA was born out of discontent, wasn't it?'. In his maiden speech in the First Chamber during the treatment of the Green Space Structure Scheme on 12 September 1995, Mr Bierman was able to shed much of his knowledge and experience of spatial planning and of his love for nature. He said, I quote: "I think that many with me experience this discussion as a relief. At last we are not talking about the rural area as the backyard of the Randstad, where the necessary heavy infrastructure has to be housed again. No, we are talking about intrinsic values." Back then, President Herman Tjeenk Willink congratulated Bierman on the words, and I quote again: "I note that you have done your first proficiency test here by not reading (...) a written story, but by holding your speech of an A5 note. The reputation you have advanced is that you are eminently expert in the field we are dealing with today. I think you have indeed shown that." In 1995, Mr Bierman and his one-man group took care of a novel. Only Parliamentary groups received funding for scientific research, training and education. However, the Bierman Group was only represented in the Upper Chamber. With the help of then Minister of the Interior Hans Dijkstal, the Bierman Group received a grant from 1 January 1997. With that money, the Foundation became Ir. Marten Bierman founded. Mr Bierman said he was happy with this development, and I quote again: 'We can now professionalize, a magazine like Locomotie', which still exists, by the way,'release, launch new research. The Hague can no longer ignore this new, politically independent sound." In addition to his political career, Mr Bierman was founder and later chairman of the IJsselmeervereniging, founder of the environmental movement GRAS, member of the Working Group 2000, who did future research in the early 1970s and editor of the bimonthly magazine Plan. On the occasion of his departure from SISWO in 2001, the collection "Bierman wat Bierman; 25 years of stubbornness of a polygonist" was published. As the subtitle suggests, Mr Bierman was a versatile man. He was also director of award-winning nature films, winner of architectural contests and visual artist, graphic artist, to be precise. The Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam organized a retrospective exhibition of his work in 1969 and in 2001 part of his etchings were shown in the walkway of this Chamber. In 2008, Mr. Bierman was appointed Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau. In his long social and political life, Mr Bierman set himself the goal of making the Netherlands as beautiful as possible, where the environment and nature came first. In his own words, I quote, "You have to make choices if you want to improve the world." May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
