ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u1	We will continue with the third term of the amendment of the Gas Act and of the Mining Act on Minimising Gas Extraction from the Groningen Field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u2	The Wassenberg/Beckerman motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we must stop not only the earthquakes in Groningen, but also global warming;]] [[Notes that the climate has not been helped to replace Groningen's natural gas with natural gas from elsewhere;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to reduce the use of natural gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 40 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u3	I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, we expressed strong criticism of the amendment of the Gas Act and the Mining Act. The law does not contain a date on which gas extraction goes to 12 billion m, let alone a date on which gas extraction ends. The law doesn't rule that Groninger's safety is paramount. The law limits the possibilities for the regulator and the law deletes the article on duty of care and the economic offence, as is the case in the rest of the country. After a messy debate, it turned out that the Minister does not want to change anything about this. After a messy debate, there was a lot of uncertainty. With my group it is in no way clear that this is a law that would be good for Groningen, certainly not because the deal with Shell and Exxon literally states that this law must come through the Chamber unharmed. Last time, the debate ended that the Minister still had a lot of letters to give. I think that much has actually remained unclear. Also about the deal with Shell and Exxon is much unclear. The only thing that's really clear is that this was a good deal for Shell and Exxon. What we now know is that it's going to cost the State Treasury more than 2.8 billion until 2022, but we don't know exactly how much it's going to be. After all, this deal was concluded without involving the House of Representatives. Yesterday, the surveillance said again: we do not know when the earthquakes will stop. We do not know when the earthquakes will stop: that is a reality that is extremely painful for the Groningers. They can continue after stopping the gas extraction. But if the gas extraction stops, Shell and Exxon's guarantee that they will continue to pay. Does the Minister agree with me that this is really an absurd part of the agreement? According to Article 6.8 of the Agreement, the guarantees will be updated on 31 December 2019 or when we are below 12 billion m. What does this mean? What does this say? What about the payment of the old damages? Last week, at 10:30 p.m., the Minister said that the new distribution key, whereby the State has to pay more and Shell and Exxon less, also applies retroactively until 1 January. The same applies to the old damage. I had to ask for a long time to get it out. Then everyone was fairly angry about this. Now there's something else in the letter. It is completely unclear what exactly it says. Now it appears that it does not apply to the built-up fund of 1.4 billion. What exactly is it, Minister? Did you say something wrong in the House of Representatives last week? You're gonna fix that now? It's not clear in that letter. What part of that 1.4 billion has been used? What was spent on the old damage? What's the deal with that, exactly? Everything remains unclear about the reinforcement and the duty of care. What is the legal basis of the reinforcement, when the article in the Mining Act on which it is based is deleted? When does the infringement of the duty of care lead to enforceable measures? The new letter seems to contradict cases of liability. On page 4, it says that citizens are no longer entitled to compensation from NAM but from the Institute and that NAM will no longer be liable to them. Do I now read correctly that the NAM is no longer liable to the Groningers, but that it is liable to the State? Is Article 6.177 of the Civil Code therefore wholly or partially inoperative and does that also apply retroactively? What's the deal, exactly? That article is based, for example, on the Groningen case in order to obtain compensation for their intangible damage. That's an important matter, because Groningers got pretty psychic. A lot of people are really messy and sick. Mr President, I will conclude. The NAM is appealing against this case, a case they've lost. Why hasn't the Minister agreed that the NAM will waive this appeal now that she's made such a deal? For it is precisely the compensation of intangible damage, the recognition of the suffering that has been done to them, that is very important for the Groningen people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u6	Thank you, Mr President. A third term. That's what you get, of course. The debate last Thursday was, to say the least, a mess. Not before have we heard the Minister say so many times in his reply: I will come back to that later, in the second term. Never before have we heard this minister promise so many letters. It was kind of like the TV quiz 2 for 12. You know him, Mr. Chairman. Then it is said "we look it up," after which the clock starts ticking. Apparently, the clock is also ticking for this minister, because everything indicates that he wants to get through this bill quickly. Come on, voices. And let's go to the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Haste rush is rarely good. Last Thursday it turned out so, because in the middle of the night, at the very end of the answer by the Minister in the second term, it was now 0.30 a.m., the Minister announced just as quickly that Shell and Exxon will pay less than we all thought. This means that the NAM's years of training are paying off and that the State, or the taxpayer, must make more contributions. Can the Minister honestly admit it? Was he even supposed to tell us this? Or did he misspoke? Were we supposed to know? It doesn't look like it. Otherwise, he would have told us in one of his letters. Even the minister's officials in the back row got restless when he told us here. So Shell and Exxon are going to contribute less. All this is due to the gas deal that the Minister has secretly closed. The Chamber has rightly fallen over that. In the meantime, does the Minister share the view that it has been far too premature to conclude that deal without the permission of the Chamber? How does the Minister explain this to the people of Groningen? How does he explain to the people with old damages cases, who are currently rejected by the NAM with a tip, that Shell and Exxon need to contribute less? It just can't be explained. In this legislative proposal, the Minister defines the so-called operational strategy. This means that the Minister will ultimately decide how much gas will be extracted. But with a temporary measure, he can change that amount in the interim if the demand for gas changes, or I better say: if demand increases. What increase is acceptable to the Minister? Is there a certain upper limit to that? What are we supposed to think about? Is this 54 billion cub possible, which was decided secretly by Minister Kamp in 2013? Mr. Chairman. Gas extraction has to go down and eventually to zero, but Mrs Beckerman didn't say it anywhere in the bill. We don't see any dates. So we have to believe the Minister on his blue eyes that it is actually going to happen. Unfortunately, the Minister himself has prevented us from believing him on his blue eyes. If gas extraction is not regulated by law, we have to wait and see what future Cabinets are going to do. And that's not very reassuring. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u8	Mr. Chairman. We amend the Gas Act to ensure that less demand for Groningen gas actually leads to less gas extraction in Groningen. This amendment of the law is therefore an additional guarantee of safety. D66 wants the safety of residents to outweigh security in relation to security of supply when adopting the operational strategy. I tabled a motion for that last week. D66 also wants the decision-making on the level of gas extraction to be transparent and follow-up so that everyone can assess how the Minister has weighed the different types of security against each other. We tabled an amendment to that effect last week with several groups. The Minister gave a positive opinion on both proposals, for which he thanked. Last week there was some fuss around 00.20 hours when it was given the impression that the cost of the 6,000 old damage cases would already be covered by the new cost allocation between the State and Shell and Exxon. The NAM has, in my own words, trained for years the damage handling and would then be rewarded with a lower bill. I didn't think that was possible. In the debate last week, I looked for words and then expressed myself very nicely with the word'sorry'. The letter of 3 July on the financial effects of the main agreement does not give a very explicit answer to this point. That's why I have the next check question. Did I understand the letter correctly when I say that the Minister now indicates that the old damages are simply covered by the old distribution and that they are paid out of the 1.4 billion that the NAM had previously reserved? On 2 July, the Financial Dagblad reported that Shell and ExxonMobil's guarantees provided only limited security for the costs of damage and reinforcement in the agreement. The Minister writes in his response to this notice that the guarantees given will only be addressed if the NAM can no longer meet its financial liability. I understand that he says that, but those guarantees are also there to ensure that there are clear agreements when things go wrong, so that we do not have to discuss again how we are going to solve it. What is the obligation to "take care of"? The Minister also writes that he has assured himself that Shell and Exxon can now and in the future bear the guarantees. Does this offer firm guarantees when it is needed, or should this be renegotiated? And what does it mean that the NAM makes provisions? Can we be more specific about this? The guarantees count until the end of the gas extraction process. It will have to be discussed again for the period thereafter. How and when will the Minister work that out and how will the House of Representatives be involved? Mr President, I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u9	Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Jetten is all quite right to ask questions about the guarantees, but does he not, like me, have the impression that the agreement has been designed in such a way that the profitability of the NAM is constantly secured, so that the guarantees never have to be addressed? That approach makes the agreement rather dubious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u11	I heard the Minister say something else last week. Some of the new agreements should ensure that the NAM can continue to generate gas at all, even if we reduce gas extraction very quickly. Of course, we want to go to zero as soon as possible, but we also need a bit of gas extraction in Groningen as a final part of our energy needs. Last week, the Minister explained very clearly that with this rapid phasing-out path gas extraction is no longer profitable at some point and that a different distribution of costs and revenues is needed if gas extraction is to be properly phased out at all. I think the Minister explained that clearly last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u13	I'm already on my last point. Yesterday afternoon, the House of Representatives discussed the spring note in detail with the Minister of Finance. The financial impact of the agreement on key issues was also discussed. My group understands that, with such a historic decision, the cabinet cannot make all the financial consequences fully clear one day. The phasing-out path is, of course, connected with that. There are many different factors that can influence that. During last week's debate, this Minister promised to come up with an integral picture of the costs around Prinsjesdag. I would like to give him the time until then to make the entire financial situation clear and transparent. I have one question. Can the Minister promise that in that letter at Prinsjesdag he will provide insight into the financial effects of the old phasing-out path and the financial effects of the new phasing-out path? Then we can compare the two very well. I think that the Chamber can then come to a good, comprehensive assessment of the agreement with Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u14	There is a short question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u15	I find Mr Jetten's very good questions. I just didn't understand one point, namely that he understood that the Minister had no insight into the financial consequences and the way things were going. I'd say if you signed a deal like that, you'd have to know all that, wouldn't you? It's about billions of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u16	Then let me put it a little more precisely. It is, I think, a good thing that Mr Nijboer is asking me this. Over the past few weeks, we have been getting more and more clarity about the financial impact. The letter that I think we received for the first time also shows a nice first look at it. I also said in the first and second periods: I want to know more, but I understand that it cannot be done so quickly, with everything that is currently under development on the gas file. But I really think that Princess Day is the moment when we, as Chambers, should be able to fully assess the agreement on its broad lines and its financial impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u17	I still think it's crazy. Because the budget is in the Chamber, I asked first: give it to us as a parliament in advance. That was voted down, so the Minister could go ahead. It's weird to close it if you haven't got it in order yet, isn't it? It is very strange that the Minister until Princess Day needs time to inform the Chamber, and that once in a while there is a patch of information coming to the Chamber in response to parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u18	Once again, my group will allow the cabinet time to map this well at Princess's Day. Mr Nijboer and I had a brief debate last week in which we found together that as a Chamber at Prinsjesdag we can make the final judgment. Finally, if you will allow me, because I forgot to say one thing. Mr Van der Lee has amended one amendment. That's about mining around the Wadden region. This amendment will also enable my group to support that amendment, in addition to the amendments we discussed last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u19	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u20	I was just passing on the number of the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u21	Yeah, that's right. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u22	Thank you. Under steam and boiling water this law is hunted by it. In principle, I support the aim of this law: to quickly close the gas tap of Slochteren and therefore in the years to come only as much gas as is strictly necessary. However, even after the additional letters on liability, duty of care and the cost of the main agreement, I am not at all reassured. There are still two main concerns that are quite devastating in combination. First of all, the safety importance, which consists of two aspects, is not weighed more heavily than the security of supply. My amendment to item No. 7 in combination with a well-thought-out emergency exit plan is better than this law. Last week, this amendment was judged "unacceptable'. Then it was dissuaded. I hope that the Minister, after a few nights' sleep, is now ready to leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. I'm hammering on this because there's another weakness in this law as well. Then it's about duty of care. For the NAM it is weakened from the prevention of damage to the reduction of damage. The State assumes the duty of care to ensure safety, but the prevention of damage has, certainly in the short term, become orphaned. The combination of reversing gas extraction and rapid reinforcement will lead to more safety and less damage in the longer term, but it will really take a while to get there. In the meantime, we really need to prepare ourselves for an exceptionally cold winter that can cross all noble plans ugly. Then we really need a relapse option. My amendment gives the room for that. In addition to my concerns about the substantive shortcomings in the law, I have a very unpleasant feeling that with a 'yes' to this law today, I also have the agreement on basics with Shell and Exxon legitimacy. It's only with Princess' Day that we get insight into all the costs and consequences. This is a response to my request, but this is really late, too late, because there are already a lot of questions, including timing. Would it not have been better to conclude the agreement after the advice of the Mines Council had become known? Why is the State paying exclusively for the so-called "dialogue houses" that seem to be safe? I also had all the questions about the guarantees that Mr Jetten put. Why does the new law on the institute to be set up contain the provision that fees to be paid by the institute will not be recovered from the NAM by order or by mandatory regulation of the State? What's the background to that? Are these also included in the dialogue homes? After the summer there will be a closed technical briefing on the agreement. For now at least the question to the Minister when he intends to conclude the more detailed follow-up agreement with Shell and Exxon. Last week he told me to clarify in the follow-up agreement that the limitation to corporate taxation applies only to the use of Norg as a storage facility. The correct payment will be paid for the gas in storage. Is there room for the Chamber to provide input on other points for that more detailed follow-up agreement? Does he want to put his commitment to that agreement to the Chamber first? Now the new agreement only applies until the end of the gas extraction from Slochteren. What is going to happen with the after-life effects and with the related costs, is not yet settled at all. What about the guarantees from Exxon and Shell at that time in time? That justifies a debate in the Chamber, because we want to know what is going on and to be able to express our opinion on it. If these questions are not adequately answered today, I cannot ask my group today to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u24	I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to Amendment No. 44, that amended amendment on the Wadden Sea area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u25	Exactly. Thank you. Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u26	Mr President, I agree with Mr Van der Lee that this law is indeed a matter of urgency. The core criticism of this law by the PvdA is that delivery insecurity is defined. That's something that doesn't exist and was conceived for this law. It is simply a legitimate economic interest, because nobody wants all the factories to stop and everyone will be unemployed when tomorrow's gas tap is closed. Then call it that. In the law, give priority to the safety of Groningen. Both aren't done. This means that the law is so shaky that, although we do support the objective, we will have great difficulty in agreeing to it. In fact, I tend to advise my group to vote against it. Anyway, we're still giving the Minister a chance to answer. Mr President, the other main point is, was and will continue to be the main point of the agreement in the near future. The agreement with Minister Wiebes, Shell and Exxon, which Shell and Exxon looked forward to and checked with the taxpayer. Over the past week, more and more information has come up. That will continue to happen in the near future, because we are not well informed as a Chamber. At first, it turned out to be half a billion but 135 million. Yesterday we received a crystal clear letter from Minister Hoekstra on how things are going: there will be 1 billion for Groningen and there will be 135 million from the State. That is a very different letter and its very different texts from what was in the agreement. There was really said "half a billion," but that turned out to be different. At the request of the Chamber, nearly 3 billion were awarded to Shell and Exxon via the key. The argument then comes out at once that there was a claim from those companies. Yesterday, in the spring note, because it is about big taxpayers' money, I asked Minister Hoekstra extensively about it. He actually referred all the questions to Minister Wiebes, so I'm gonna ask them again. Was there a potential claim between Shell and Exxon? If so, when did these companies transfer them to the Minister? Are there any calculations on the basis of which that claim is made? Minister Hoekstra spoke of 70 billion, but 90% of what was in the ground was owned by the State, wasn't it? There's also a cost to pick it up. Where does such a sum suddenly come from? Have you been asked for advice from the state attorney on how likely such a claim would be? If so, can we see that advice? These are very fundamental questions, because they amount to 2.85 billion, almost 3 billion, which was given until 2022. Why wasn't the insight given until 2030? The contract runs until 2030, right? Should we as a room ask every year's edition, every year's edition? The PvdA Group blames the cabinet for presenting matters in such a way that they are best suited to the cabinet. That 500 million is an example of this. On the other hand, in this 3 billion, taxes were taken in one go. It's not true that this deal involves tax payments, is it? Don't come to me with 'we're making it transparent' and 'the Chamber wanted to know', because that would have happened with the 500 million. We are being deliberately misguided, and that is serious, Mr President, that is serious. Finally. Yesterday I talked a lot about it with the Minister of Finance, and he did not reply convincingly. The Court's budget law is under serious pressure: the guarantees, the guarantees, the damages, the reinforcement of which we already have to pay as taxpayers, a week after the agreement, and this 3 billion. The cabinet should have just submitted it to the Chamber, then not all the bodies would have had to come out of the closet, and there will be many more if you look at the contract in detail. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a deal has been made by Minister Wiebes with Shell and Exxon;]] [[Whereas this involves billions of taxpayers' money and large liabilities;]] [[calls for the agreement not to be supported;]] [[asks the cabinet to return to the negotiating table,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Kops and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34957-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This agreement should never have been concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u28	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u29	Mr President, we have already had an extensive first and also a second term. From a feeling that there was a lot of uncertainty among a number of parties, I found it very reasonable to do a third term today, but I myself do not have so many comments for this third term. However, it gave me the opportunity to table another amendment. I'm sure you've already seen that. It's just a tightening up. Suppose some unexpected things happen in Groningen in a row, can we intervene? That's what the amendment is for. Mr. Chairman. We received the letter on liability and the letter on cost-sharing. Strictly regulating the extraction of gas creates other responsibilities and costs. The cabinet chooses not to win gas from the Groningenveld as soon as possible. That is why this law is necessary. With a new cooperation agreement, there will be no claims and the NAM will continue to pay for damage and reinforcement and we also have guarantees for that. In the short term, this means less revenue and higher costs. Yet this is the way we will have to go to make Groningen safe. Mr. Chairman. A new distribution of costs for the long-lasting damages at NAM felt particularly bad for me last week. I said here in the room, I'm in shock. Fortunately, it all seems less serious than it seemed last week, but perhaps the Minister can explain it here; I do need it. What I also remembered from last week's debate is that a justified remark by the Minister is that it can almost be a form of care. I like to say that we can go downstairs as soon as possible with that gas extraction in Groningen. I'd do anything for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are again discussing the bill to minimize gas extraction in Groningen. We do this because, among other things, there were further questions about the financial effects of the agreements with Shell and Exxon. It is good that we take the time to think about this again. For me an opportunity to stress once again why the VVD believes that these agreements benefit the inhabitants of Groningen. I cannot say it often enough: for us, the safety of Groninger is at the heart of the issue and, in addition to that, the clarity they have been waiting for for so long. That clarity is there with these agreements. It is a balanced package of points that we welcome and points that are less favourable. Mr. Chairman. Gas extraction's going to zero. This leads logically to the maintenance of gas in the ground that is not extracted. Gas with a value of about 70 billion euros. That could have led to major claims. They've been averted from these appointments. In addition, it is ensured that NAM may continue to generate the minimum necessary gas as long as necessary for the security of supply. The agreement also provides certainty on the financial resources for damage and strengthening and a contribution will be made available to the region. In contrast to these matters, the existing financial arrangements are being replaced. There's a new division. Mr. Chairman. This Minister has taken crucial steps to achieve this. With these agreements, Groningen has the certainty that gas extraction will stop and the prospect that at least 1 billion will be invested in the region. The whole of the Netherlands has the certainty that we will not be in the cold and that we will not have a claim for the 70 billion. Such a claim might have cost us a lot more as taxpayers. I would like to know how that amount of 1 billion is used. How do we ensure that this gets to our Groningers as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. Last week there was a lack of clarity about the old damage. Several colleagues have also pointed this out. It seemed that the State would take on a higher proportion of the payments for the old damages, but that seems to be different now. I would appreciate it if the Minister could go into more detail on what exactly is going on so that that can be very clear. Mr. Chairman. You almost forgot, but this law is needed to reduce gas extraction to zero at a rapid pace, for our Groningers. The VVD considers it important that it be arranged before the new gas year starts in October. I therefore hope that we can vote for this law tonight and show Groningen that we mean business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u32	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the first and second-term questions. It's an important bill, this bill on the return of gas extraction to zero. Over the next few years, we're not going to win more than we need and we're going to minimize gas extraction. It is important that we adopt the bill today in order to obtain as little gas as possible in the next gas year. I welcome the Minister's clear commitment to the important importance of the security of residents in the weighing of interests. This important interest must also be properly justified, and that is why my name is under Mr Jetten's amendment. The Christian Union will also support amendments by Mr Van der Lee which improve the law on the measurement and rule protocol, the tightening of the legal task of GTS and the transmission of the supervisory report, State supervision. The same applies to Mrs Mulder's amendment on clarity regarding the imposition of a temporary measure, which I have also tabled. Mr. Chairman. Today the motion on mental care, which I tabled together with D66, VVD and CDA, will also be put to the vote. The motion calls for money to be made available immediately for mental care. That is urgently needed given the spiritual need in the area. The stories of psychologists and the Plaform Church and Earthquake, among others, touch me deeply. I therefore urge the Minister to proceed quickly with this motion. There is a plan, the people are ready, the employership can be filled out, so tomorrow the people could get started. Then there is the amendment on the Wadden. I endorsed Mr Van der Lee's amended amendment on the no longer granting of search permits under the Wadden Islands, the Wadden Sea and adjacent Natura 2000 sites. In the coalition agreement, it has already been decided not to have any more detection permits for land gas extraction. I think it would be good to record this explicitly for our beautiful Wadden region as well. I hope for a positive response from the Minister and for broad support from the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The Minister explained in letters the agreements with Shell and ExxonMobil and the liability and duty of care. Around Prinsjesdag we get more insight into the total financial impact. For now, my group can certainly agree to the overall package that is now in place. It is acceptable to us. Important elements for my group are: the security of supply of gas extraction, a permanent liability for damage and strengthening, no claim on the gas that remains in the ground and the contribution that will be made to the future prospects of the region. There are pluses and mins, I believe that Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius has said so, but there is a total package and for my group the importance of the people in Groningen, the safety and the reduction of gas extraction are paramount. In that context, this agreement is certainly well-defendable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u34	Thank you. Mr Nijboer has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u35	On a point of order, Mr President. I tabled two motions yesterday to the Spring Note: 34960, No. 9 and 10. The Minister for Finance referred this to this debate. I hope that the Minister will be able to deal with these motions as well. Perhaps they can be distributed for a moment, so that colleagues have them on hand too, because I can imagine that not everyone has those motions so available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u36	There are other spokesmen, that's right. The Minister knows about what motions they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u38	Then I shall suspend the sitting until 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u39	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u40	Mr. Chairman. I will try to keep the answer to the questions as short as possible. I would like to make one point in general about something that I have to go into. It also played a role in the previous debate or in the previous deadlines. Mr Van der Lee, who rightly said the last time that there was a hurry, has even increased the pace to the level of steam and boiling water. It's going fast. That's true. That makes it extremely intensive for the department. That makes it hard for the Chamber. I know. I also see that I am no longer in Olympic condition myself. That's all true. But the pace is my inevitable mission here, and frankly also an assignment from this Chamber. We wanted to take the mining down quickly. We wanted to know very quickly about 1,588. We wanted to deal quickly with the damage in public law. We wanted to get away from NAM very quickly and we wanted to be clear about the guarantees for the cost of damage and reinforcement. We all wanted that fast. I know that not every Member here agrees with every aspect of the law or with the agreement in general. That's true. However, I am standing up for the people who have been working on this. This is orderly work that has been done carefully. They've been working on that for months. Professionals have worked on this with great care and with a great deal of knowledge. There's nothing sloppy about that. As far as the main agreement is concerned, this has been done in very close cooperation with the Ministry and the Minister for Finance. But it's complicated. That's true. We just saw it at the reinforcements. The SodM and the Mining Council count in buildings. The NCG counts in addresses. One comes with different numbers than the other. Although they both count in buildings, they have another reference year. That's not messy. That's Mr Kops's words. That's just complicated. We have two margins of uncertainty running through each other. That makes it complicated, but it's not wrong. It's what professionals tell us. We have revenue, expenses and claims from the NAM that all translate into certain effects for the State. That's nothing new. It's complicated, though. That's a fact. The legal safeguards, which have been discussed a great deal here, are interrelated in private law, criminal law and administrative law. That's not messy. It's complicated. That's what it is. I say it in the direction of Mr Kops. When I talk about'region', people in the north may immediately think about the provincial budget, but I do not say that. But it is understandable that people think for a moment: oh, he is talking about that. That's not wrong, but it's complicated. I remain committed to making it as simple as possible and to be as open as possible. But I admit there is indeed some urgency. That's true. In a situation that is complex and in which everything is related, this creates complex situations. Mr. Chairman. I would like to look at some aspects of the agreement in a very short space of time. For the sake of budgetary law, I have to refer to the Minister of Finance, because who would pretend that he would have anything to add to the Minister of Finance? I deal with the distribution of profits, the claim, the guarantees and the old damages cases. Then I'll walk by the questions of the various spokesmen. I'll try to do it as soon as I can. Mr Kops and Mr Nijboer asked questions about the distribution of revenue. I continue to say that the starting point was a completely unsustainable one. We cannot reasonably expect to be able to conclude an agreement on the main lines with a party from whom we ask for all the necessary guarantees, from whom we ask to waive a claim and to accept a mining obligation in exchange for a loss on exploitation. That's a basic path I can't get through negotiations. Nobody. The vertical adjustment of the budget is only aimed at converting red figures from NAM into black figures, without pretending that the profits of the recent past are coming back to the extreme. I think this is necessary and nothing exaggerated. Then I must also say that it is not 2.8 billion. In the past it has always been the case that we calculate the natural gas benefits and the effects on natural gas benefits, including the Vpb effects. That's how it's always done, and that's what the 73% is based on. All these percentages are based on that. I therefore maintain that this is certainly not about the amount referred to by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u41	Well, then I'm really curious how that works. The minister just said: we can't ask a company to lose them, so we compensate them for that. And then there's hundreds of millions... In fact, there's over a billion in income tax written down. That doesn't fit, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u42	If you're gonna lose, you're gonna settle those losses again. There's a Vpb effect all over the amount. There is a vertical adjustment, which certainly does not bring back the profits of NAM from the recent past. But also about a difference between loss and profit there is a Vpb effect. That's how we calculate it all the time. We've always done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u43	Yes, in the past, yes, because then NAM made huge profits. The Minister has just argued that otherwise they will lose, and we should not have that. But if you don't lose, you have zero profit or almost no profit, and then you don't pay taxes. So the Empire compensates a lot about it, especially if it lasts a long year. I'm just trying to understand that deal. I only got one table and nothing else. I wanted a lot more for the Chamber, but this is what we have to do with, so I'm gonna keep asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u44	There are other activities of NAM than the Groningenveld. It's a bigger company than just this. Then Mr Nijboer asked about the claim, but I should really like to deal with that later, if I have his questions carefully on hand. I'll take that with him later. Then there's the guarantees. Mr Jetten asked two questions about this and Mr Van der Lee one. Mr Jetten has asked whether the underlying capacity is sufficient: are these reasonable guarantees? He also asked: how do we do that at the end of the extraction? Mr Van der Lee also had that last question. It remains, of course, that we first try to ensure that NAM remains viable and remains in a proper way solvent. There's got to be an audit report on that. But it's the situation here that doesn't work, because something great is happening. That is why we have asked the underlying shareholders to give a guarantee. The Minister of Finance and I have assured us in many different ways that they are sufficiently robust. Business confidential information plays a role in this, but I think that such a confidential technical briefing can serve precisely to explain why we consider it to be very solid, and how we have come to believe after some time that these guarantees are in place and that we can therefore assume at any time that the NAM is able to pay for the damage and the reinforcement operation. I am not yet in touch with Mr Van der Lee's questions, but I do see him walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u45	I would suggest that you answer Mr Van der Lee's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u46	I am going to try to answer Mr Van der Lee's questions. Then there are the guarantees after the end of the extraction. So at some point that will stop, but I will say a few words about how that is written. Afterwards, the conversation is not about whether there are sufficient payment guarantees, but only about the payment guarantees. As long as there is no agreement on this, the security of payment must of course remain in its present form. But we are not going to be empty-handed because the State also needs to be able to talk about the form again at that time. For perhaps by then we will have a very different need than guarantees from the underlying oil companies or NAM and perhaps by then we will have other wishes about how the further damage and reinforcement will be compensated. The certainty remains, but there comes a time when you want to reconsider the form. Then there is a question from Mr Jetten and Mrs Beckerman, who has actually been answered very well by Mr Jetten. Last time I answered the question about the old damages. The answer is right: that is still my conviction in the sense that the moment of payment et cetera, et cetera. Meanwhile, by looking at NAM's balance sheet, I know that there is a reservation. This means that the old damages cases, as we have been told by the party that deals with them, are first paid out of that guarantee and that that guarantee was subject to the old distribution of revenue and the old distribution of costs. The answer that a new division is entering is correct; the moment of payment is right; the moment of reservation or the moment of payment is decisive, you can say. However, there is still 1.4 billion to some form of damage, it could be a fall in value, but it is in this case old damages................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So that part goes to the old distribution of profits. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u47	I have a question. Maybe I was too fast, but my question is exactly about the answer you gave after that. That's not clear enough for me. You said that the guarantees will continue to exist at all times, and at the moment that the gas extraction has stopped, we are going to talk again about the form in which it takes place. Does that mean that the NAM has ceased to exist and that it must come directly from the companies? I hear the Minister say no, but what am I supposed to mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u48	No, I assume the parties still exist, so the Dutch State and Groningen still exist, but we need to have a discussion by then to see if the guarantees in this form or in another form should be continued. It's possible. We can also benefit from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u49	Good. Then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u50	Then I'll go to the different spokesmen. Mrs. Beckerman first. She asked: why is it not agreed in the agreement that NAM will refrain from appealing? NAM is about matters the NAM itself is about. This isn't my call. We could have involved it, but we didn't choose to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u51	I see Mrs Beckerman at the interrupting microphone, but I would like to suggest that the Minister answers all her questions first. Then you will have the opportunity to respond, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u52	Then Mrs Beckerman asks about the legal basis for the reinforcement. That's exactly the idea: we wanted the NAM out. In the old days, the NAM had to pay for it, and now the State guarantees it. The Minister of EZK should prevent damage to security and steer the implementation of the reinforcement operation. So, let's get out of here. Then Mrs Beckerman asks if the NAM is no longer liable. That's exactly what she is. That article is being repealed, precisely to ensure that it is. So the bill doesn't change the rules on liability. They will not be put into effect by this bill. Mr Kops asks if we are going to 54 billion cubic metres. He knows the answer: he certainly doesn't. The operational strategy may be inadequate due to unforeseen events. Then you must be able to intervene. This is about cases that you do not foresee, but of course that will not be about this type of volumina, because I would not know where we would have to put that gas in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u53	I have two questions. The first is about the intangible damage. That was an important victory for the Groningen: they won a court case against the NAM on intangible damage. That is very important, because people have a lot of intangible damage. The University of Groningen says 10,000 people have been made sick by all the misery. Why wouldn't you ask the NAM to waive that appeal? You know how important this is to Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u54	There are a lot of points that we could have involved, but this is how it was done. We didn't choose this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u55	That question also focuses on the fact that liability changes. The claim of the residents against the NAM is based on the liability article. If that changes, will you change it with retroactive effect or will it continue to exist in that way? People can no longer claim through the NAM but through the State, which of course is a logical development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u56	I'm gonna take a look just to make sure, but this change isn't gonna change this case. That's right. Then Mr Jetten. Did I mention earlier that putting the whole thing together could take until Prince's Day? No. He also asked whether the letter also lays down the relationship with the old phasing-out path. Does he mean the old exit path or does he mean damage and reinforcement? I'm gonna need a little clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u57	Let me give you a little clarification. Indeed, the Minister has already promised to make the financial impact of the phasing-out path clear. But I would like that to be set aside against the situation where we would have done nothing, the situation where we would have just continued on the old ground, so that we can just compare the new situation with the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u58	Is this about the old gas extraction or the old distribution of profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u59	The old distribution of profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u60	The old distribution of profits. Yeah, I'll try to make that clear. Mr Van der Lee asks whether there is a gap in the duty of care for strengthening. No, it's shifting. There was a duty of care at the NAM, but it is no longer on the gas crane. It's gonna be in the Empire now. You can't give someone who isn't on the gas crane a responsibility for something he doesn't cause. But there's no hole in it, it's shifting. The same kind of question was: why does NAM not pay if the damage is caused solely by the operational strategy? This is actually a question about the bill in consultation. Shouldn't we deal with that? The answer is, of course, that the Empire determines the strategy and that the NAM cannot be held responsible for it. However, the NAM is about the correct implementation of the operational strategy. But perhaps we should keep the questions about a bill that has just gone into consultation, but until the moment it has been tabled, and not deal with it on the last parliamentary day before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u61	And a bill is just being dealt with here, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u62	Certainly, but my problem is that the agreement leads to changes in this law and in a law that is in consultation. Let me then put a more specific question on this point. I am looking at Article 5.7 of the agreement. It states that the NAM shall reimburse all expenditure incurred by the Fund for the implementation of the reinforcement notice, in so far as such expenditure relates to improving safety on the basis of actual inspections. That's what it says. Then we've got the 1,500 properties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u63	Haha, this is a smart point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u64	Yes, should they actually be inspected before the NAM can be addressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u65	I am now going to tell you that, in the light of the opinion of the Mines Council, we can assume that this is being worked out in the spirit of this article and that it is a matter of actual security. I think it's a very good point. We'll take this with us in the process. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u66	You're welcome. But this does illustrate my problem. Not that I don't recognize there's a lot of rush. I want that gas extraction down, too. Moreover, I believe that the existing Mining Act and the agreements already made on a voluntary basis offer sufficient scope to help reduce the extraction of gas. But precisely because it listens so closely to legislation in relation to the agreement, I feel that in more respects it is a bit wobbly. Too wobbly! It also contains an article, such as Article 5.4, which talks about existing agreements. And they must be maintained as much as possible. I think that's vague. What exactly are the similarities here? What changes and what stays the same? That raises a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u67	It is an agreement on broad lines. It's gonna work out. These points will have a legal impact by September. As far as I am concerned, these points are self-evident.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u68	We're not gonna discuss anything that's still coming to the Chamber, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u69	I understand that, but I had also asked whether the Chamber would then be given the Minister's commitment to this follow-up agreement, so that we would also have control of it or at least have a say in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u70	It is clear that the commitment to the contracts is called "the main features of the contract." That is what we are trying to do and, of course, we must take interim changes into account. That is why the law is the law, and this is only an agreement on basics, which is still being worked out. Mr Van der Lee is free to give all possible input to me. He can even see that as part of his controlling task, but I'm not going to present the final contract here. That is a legal effect with these points taken into account. He asked if the agreement should have come after the advice of the Mining Council. That would not necessarily have helped us, because the advice of the Mines Council has yet to be worked out. The translation into costs or lead times, for example, is still to come. In my view, however, this is something that is perfectly conceivable under this agreement as well. I thought I had already given him the guarantee that the Norg/Vpb issue was not a shortcut. He asked me again for insurance on that. I'll give him that assurance again. He says that the State would pay for dialogue residences. We have now created new jargon with the advice of the Mining Council; only the connoisseurs still have it! But if by these dialogue houses the P90 houses are meant, then these are the homes on which we have the kitchen tables. And those are the houses that according to the conventional method of calculation met the standard, but with a greater margin of uncertainty still do not meet the standard. If these homes are reinforced, it is not on the State's account but on the account of the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u71	Finally, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u72	I am not talking about those homes but about the houses that are being strengthened because residents indicate that they want that reinforcement just to be safe. Their promise was made to them, even if their house is not secure. I understand that this must come at the expense of the State. And that touches on the point in the legislative proposal under consultation where it is said that the NAM does not have to pay if the State gives the order or makes a compelling statement that something has to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u73	No. Anyone who has a commitment to strengthen has a reinforcement advice at home. Even if this is done without a commitment or without a signed contract, the NAM pays for it. So the NAM also does that if that person chooses to strengthen his house, even though that house is safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u74	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u75	Mr. Chairman. I say to Mr Nijboer that it is true that we are the well-known... We have discussed it extensively and I will try not to repeat it, but we do give priority to safety in the weighting. We are doing so in the form of a weighting with the extensive parliamentary debate last time. But we cannot encrypt the word "priority" in articles of law. He's asking me about the claim, too. Why have I been abstract about this claim so far? Mr Nijboer once addressed me in the knowledge and at the opportunity. I think that both of these are extremely relevant questions, let me just say. There is nothing to it, but I cannot talk about it in a chamber procedure, because if one way or another the framework conditions of the contract were not to be fulfilled and the Empire would have to decide for some reason not to comply with certain passages in a complex case and a claim could still be discussed, then we would not worry about providing information about our assessment of that claim by this route, because that could harm our procedural position. Explanation in a confidential technical briefing is therefore possible. There can be speculated or philosophized or discussed with depth about both opportunities and heights, but here this cannot be done. Here's what I'm gonna say. I thought he had a different lecture, but it is indeed so, and that is different from that of many other mining situations, which is that the gas is owned by the oil companies. That doesn't mean the claim has that numerical value. He knows that, too. Secondly, I would point out that the claim played a very important role in the negotiations. There are two things I can say about it, but it has to be done in a confidential technical briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u76	Mrs Mulder, you were before, but these are questions from Mr Nijboer. Do you mind if I give Mr Nijboer the floor first? Yeah? Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u77	I do not support this deal, but I do support that the cabinet does not make the assessments public. Then you give Shell and Exxon a legal position gift as well. I'd like to take that confidential briefing because I want to know very precisely: it's about big money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u78	It is also a relevant question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u79	The Minister can answer the other question. Did Shell and Exxon really put this on the table explicitly? They seem to be making a good impression to the outside world: we will never file a claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u80	I have just said that this point has played an essential role in the negotiations. In addition, we talk about it in another setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u81	So we have to conclude that Shell and Exxon actually say to everyone outside: well, we're never going to make those claims when the Groningers need security. We are neat companies and do corporate social responsibility. We have our "principles" and I don't know what else. Eventually, when it came to it and they spoke confidentially to the cabinet, they just negotiated hard to get as much money out of here as possible. That's really news, and that's really serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u82	So there are people who are still waiting for their individual report. Can they get that already? I'm talking about the reinforcements that have been given. Can they get access to that already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u83	When I answered Mr Van der Lee's question about people who have already received reinforcement advice, I naturally referred to the reinforcement advice given in the context of the current operation. Of course, it does not apply to people who have wobbled that thing or voluntarily been given access to it with an exculpatory letter. That's exactly what that letter is about. Mrs Mulder's question is whether people can get their reinforcement advice. I think there is no objection to giving the people who are in the batches who are now continuing to give the reinforcement advice, although the reinforcement advice is much more alarming than it needs to be, as we know now. I wonder if it's very wise to do it. We said that anyone can have it on request. Nothing is secret, but I wouldn't want to scare people with a reinforcement advice that just isn't up-to-date anymore, period. No offense at all, but it's wrong. I don't think we should send people the wrong information. If they insist on having it, you can. But I wouldn't want to do it. I want to give people good information. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u84	When people say "that advice is there for me and I would just like to see it," I understand that they would like to see it, so I welcome this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u85	I would say that it was already possible on request. I wouldn't want to send it automatically, but there's nothing against it if people want to. But it has to be said that this situation is no longer topical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u86	May I know how far along you are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u87	I'm going really fast and I'm almost there. Mr Nijboer also asked why you are not getting an exact number. Why can't it all be passed on? That is quite logical, because the effects of a change in the distribution of revenues are, of course, influenced by, for example, the cost of a strengthening operation and the precise course of gas extraction. Those are all things we know more about by Prince's Day than we do now, at least hopefully. I think I have taken Mrs Mulder's questions and comments to heart. Mrs Yeşilgöz is still asking how the billion will be deployed. That's a question the Groningers are about. Now I'm looking straight at Mrs Yeşilgöz. The Groningers have different goals there. There is a social leg of the program, a village and urban renewal leg and an economic leg. This is really something the Groningers need to do. The Empire has not only declared its solidarity, but also feels the pressure on its shoulders to make it a success and feels bound to do so. It's gonna be a national program. We're both excited about that, but we have to give it a flying start. Eventually, it's in those three pillars. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm out of questions. I still have the motions. Now I'm not so strong administratively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u88	Which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u89	Two amendments have been added.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u90	And one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u91	Two, I think. Numbers 43 and 44?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u92	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u93	Numbers 43 and 44, because number 44 replaces number 42, which also replaced 24. Yeah, we did that game last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u94	Yeah, no, I followed that. That went all wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u95	That's when I got the blame!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u96	It was late at night, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u97	I just cashed it in. The amendment in part No. 43, a temporary measure. This is a strengthening of Article 52e. This I leave to judge Chamber. Then we have the amendment to item No. 44. Against the amendment in part No. 24 I objected, but this I also leave Judgment Chamber. Then I would like to draw attention to motions which have also been tabled, but which I had not yet mentioned. There's a motion on part No. 45 by Mr Nijboer and others I do not think that I am being asked for a ruling. Only members are asked for an opinion. Then there is Mr Nijboer's request to share all the opinions. I think I just answered that. So I must advise against this, but I have a commitment to deal with it in a confidential technical briefing. Then there is a motion by Mr Nijboer to combine the effects of all aspects of gas extraction in Groningen into one budget article. That makes it easier for Mr Nijboer to exercise his democratic control over that budget article. That's his right, and I understand him, too. I do not think the request is nonsense, but I am going to debunk something, namely that since 29 March I have been trying to separate the two types of gas benefits, small fields and Groningen, and to bring together the aspects of Groningen in one overview. Now I'm gonna say something weird, but it's fair. It's true, too. I would say that we can, because we have in the past broken down by different percentages that two things, so it should be possible to split the gas benefits of the small fields from those of Groningen. It should be possible. The truth, however, is that, according to all the specialists I am speaking, and I have been working on this since 29 March, it is not and is not feasible. So let me put it this way: because I feel very much about it myself, not because of Mr Nijboer's blocking influences, but it is his right, but because I myself feel about it from a point of view of hygiene, I am prepared to investigate it. If it does not succeed, is it possible to transfer the gas benefits from Article 5 to Article 4 (b) or is it the other way around? But then you have the small fields, the non-Groninger gas benefits. I do not think that is what Mr Nijboer is trying to do. So I wanted to promise to investigate this. Maybe he can hold the motion. I can't leave her judgment room right now, but I can take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u98	If I agree to this explanatory statement, the motion can get a fine judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u99	Yes, but can I read it as "calls the government to investigate whether and how?" Then we'll record this and then I'll give him judgment room. I am going to investigate this because, despite Mr Nijboer's evil intentions, I do agree with him in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u100	This is a motion that only Mr Nijboer and the Minister know, apparently, but everyone is fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u101	So it is about the motion in part No. 10 submitted to the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u102	No, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u103	Yeah, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u104	They've been numbered by now, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u105	The seventh and the eighth. I think I'm through it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u106	Yeah? Well, then we've come to this at the end of the third term of treatment of the Gas Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-45.u107	We shall be voting on the motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal tonight. I thank the Minister.
