ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the report by the Committee of Inquiry into Sexual Harassment and Abuse in Sport. Six speakers have signed up for this debate. The first speaker is Mrs. Diertens. She will speak on behalf of the D66 Group. Mrs. Diertens, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are having a very important debate. As in many other places in society, there is also sexual harassment and abuse in the sports world. We are holding this debate on the basis of the report by the De Vries Committee and also on the basis of the round table organized here in the Chamber. I would therefore like to thank everyone who informed the Chamber and who was there for the input. Firstly, I would like to talk about the proposed reporting obligation. It is a good thing that victims are not subject to reporting obligations. As important as it is that every case is reported, it goes too far for us to demand from victims something so profound. We understand the call for a reporting obligation for boards of associations. After all, we do not want governance to look away, to act decisively and to have the conversation. However, we still see a lot of hooks and eyes, because the direction must always remain with the victim. He or she must be ready to report the abuse or intimidation. The day before yesterday, NOC*NSF agreed to the obligation to report on driving. With regard to this reporting obligation, I ask the Minister whether a director is also obliged to report if the victim does not yet want to report it. Even more important than a reporting obligation is, as far as we are concerned, increasing the willingness to report. We need to make sure that every report is taken seriously. This requires a major cultural change in sport. The culture in sport is very closed. Yesterday, the report of the KNWU confirmed that. I am glad that the KNWU has held out the mirror and started working on this problem. From now on, it has to be clear: no means no. The whole MeToo campaign has already raised awareness, not only among victims, who dare to express themselves more and more, but also in the surroundings, who choose to look away less often. The Centre for Safe Sport can make an effort to promote this important cultural change. It is important that we learn from the experiences of the Centre Sexual Violence. This is a central hotline that works for society as a whole. It combines expertise from psychologists, doctors and police. The Centre for Safe Sport should refer serious reports to the Centre for Sexual Violence. With the Center of Sexual Violence, we avoid fragmentation. That's what it was founded for. Good registration will prevent abusers from hopping from sector to sector. Can the Minister draw attention to combating this fragmentation and hopping from sector to sector? For cases where the victim still has doubts about the seriousness of his or her story, information can be requested from the Centre for Safe Sports. This center could, for example, support this type of help with a chat function. Think, for example, of touching where you start to feel uncomfortable or a trainer who makes sexual innuendo. For questions about this, young people must be able to find a place to go in an easily accessible way. Moreover, such a chat function fits much more with this time. Would the Minister like to examine whether a chat function can be added to the Centre for Safe Sports and what is being done with reports from the Centre for Safe Sports? Are the data, of course anonymized, kept so that lessons can be learned? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. As I said, it is important that we have this debate. I therefore look forward to the input of my colleagues and the Minister and hope that together with the sports world we can tackle this social problem quickly and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. Mr Van Nispen of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u4	At the sports club, a place for relaxation, you have to be safe. And of course, you also want your child to be safe there. It's really unbearable if it turns out it's not. We've heard terrible stories, including in the round table. It's touching. Abuse and intimidation of the trainer you trust and which to some extent you also depend on is downright horrible. I would like to thank the De Vries Committee for its valuable research. Compliments also for the reactions from sports and government. The recommendations are largely accepted and taken up, which is, of course, justified. But we're still a long way from here. First of all, we must make sure that we do the best we can to prevent abuse. Awareness and prevention are an important task for sport, because anyone who thinks it is not or is not common will not notice it either. If the abuse has taken place, it must be reported and reported. The final point is that the perpetrators are being dealt with and the victims are being taken care of. That's why I'm still worried. Because all the stories of victims show that guidance around and after reporting is the most important thing for them. Does the Minister see this, and what are we going to do about it, that victims will experience it, that they will be taken care of and supervised? The function of a trusted person is very important. A listening ear and then tips to refer. The trust should be able to provide advice and help with follow-up actions. But what's that gonna look like? For example, is there going to be a central pool of professional confidants and, if not, what then? I agree that the role of trusted person and the hotline should be separate, but as it is now proposed, the hotline will remain in sport. The question we need to ask is: what exactly is the role of the government? Van Vollenhoven and Professor Olfers both advocated a central public-law hotline. And I do feel something for that. We need to offer victims of abuse a safe place to report. The unorganised athlete must also be able to go there. It must be independent, safe and accessible and, above all, it must be able to operate across sectors. Because, of course, abuse doesn't just occur in sport. How do you prevent that one wrong trainer from working elsewhere or in another sector, such as scouting, education or care? Information cannot and must not always be shared and this problem can be reduced with a central hotline. How does the Minister see this? Can I have an extensive response to this? Is the Minister prepared to discuss such a proposal with Van Vollenhoven and Professor Olfers? I still lack a response to two specific recommendations. How can it be that the early termination of membership of a sports association can lead to disciplinary impunity? How does the Minister see that? The Minister for Justice and Security has been recommended to examine the extent to which the lack of capacity in the police and the judiciary has caused so few perpetrators to be dealt with and convicted. Can that question today be answered with a "yes, we're going to do that, we're going to investigate"? Yesterday, the cycling union came up with an investigation, to be seen as a follow-up to the investigation by the De Vries Committee, but specifically about cycling, with fierce conclusions, for example about inciting weight loss. I believe that this sector research is very valuable. Does the Minister share my view that other sports associations could follow that example? Is he willing to provide co-financing? After all, it is also a public task to prevent abuse and intimidation and to protect victims. The sporting world is not the first sector in which abuse proved to be a major problem. Previously, we had research into abuse in the Roman Catholic Church and youth care. The common thread in all these investigations is that there is still not a good picture of the extent and development of the number of cases of abuse. Is the government prepared to have this examined periodically by scientists, to continue monitoring developments and to report to the Chamber on them? A second important request to the government is to continue to monitor the effectiveness of all measures taken. Many measures from the reports of De Winter, Samson, Deetman and De Vries have been taken. Much has changed and improved on paper. Is the government prepared to review periodically what has happened to the recommendations of the various committees of inquiry and to report on the effects achieved? Mr. Chairman. I am not making up these last two recommendations myself. They come from a chamber committee that has listed all these investigations and is actually asking the government to do so. I hope, therefore, that there will be commitments to these two questions, so that I do not have to make any motions on them later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Mrs Bruins Slot has the floor. It is speaking on behalf of the Christian Democratic Apple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. Blackmail, bullying and sexual harassment are sheerness and impact in cycling. Women between 12 and 21 years of age are at greatest risk. That's what the investigation that appeared yesterday revealed. The CDA finds this objectionable. This has to stop. That is why the work of the De Vries Committee of Inquiry has been so very important. The CDA therefore thanks the Committee of Inquiry for the work she has done, which has, of course, been intense and emotional at times. The De Vries Committee has drawn hard conclusions, for example, that problems have been looked away, but has also made a lot of good recommendations, which focus on prevention, reporting and tackling problems. This is not just about rules and structures, but also about cultural change, as Mrs Diertens said. The sport sector is the first step. NOC*NSF and the sports associations have already done a lot of work in recent months. Of course, there is also a role for this minister. I am referring to this role of the Minister in the rest of my speech, because I would like to know more about what exactly the Minister is going to do. Prevention. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that additional money would be made available to enable more free statements on behaviour. Can the Minister indicate whether volunteers in sport, such as disabled sport, are specifically included in this enlargement? A second point concerns the debate on whether or not associations should be able to easily obtain a free explanation of behaviour, whether or not they should have a whole integrity policy. That does not seem to be a good idea for the CDA, because if an association is willing to apply for explanations of behaviour, it should be a low threshold. Does the Minister agree with this view? In several parts of society it is now common that, even when it comes to explanations of behaviour, there is continuous screening. Over time, it will be checked whether or not someone has had a criminal conviction. Often then the supervisor is informed that this is the case. Is it possible to allow a form of continuous screening for sport? Would the Minister like to discuss this with NOC*NSF? A second point is the willingness to report. It seems that more than one colleague has already mentioned the need for a central hotline. That's important. Sometimes people, victims, won't want to report to the board of that association. Because of course, it may also be that a government is sometimes part of the abuses that are taking place here. Is it true that the Centre for Safe Sport now becomes that central hotline where you can go if you can't go to other places? The second is indeed about the separation that the Sport Trust Point still has. This has both the role of hotline and the role of supporting the victims. Nor does the CDA consider this intertwinedness desirable. But the question is now, where are the victims going to end up? I also found the SP to have some legitimate questions about this, how do we make sure that support and support for victims gets better? Because you can also see in sport that children are the biggest victims. 60% of the misery caused by the abuses are young children under the age of 16. What are the possibilities, I ask the Minister, for parents to be able to identify the abuses, the abuse that is taking place earlier? Then dealing with problems. NOC*NSF has indicated that she thinks it is very important to work with the Public Prosecutor's Office. How can information exchange be improved? It is also a recurring problem, and I come almost to a conclusion that it is not clear from the system of the Public Prosecutor and the police that someone convicted is also a supervisor, trainer or coach in sport. How better to exchange that with each other? Finally, I would also like to make a plea for NOC*NSF to ensure that there is a general public campaign on the subject of sexual harassment in sport and wider in society, to make people aware of it. It starts with that awareness. Is the Minister prepared to launch such a large campaign? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. The next speaker from the Chamber will now have the floor. That is Mrs Dijksma, speaking on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I think it is crystal clear to everyone that the impact of sexual abuse on often young and always vulnerable children is, of course, enormous. The victims - the Chamber - have also been able to speak some of these victims - have been signed for life. This impact can be seen not only with the victims but also with parents and the associations themselves. In the end, of course, it's because we're all here, and I'm sure Mother too, that your child is literally in safe hands at the moment you bring it to a football club or to the tennis club. Of safety for the whole hundred percent, we can see that it may not exist. But if you look at the report by the De Vries committee, Mrs Bruins Slot has just said a few words about this, it has become crystal clear that it really can and must be done better by the sports associations. That is why I think it is very good, first of all, that the committee has done this work, made concrete recommendations and that NOC*NSF and the sports federations have also started to adopt the recommendations. Of course, it can speak for itself that all those volunteers are working with their club that day in, day out, together with the professionals must ensure that the environment is safe. I would like to say here that I found the letter the Minister sent with his reaction, including the committee's report, very adequate. In my view, the cabinet also shows that it is taking the subject very seriously. I wasn't expecting anything else either, I'll be honest with you. But also the full adoption of the recommendations, e.g. the promotion of shorter procedures in the Public Prosecutor's Office if criminal law also requires a number of things. And also to promote statements of behaviour, as requested in the motion tabled jointly by Mrs Westerveld and the undersigned. In that respect, I would like to add a comment that Mrs Bruins Slot just made and which I myself had on the retina. The Minister writes fine words about it: we are going to pick it up, there will also be a new arrangement for those vogs. How is the Minister going to give hands and feet to the fact that in the end it is normal in sport for you to be able to make such a statement? There are still a few points I would like to draw attention to. The first important point is: how are we going to prevent, in concrete terms, people who have previously been convicted of sexual abuse from reappearing at another association? Are there really sufficient safeguards, with all the recommendations that have been made, to prevent this? Is this gonna happen with the State's Attorney's Office? The second point is to ensure a safe environment in the sports association. Of course, it stands or falls with all those people who are active there. The cabinet describes what is happening to train drivers, trainers and coaches, but as has just been said: many of the clubs have a lot of volunteers around. In fact, most clubs are of course just dependent on volunteers. What opportunities does the cabinet see for helping volunteers to create that safe environment, for example as a trusted person? The last point has just been raised by Mr Van Nispen. It concerns the discussion that has arisen about a central hotline for sexual abuse in sport. The committee is hesitant about this and says: beware now that you are not actually going to place everything outside the sport, because they have to solve it themselves. But Mr Van Vollenhoven and Professor Olfers argue the opposite. I have not been able to find out exactly what the cabinet's position is now. Perhaps we should start the debate by asking the Minister's opinion on this too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mrs Dijksma. Mrs Westerveld has the floor. Mrs Westerveld has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Wherever people work out, a safe environment is very important. It is good that the fight against sexual harassment and abuse by the sports world itself is arrested under the leadership of NOC*NSF. In his response to the report, the Minister points to them. Few of the committee's recommendations were addressed to this minister, but we still have a number of questions in this debate about the role of the minister, because we believe that the few recommendations that are being made are easily dismissed. For example, the Minister writes that research shows that there is no need to change laws and regulations. We are very curious about that investigation. Our first question is whether the Minister can send that to us. Another recommendation in the report was that ministries should cooperate more, but in the Minister's letter we read in particular that this led to more consultation. My question to the Minister is what results he expects from these consultations. What about cooperation with municipalities and what does the Minister think about 83% of municipalities not having an active policy when it comes to sexual harassment and abuse in sport? There are also athletes who are not affiliated with sports associations, such as recreational swimmers or people who go to the gym. Who can they contact in case of an incident? Does the Minister see a role for him when it comes to this target group? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mrs. Bruins Slot would like to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u12	As a football star, Mrs Westerveld has the dribble in it. I would like to go back to a point she made earlier, because I think that is a relevant point. It's about the role of municipalities. The report makes it very clear that municipalities can still make a move to help sports associations on this important issue. On Monday evening NOC*NSF made comments about this, in which Mrs Westerveld was also present. My question to Mrs Westerveld is: how would she like municipalities to pick this up? What role can the Minister play in this respect, according to Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u13	We deliberately asked questions about this to the Minister, because I find it very difficult. On the one hand, the Committee notes that municipalities can do more, also because municipalities, of course, finance a lot of sports clubs and associations, especially when it comes to housing. On the other hand, of course, we are not in charge of what is happening in the municipalities. So I would like to hear from the Minister that was also our question. What does he think now that few municipalities seem to be dealing with this issue? Maybe the Minister, I'll make an advance, could take this with him in his consultation with, for example, the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u14	The CDA is struggling with the same problem. We are not about municipalities and what they do there. That's up to them. But we do share the view that the Minister would, for example, check with the UNG to see if there are any additional issues to think of. I think that's a good suggestion. Would the recommendation made be an option to look at how sports accommodations are designed so that they are more transparent? This can also ensure that there is no more room for abuse of certain forms of abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u15	That's an interesting suggestion. We also heard this during the hearing, where the example of a transparent space was given. Then you can see who's in that room with who. This could, of course, be taken with the municipality, especially when it comes to new construction, for example in terms of subsidy conditions for new sports associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u16	Please continue, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u17	I had stayed with the statement of good behavior. Mrs Dijksma has already pointed out that a motion from both of us has been adopted earlier, which asked to ensure that sports associations often have a statement about behaviour, a vog. In his letter, the Minister indicated: that's standing policy, we're working on it. But for example, only one in three sports drivers still owns a vog and only half of the trainers and coaches. Ten years ago NOC*NSF said: we want to investigate this, we want to see if we can make such a vog mandatory. That did not happen at the time, because the costs were a major obstacle. In the meantime, the policy is that such a vog is free. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider with NOC*NSF whether, now that the cost barrier has been removed, we can make such a vog mandatory or what else we can do so that more trainers and coaches are in possession of it? Only about half of all sports associations have a trusted person and few athletes know about their existence. Is it perhaps desirable and possible to require clubs, perhaps with several clubs together, to appoint a trusted person?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u18	Are you almost done, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u19	I have a minute and a half left, I see on my bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u20	Yeah, sorry, I was looking at the wrong timer. Please continue. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u21	For trainers and coaches it is sometimes difficult to recognise sexual cross-border behavior. NOC*NSF offers separate courses, but it is not in the professional competence profiles established by NOC*NSF for trainers and coaches. Especially now that they have a reporting responsibility, GroenLinks seems important to include the recognition and reporting of sexual behaviour in these competence profiles. Can the Minister discuss this with NOC*NSF? My final point concerns the victims. The report states that sportspeople with disabilities in particular have increased vulnerability. One in three sportsmen with disabilities has experienced sexual transversal behavior. That's a bizarrely high number, one in three. There are more risk groups, e.g. lhbt athletes. One in four of them has to do with sexual transversal behavior. A specific approach for this group is not reflected in the plans. I would like to ask the Minister whether he sees a specific responsibility for himself in that. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we need to pay particular attention to these vulnerable groups. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It is good that the subject of sexual harassment and abuse is on the agenda, on our agenda and on the agenda of the various unions, but we do hope that it will actually land with the sports associations themselves. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether he can ensure that we carry out a good evaluation together with the sports world, for example within two years, which shows clearly what all these plans have brought to the associations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Mr Rudmer Heerema has the floor and he is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. If your child is a member of a sports club, you should be able to assume that your child is safe there, that there are enthusiastic trainers and volunteers, sweet and fun fellow athletes, and if a child is going to do top sports, a professional environment to reach the top. However, the figures in the De Vries report show a worrying picture. I would like to make a number of comments which may help us to avoid more, to act more professionally and to punish faster and harder after a more rapid follow-up to a report. Mr. Chairman. I therefore first have a number of questions concerning sanctions and declarations. On 27 March 2018, a motion from colleagues Grootehuizen, Van Oosten and Buitenweg was adopted asking whether and how to extend the reporting obligation in the case of child abuse. My question to the Minister is whether he can give hands and feet to this motion within sport. And, Mr President, yesterday, a motion by colleagues De Jong and Markuszower was adopted asking for a life-long ban on sex offenders, among other things, on the practice of a child-centred profession. Is the Minister going to work out this motion with the De Vries committee in mind within sport? Let me be very clear: the punishment for abusers must be stretched as far as possible so that they can never work with children again. In the hearing it appeared that filing a report is a difficult and long journey. We can't do this and we can't do this. NOC*NSF goes in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police to see if this can be better arranged. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to facilitate this in order to obtain the following desired outcome: that any abused athlete can simply file a report, that a report is followed up and that interested parties, such as NOC*NSF and sports associations, are kept informed so that measures can be taken. What is also important is that the route of reporting and follow-up should be as short as possible. The suffering is already big enough and a painful and dragging follow-up is really undesirable. Mr. Chairman. When you become a sports driver at a local sports club, you do it out of love for the sport. In my opinion, no one thinks that there may be a need to act because of abuse within an association and how to deal with it. We can't expect that from these drivers right away. The best we can do is help them. Helping to better deal with reports and ensure that they can take the right steps within the association and towards the sports union. For example, we have the budget of safe sports climate. I would like to know from the Minister whether he is prepared to find out, in the run-up to the budget, how we can help these sports drivers to professionalise so that they can act better and faster. I can imagine that there will be a new prioritisation and a shift of resources within this budget. The recommendations in the De Vries report are mainly for the sports world itself. On the NOC*NSF alv where some of our colleagues were, the sports federations unanimously supported the adoption of the recommendations, including with regard to the driver hotline. The VVD is in favour of this hotline if it helps to better combat abuse. Mr. Chairman. There's a report that looks back and makes recommendations. We must note that there is a great deal wrong in the field of sport abuse, not only now but also in the past. For this reason, I think it would be wise for the Minister, for example, to ask NOC*NSF on a six-monthly basis about the progress of adopting the recommendations and their impact. Unfortunately, wherever dependency relationships are, abuse takes place, whether it be the church, mental health care or apparently the sport. It is up to us to make sure that there is a change, that perpetrators are punished and victims are helped. That is why it is important to keep an eye on what is improving within the sports world. Mr President, my final paragraph. I would like to devote this paragraph to those athletes who have told us in the private conversation about what they have been through. Brave, enlightening and brave. Thank you. Your story contributes enormously to the ability to take steps against abuse in sport. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. Then we have come to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he needs 15 minutes to prepare his response, so we will suspend the sitting until half past three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u25	The next item is the first term of office. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u26	That's very nice, Mr. Chairman, but with your permission, I'm going to put my things in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u27	I was reminded by the clerk here on my right that I must say: the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u28	It's very good of you to say that. Mr President, I think it is very good and very important that we speak today about the report by the De Vries Committee. I think it's important that everyone can have fun in sports. You have actually all delivered the same message in your own words: to have fun in sports, you must be able to feel safe when you are sports. If you're dealing with sexual harassment or sexual abuse, there's no fun in prosecuting it like that. This is a shadowy side of society where athletes are particularly vulnerable, because in sport physical contact is often inevitable and athletes depend on each other, on trainers and on coaches. You said it, and I also say it: sexual harassment and sexual abuse are unacceptable, we have to stop it, in society, in sport and everywhere. I thought it was Mrs. Diertens who first referred to #MeToo. By #MeToo fortunately more and more people dare to tell their stories, stories that we cannot and do not want to close our eyes to in society. They're stories that allow us to really do something about it. That is why I am pleased that the issue here in this Chamber is being so highlighted and that so many good suggestions have been made for promoting safe sports. As I indicated in my letter of 4 April, NOC*NSF has worked hard on an action plan in recent months. In that action plan, NOC*NSF takes up all the recommendations of the De Vries Committee. And there are a whole pride: if I have counted well, there are 38. I believe that almost all of you were at Papendal last Monday, where the recommendations of the De Vries Committee were also discussed, and where a new disciplinary regulation has been adopted which lays down the obligation to report to sports drivers. There is therefore a reporting obligation for directors and a reporting responsibility for members. And to finish up here, I say that NOC*NSF will see what measures can be taken in the labour law sphere for people who work in sport to tackle sexual harassment. I like the way that measures are taken. I congratulate NOC*NSF for the speed. What is very important to us is that we keep a close eye on the effects of these measures. I will come back to that later. That NOC*NSF action plan was adopted last Monday in the general Assembly of Members, which was also in the news. The sport sector is firmly committed to measures and the government will support them. The suggestions that have been made here or are being made later are often discussed with NOC*NSF, so that this action plan can be further improved. Of course, the sport sector is not only doing it, because there is already experience of tackling sexual abuse outside the sports sector. The sport wants to take advantage of that experience and find the connection. I would remind you that we are in the process of making a sports agreement. The subject of sexual harassment and the fight against it will also be a matter of urgency. I hope to prove that to you next month, because I hope that I will finish the draft text of that sports agreement. I'm finishing my introduction. Together we have the same goal, namely a pleasant and safe sports environment for everyone. You've emphasised all that. There are, of course, a number of suggestions to be made about the implementation. You have asked questions about this and I would now like to try to answer them per speaker. I shall begin with the questions raised by Mrs Diertens of D66. Her first question was whether there was a reporting obligation for victims. No. That's what Mrs. Diertens said. What if the victim doesn't want to be reported? Can a driver report if the victim doesn't want to? That was Mrs Diertens' question. It can't be. The principle is and remains that the victim must be in charge. So what if the victim doesn't want to report, because, for example, the victim isn't ready for re-experience yet? Should the driver go against the victim's wishes? The answer is no. The choice to report or not to report is always with the victim himself. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another question that Mrs Diertens asked. Can attention be paid to the fragmentation that is lurking as a sports driver or a person who is abusing "hopes" - I think that is the word that Mrs Diertens has used - from one association to another? It is difficult to give a clear answer to this. The maximum wager on free vog's on the one hand and the handling of a blacklist on the other hand, called in the neat jargon a "registration list".I think is the best guarantee to prevent that fragmentation from occurring. That registration list exists. Enlargement is being looked at for all volunteers in collaboration with the Dutch voluntary organisation. So measures have been taken, but I will be the first to say that it is not yet a definitive system, because that 'hopping' is difficult to avoid. Then there is another question put by Mrs Diertens, President, on the use of a chat function, so that young people who have questions about the subject of sexual harassment can get rid of them in an easily accessible way. Mrs Diertens mentioned in another conversation that other organisations also use such a chat function. I find that an interesting thought. Victim support The Netherlands is already experimenting with it and has positive experiences. I would like to combine those experiences, receive them. Then I would like to take a look together with NOC*NSF to see if such a chat function is also available at the Centre for Safe Sports. You have all talked about the Centre for Safe Sports. That is the successor to the trust point. NOC*NSF may take a while to get that all up and about, but such a chat function may be a useful tool. So I will talk about this with NOC*NSF, I say in the direction of Mrs Diertens. What is being done with reports to the Centre for Safe Sports? Is there automatic anonymization? This is perhaps one of the most interesting recommendations followed by NOC*NSF, namely to set up a case management system. You said it all in different ways. How can we prevent the knowledge about the report and also the help to the victim from running away, that we can continue to follow it? NOC*NSF has indicated that it will set up a case management system, precisely with the aim of better monitoring and monitoring of notifications. I find that an interesting thought. Of course, case management is one thing, while there are always rules of privacy that are important. But following actions and tracking people who report needing help, after which that help is also offered, can be done via such a case management system. I see all kinds of practical issues in their development, but I think it is a very good idea, in combination with the duty of reporting to drivers, that adapted disciplinary regulations and the establishment of the Centre for Safe Sport. I think that could be ready in the course of 2019, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u29	I've read another study on tackling child sexual exploitations in sports. This clearly shows that sport cannot solve the problem alone. It's not just about recording and measuring. I am so afraid that we will end up in all kinds of systems, whereas this investigation actually means that the victim, who must remain at the centre and at the centre, must be in the lead and that the aid should be as close to home as possible. Does the action plan go so far that it will all be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr. Chairman. It is very important that we are not only reported as cases, but that there are also helping victims where necessary and possible. That role has so far been at the Sport Trust Point. That role will no longer be at the Centre for Safe Sports. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked for that. Why not? Because it was one of the recommendations of the De Vries Committee to report and help to break up. I think that's a good point. But that referral to professional assistance for the victim, which may be even more important than the case management system.... you can think of Victim Help The Netherlands or the Centres Sexual Violence, but also of an organization that I did not know yet, namely Perspective Recovery Mediation.. will be done by the Centre for Safe Sport. That's a referral. I think it is right and proper that it should land with a professional party. I think that it is interesting for sports associations, sports associations, but perhaps not entirely in the last place for us to follow, not at name level, but at numbers or kind of case-management system, how such a case-management system is set up. I hope that I will give a good answer to that question from Mrs Diertens, President. Then a number of questions were asked by Mr Van Nispen. Does the Minister, asked Mr Van Nispen first, also see that the most important thing is to take care of and accompany victims? Yes. In fact, I would like to say that it would be very best if we could achieve this through a safe sports climate, by making culture in sports and by making building regulations, as Mrs Bruins Slot called, so that they are helpful to make you feel safe at your sports association. So here too, prevention would always be better. But help is important. You have said it before: we do not have the sports associations on a string and we do not have the sports unions on a string. But here too I want to use the instrument of the sports agreement, which is also signed by the VNG or its counterpart, Sport and Municipalities. I'm still looking for the right shape, because 380 signatures I don't think are a handy model. I would like to pay attention to, for example, planning about integrity. Where they are not yet, you can play loan neighbor to another organization. Municipalities could play a role in this. Or take the expansion of the vogs. I will send you further information on this before the summer. I have promised you this before, and I repeat it here. Sometimes it happens that helping to apply for a dog is useful and necessary. I would like to look for a budget for this, so that it is made easier for associations that are still seeing objections for financial reasons. Then we can offer them some kind of support. A completely different measure is at issue when there is a case of sexual harassment or abuse brought before the disciplinary court. Then it may be necessary for us to support the victim financially. I have informed the Disciplinary Institute about this: the Institute of Sports Justice. Such matters are not so costly in terms of money, but it may be very important that they are met. Then you should not think of millions of euros, but rather of several tens of thousands of euros. I'm checking that out. That should not be an obstacle to helping victims. These are a number of examples I would like to give to outline my interest in the matter and also my share. In my view, Mrs Westerveld raised the question whether the Minister was not doing laundry in the direction of NOC*NSF. I think it is very important that the sports associations take their own responsibility. It's their members, their directors. They are in close contact with them. Already a biennial study is being conducted by NOC*NSF. It addresses measures, claims and actions relating to this subject of sexual abuse and intimidation. I'm very attached to that investigation. In the coming years I would also like to have this from NOC*NSF. I'd like to present it to you as well. In addition, I would like to agree with you that at least every year during the legislative consultation we will discuss progress on this issue, as concretely as possible on the basis of what I get and know from NOC*NSF and what I make of it. I'll take your questions into account as well. Then the theme never goes off our plate. I don't think we should be afraid of that. I went to Papendal on Monday, too. I attended part of the sports convention in the afternoon. Addressing sexual abuse and intimidation is an appropriate issue for all the unions, for everyone I have spoken to there. So I'm not afraid that the subject will fall off the board. But it might help if we also let our eyes fall on it and have the conversation about it ourselves. I have therefore referred to you as that biennial prevalence study, and in any case I would like to report to you at the legislative consultation in the last quarter, which seems to me to be a useful moment. I had to say that before I came to answer the other questions put by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u31	But first you have an interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u32	I thought it appropriate to ask my question now, in the context of this subject, despite the fact that the Minister has gone into what Mr Van Nispen said in his speech. It's about the prevalence study. I very much welcome the Minister's promise that we will discuss this every year. At the end of my speech, I said that I think it is a good thing that it is on the agenda here. I can also see that it is on the agenda at NOC*NSF. Everyone is working on this, but the question is, of course, how do we ensure that the sports associations themselves are working on this issue? Can the Minister specifically include this question in that prevalence study?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u33	If I understand correctly, if I do not, then I do hear that it is also a bit of a question of the awareness campaign, of the focus on the subject as such. I need a little more time for that, because I want to discuss this with the sports sector. The subject is discussed in the discussion of the sports agreement, but I would like to hear from the unions first of all how they are opposed to it. I welcome the idea of an awareness campaign or an awareness campaign. I do feel like I am actively carrying out the message "we want to work out safely," which is your message, but asking as "in what way and at what time?" And 'what about the involvement of sports associations, for example', I want to involve in the conclusion of the sports agreement. To be precise, I do this in two parts. I'll make that sports deal before the summer. The subject we are discussing this afternoon is certainly on the agenda, but there will always be a need for action, and I will need time to do so after the summer. So the easiest answer could be "yes, we do such a campaign," but I need a campaign that is also carried from the field. That's why I need to talk to the field about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u34	I understand the reaction very well. I also understand that a little more time is needed, but for the sake of clarity: I am not necessarily concerned with a campaign; I am really concerned that this issue should be dealt with by the associations themselves. I am concerned that they are working on this and that it does not stick with politics or with the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u35	Of course, but I thought I had just given an answer in the direction of Mr Van Nispen. We need the municipalities to do this. They get an active role. I also mention them in the sports agreement. Municipalities feel the same way. Helping to create an integrity plan is an example, but you could organize sports cafés that seem a bit crazy in this context to organize that awareness properly at association level. Whether "sport café" is the good word is the question, but municipalities could encourage the organisation of meetings on this theme on sports associations. I'm talking about that. In this way, you could, with municipalities and sports associations, ensure that you pay attention to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u36	I have already seen some overlap with a question by Mr Van Nispen about periodically informing the Chamber about the state of play on the recommendations. My question to the Minister is: is this also the answer to my question if, when this prevalence study comes to the Chamber in November at the legislative consultation, we look back on the steps that have been taken? 38 recommendations have been made. I want to have a reflection on that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u37	I thought Mr Heerema's question was to inform the Chamber twice a year about the progress made. If you add it up, biannually one year and one year the other, you can't quite reach a moyenne of six months. I am therefore happy to report on the progress made in relation to the recommendations of the De Vries Committee. I actually wanted to do that every year in that legislative consultation, unless we have an issue that needs more specific attention. In that case, I feel the freedom to come to you earlier with a letter on a topicality or on a specific subject that needs to be highlighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u38	That's an excellent answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u39	Okay. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u40	I was referring to Mr Van Nispen's second question. We've got a little more time, right? It's not 5:00 and we started later. Is there going to be a nationwide pool of confidants? I honestly don't know if that topic has ever been part of a conversation at NOC*NSF. I can imagine something on the one hand, but I also have hesitations on the other. The other day, I checked with the judo club where I used to play sports, to see if there was a trusted person. That's right. That's a board member. Why did it become that person? Because that person is also involved in professional life, i.e. in the work that that person does, with issues relating to professional behaviour. Then it can be a good choice to appoint such a person as a trusted person. You can also say that's too close, because it's a board member of the association. Shouldn't that be a little further? If it's a bit further away, maybe the idea of a pool comes more around the corner, because it is someone who has certain competences but doesn't come from the association itself. That makes it easier for someone to approach. I don't know. I think this is a difficult question, but I would like to discuss this with NOC*NSF, because it is your wish, a chamber-wide wish, and also my wish that, if something so terrible happens to you, we make it easy for people to experience the safety to be able to report to their association or, if they do not want to, to the Centre for Safe Sport. If a pool can be helpful, I shouldn't forget that, but that's my cautious first reaction. I hope that's enough for you. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Bruins Slot asked a question about the separation of tasks at what the Trust Point Sport is doing and what the Centre for Safe Sport is about to do. That breaking up of reporting and helping was a recommendation from De Vries. At the moment are reporting and accompanying the two tasks of the Sport Trust Point. In the new situation, NOC*NSF is working towards this goal. This reporting function will still be at the Centre for Safe Sport. In addition, there are a number of tasks for that centre. One important of these is the referral to professional help for victims. This happens again with professional parties; that's what you come up with. I have just mentioned three parties. In addition, it is intended that the Centre for Safe Sport can serve as a centre of expertise, so that you can go there as an association with questions, and that elements of registration and monitoring take place there. I mentioned the case management system that will be set up. There, therefore, the attention to follow-up of a notification will be monitored. All that is not one-two-three, but that will be there in the course of 2019. I think it's important for us to follow that. I hope that this was an answer to the questions about the division of those responsibilities. What comes to one and what comes to the other? It is also clear what the role of this Centre for Safe Sport is. Mr Van Nispen's question is whether I am prepared to speak with Mr Van Vollenhoven. The willingness to speak with him is, of course, very great, but it does not necessarily have to be on this point. I believe that the argument about his view on the creation of a national reporting point on the government side, which has just been referred to by one of the Members of Parliament as "a public service hotline," has changed well, for example in the hearing. I think that with the recommendations adopted in Papendal on Monday, with which the new disciplinary regulations have been adopted and with which we organise the Centre for Safe Sport at that level, with the endorsement of all the affiliated unions I will be entering into good agreements on the division of roles: what should a driver do, what should a volunteer do and what should a member of the association do? That's what we've agreed on. The way NOC*NSF has taken on this role and task gives me a lot of confidence. And we monitor that. We're not gonna shove that off of us; we're gonna monitor that. We just talked about that. In that combination, I do not think we need a national reporting point from the government, because I do not expect a lower threshold for victims to be organised there. I believe that we have a good approach with the method described just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u41	This is what Mr. Van Nispen of the SP wants to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u42	It is not that I do not think NOC*NSF is going to do a good job with this or that the Centre for Safe Sport would do a very useful job. The only question is whether we should not be prepared for such a nationwide hotline. The minister just said we're not ready for that yet. The question is, why aren't we ready for that? The idea isn't new either. The idea has many advantages. Now you report it to the police, or you report it to the sport itself. That's kind of the picture that's there right now. That's not nice for all the victims. The police threshold may be too high, and not every victim wants to report it to the sport itself. So the question is also how to prevent a wrong trainer from going to work during the scouting, care or education. The sharing of information is, after all, very complicated. Doesn't the Minister see any advantages in such a central hotline, especially from the point of view that you can cross-sectorally? It is also extended and well-founded not only by Van Vollenhoven, but also by Professor Marjan Olfers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u43	Sure. But I have just said that I do not see any added value in this, not 'not yet', but 'not', because I think that the role and responsibility of the sports associations is so great and important here. I'm taking my hat off for the way they handle it. They organized it well. Of course, we're never off this subject. We will always follow the results. However, I doubt whether a report at a government reporting point will produce better successes than the way in which such a Centre for Safe Sport is operating. You can report it to the police at any time. Of course, there are people who say: I'm never going to report it to my association, because it happened in that association, so I don't feel safe there. Then you could report it to the union. Some people will say: that's too close to me; I don't want that. Then you can also report to a professional party as a Centre Sexual Violence or to Victim Help The Netherlands. There are also those reporting possibilities. Then you are outside the sports sector and then you are with well-equipped organisations, who do that work in a good way and can also pass on or help the victim where possible. In this sense, I do not see the added value of setting up a public-law hotline on the government side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u44	I'm sorry. I don't think so myself. I think that this is to the core question of what we see as the role of the government and what we see as the role of sport. Again, it is not about trusting whether sport takes this seriously or not, but about the role of the government in this. On the contrary, I also see the advantage in the cross-sector aspect. The Minister didn't go into that. The convicted trainer who has been wrongly engaged cannot then be excluded from other clubs. The information cannot be shared properly. But even worse, he could also get to work in a completely different sector. So from that point of view, too, it can have benefits. I therefore call once again on the Minister to use the thinking power of Van Vollenhoven and Olfers, among others, and to look at the precise arguments in their proposal, in order to see what we can do in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u45	It is a nice list: Van Vollenhoven, Olfers, Van Nispen. It's a chic lineup, I must say. You'd almost want to be at home in that, but I'm not for it anyway. I just said this about that trainer who stops at one association. I was just talking about making it easy to apply for a vog. That could be very helpful, in combination with such a registration list. We are talking today about tackling abuse and intimidation in sport. We want to combat intimidation and abuse. We want to make it easy for victims to come forward a bit crazy. I do not think that the willingness to report will be increased by setting up a public authority. I think the proximity to the sport is very important. If it has to be transcendent or outside of sport, then I have argued that organisations such as Victim Support Netherlands or the Centres Sexual Violence can play an important role in this. Mr President, that is the view I have on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u46	You continue your speech, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u47	Some of you mentioned the report the KNWU issued yesterday. That is a sort of a deepening blow, a further investigation into the subject we are discussing this afternoon. Compliments of the fact that that research has been carried out. It is, by the way, broader and concerns more than just sexual harassment and abuse. It is also about bullying and other forms of treatment. That has to be said here. But that doesn't soften the conclusions of that report. Mr Van Nispen asked: if finances are the bottleneck, can you contact us? Well, not with us. But you could ask: if finances are the bottleneck, can a union go to NOC*NSF? I'd like to talk to NOC*NSF about that. I find it too easy to say: if there is a price tag on it, it must come from a government pot. I think that own attention from a union is very important. But if there's a financial bottleneck, this shouldn't sound like an invitation, then I want to know from NOC*NSF whether there are possibilities for support, first of all content and if necessary financial. I've been talking about monitoring and reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr. Van Nispen still has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u49	That's good. That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u50	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u51	This is the Minister of Sports. I understand that, because this debate is about abuse in sport. But I have deliberately allowed myself to go a little wider by pointing out the reports of Deetman and Samson, about abuse in other sectors. Misuse is not something that occurs only in sport. There has been an exploratory working group from the Chamber: the Chicken Commission, in which all parties were represented. It has made two recommendations to the government. I am now addressing this Minister because he is more or less responsible for one of those reports. It is about looking more broadly, to see what progress has been made in adopting the recommendations from all these reports, i.e. from Deetman, Samson and De Vries. I understand that the Minister may not be able to speak on behalf of all those other ministers, but it is an opinion, or indeed an urgent appeal from the whole Chamber to the government, to which we have not yet had any response. That is why I am raising this issue in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u52	I don't really know what to do with that apple. I can well imagine the question. I must tell you quite frankly that I already have my hands full to keep you well informed of what is going on in the sport sector. I feel involved in this. I also feel committed to reporting to you progress and results in terms of policy, good and bad. But I find it complicated to take reports from other ministries for my hood. The question has been asked to me, but I do not know if it will be directed at the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u53	I think that question can be put to any minister. If we file motions, we'll also make a request to "the government." I'll do that later. I am, of course, prepared to hold such a motion if the Minister says he has to discuss it. But I do think that if an exploratory working party from the Chamber makes two very serious recommendations to the government, we should all agree that we are going to do so. Nothing to the detriment of this minister, who is responsible for sport, but a motion is ultimately a request to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u55	As a result, I have another supplementary question. I have heard Mr Van Nispen's speech. I believe this is an investigation of the Chamber that was published on 18 April 2018. I can therefore imagine that there may be no reaction from the government. My question, however, is another one. What the Minister does write in the letter to the Chamber, so to us as a permanent committee for Health, Welfare and Sport, is that he wants to cooperate more intensively with other departments. So the question is: who is actually in the lead of those departments when it comes to combating sexual harassment in the broad sense? And is there such a thing as a joint agenda? Because, of course, there are similarities between the things you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mr. Chairman. There is no clear answer to that. The letter we wrote in response to what was exchanged in this Chamber about #MeToo was a common product. I thought it was the Minister for Social Affairs who took the lead at the time. A completely different example. For example, when I discuss the extension of the Vog's, there is a question of capacity. Then I'll be the interested party and then I'll go in consultation with the Minister of JenV. And then I'll tell you what I'm getting out of it. That seems to me to be the most practical way forward. We will perhaps involve the Ministry of Education in the Sports Agreement. I'm looking for involvement. It's an example. It's not like it all worked out. It's not like it wasn't fixed, either, but I'm working on it. Then I'm the interested party. So I'll take the initiative to consult with the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u57	Understandable. Each has its own responsibility and a minister has, of course, been given it with the tasks he has been given. If we look at all the issues surrounding sexual harassment, of course we can see that there are long lines in it: the long line of awareness is important, the fact that you are dealing with prevention, that you want to increase the willingness to report at some point, that there are certain similarities in the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u58	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u59	When it comes to the parallels between the different ministers, how is it then ensured that you draw a common line in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u60	Well, there's not an easy answer to that, because I'll soon be doing one of the other departments or the people we're talking about and who are victims. So I'm not gonna give you an easy answer. Maybe we should just let it happen for a little while. I am not inciting you, but if Mr Van Nispen's motion has been adopted, it is a coat rack for me, for example, for a moment in the circle of the cabinet who can react more coherently to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u62	I'm not done. I'm only halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u63	No, this is the part I thank you for. And now you can continue answering the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u64	How to deal with impunity when an abuser terminates membership of the association? The most important thing here is to report it. I have just talked about measures that can be taken in disciplinary matters. NOC*NSF is now looking at the possibility where the termination of membership is no longer a restriction on prosecution under disciplinary law. So that's an effort. NOC*NSF looks at it. I want to follow that. That could be a possibility. What about JenV's capacity for addressing the issue we are discussing this afternoon? That's what Mr Van Nispen asked. I understand, after consulting JenV, that the police and the D.A. now have sufficient capacity. We can also see this in the lead time of things that we are discussing this afternoon, which has now been shortened. Perhaps not enough and not all cases yet, but the average lead time in the order of one and a half years has now gone to six months. So the issue of capacity has received its attention. Mr President, so much for Mr Van Nispen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u65	Not quite, because Mr. Van Nispen wants to know something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u66	Well, Mr. President, I thought the Minister was pretty careful, so in that respect, I would like to compliment him and the officials. Well, that's not what we're gonna see. But still about the capacity. I will not discuss with this Minister whether the capacity in the police and the judiciary is sufficient, because that is not her. One of De Vries' recommendations to the Minister of Justice and Security is to investigate: how can it be that so few perpetrators are ultimately convicted? Now the Minister's answer is that capacity is now in order, but that is not the same as following De Vries' recommendations on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u67	I thought the question was whether the capacity was in order. That's how I understood the question. From the shortened lead time, I had concluded that the capacity is in any case better in order. That's how carefully I formulated it. If there is a need for a more substantive answer, I must turn to the Minister for Legal Protection, which I would like to do, and I will ask him for an answer which I will then put in an envelope and send to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you for this commitment. This is particularly important because several colleagues have called for attention to be paid to the explanation of behaviour. Of course, it can only be refused if a case has been sufficiently arrested by police and prosecutors. That is why I think that is very important. So thank you for the promised letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u69	Bon. I come to the questions asked by Mrs Bruins Slot. For example, it asked about the progress of the extension measure free of charge and whether disability sport is included. The Minister of VWS at first I thought it was me but it is my colleague De Jonge.. will inform the House before the summer about the extension of that free vog because it is not only a sports matter but a broader something. The free explanation of behavior, including enlargement, applies to all volunteers working with people in a dependency situation, including those engaged in disability sport. Mrs Bruins Slot further asked whether the Minister agreed that the vogs and integrity policies for associations should be accessible, that they should be easy to obtain and that the subject should be given simple attention. I have previously argued that, not only through this free vog, but also budget where necessary, I want to contribute to the support of associations when it comes to the integrity plans or the organisation of a policy café to keep that theme active. Then the theme of continuous screening. We haven't talked about that yet, so we should do that now. Continuous screening is an instrument used in the world of childcare. What does child care have that we do not have in the sports sector? On the one hand, that is a legal supervisor and, on the other hand, a well-connected staff file, where these are volunteers with us. The point is, we don't have that kind of file. So, apart from the need you see for continuous screening, organizing is too difficult and too complicated. Where we have nearly 2 million volunteers in sport, you should also ask yourself whether you should organize it for the whole group, but that's a next chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u70	The Minister is, of course, right to say that childcare is a professionalised sector where people are mainly employed and therefore has a different structure from sport. On the other hand, it was in my view Mrs Westerveld who said that we do see parts of sport in which one in three, such as in disability sport, is sexual harassment/sexual abuse. The dilemma underneath is that, with regard to people who have got a vog but who later go over the line, it becomes clear somewhere: someone has committed and has been convicted of a certain legal offense. So, from the point of view of continuous screening, can you not philosophize a little further, in the sense that there are parts of the sport where you can organise something like this because it better meets the conditions that are necessary for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u71	I think philosophizing is a good idea. Frankly, I don't see anything in continuous screening for the whole sector, but with Mrs Bruins Slot, I can think of categories of volunteers with whom you might suspect a higher risk. Then it gets a little complicated, because then you could say: does the volunteer still want to be the volunteer in the organization? That's one side of the story. What I consider important and really want to replace continuous screening is the space for the free vog, so it is not a one-time thing that was requested and is still valid eight years ago. It's about saying to some people, if that's a reason, with all the caution that goes with it: that free vog isn't a one-time thing for that driver or for that volunteer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u72	It is therefore also a good thing that we have been given more money in the coalition agreement for this free statement of behaviour. My fear is that we are not with that. Of course, it's not just about the volunteer. There are also a lot of people in permanent employment in sport nowadays, who are also in a certain dependency situation to the people they train or coach. The Minister could also be thinking about these groups. I can see that it is a difficult subject, but I can imagine that it is important on a number of points to consider further and see if there is any ground for it. I taste a certain willingness on the part of the Minister, but he is right to ask the question: can we do that easily? My request to the Minister is to examine with NOC*NSF whether there is a need to do so in certain areas. Is it important? Report back to the Court within a specified period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u73	For one category, which Mrs Bruins Slot just mentioned, namely those who are not volunteers in a sports association but work there, I said at the beginning of my reply that the new disciplinary rules have made clear statements on the obligation to notify board members and the reporting responsibilities for volunteers. For people working at a sports club, NOC*NSF still needs to think about how to anchor the focus on this theme. It is also a question of simply taking labour law measures when someone with his fingers is sitting on a pupil that he should not be sitting on. Now I'm gonna say it homely. NOC*NSF is still considering this issue. I've said that before. It seems fine to discuss this further with NOC*NSF. As far as the suggestion of continuous screening is concerned, I am not in favour of it, but on the basis of your question and of others here today, I would like to ask whether NOC*NSF sees anything in it and why or not. Then I'll come here and tell you what they think. That willingness is there, because it comes from the same angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u74	I think Mrs Bruins Slot would like to ask again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u75	The right to discipline is of course beautiful if you find out within the profession that a coach is exercising, but it may also be very good that people within the sport who work with him have no knowledge of it at all. The Minister knows from his responsibility for curative care, which the President is also very familiar with, that there were psychiatrists who had already been convicted of sexual abuse, but still worked with children, although they were subject to disciplinary law. So disciplinary law doesn't always cover everything. That was just a comment. My question to the Minister is as follows. It is good that despite his reservations, hopefully open, he still wants to look further with NOC*NSF how it works. For example, would he like to inform us more about this in relation to the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u76	That's what I'm gonna do. Assuming that NOC*NSF thinks this is an appropriate point, I think that should work. If you don't, I'll let you know. You can rest assured that I will make it open in their direction. Let's just get back to the point about the new disciplinary regulations. It is not the only instrument available to a sports association. You have the disciplinary justice, but of course you always have the right of association under which you can disbarred people. And I hurry to say that there is still criminal law as well. So there are several tracks that can be walked for dealing with people who cross the line. Mr. Chairman. About the Centre for Safe Sport, Mrs Bruins Slot has asked a few questions. I think I have answered them in response to Mr Van Nispen's questions. I've been talking about the public campaign. Then I come to the questions put by Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u77	First, Mrs Bruins Slot would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u78	The Minister has indeed taken up a public campaign, but that is what I consider to be reflected in the response to a sports café. My question really is whether, just as NOC*NSF points out, there is an opportunity to do a mass media campaign anyway. I ask this because the Minister is right to say that it is first and foremost about awareness and that there is still a step for many people to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u79	As far as I am concerned, it is about fun in sports and safe sports, and that is why I am afraid to say that this is the last time we will talk about this issue. We will have to pay real attention to this in the coming period. Maybe I wasn't clear, but what I was trying to say is that I'm in the middle of concluding a sports agreement. That's what I do with the municipalities and the unions. If we're coming to a campaign, I'd like that to be something common. I'm not sure I can get my hands on that when the sports agreement is concluded. That might be possible, but it could also be done in the drafting of the sports agreement. What's the difference? One is that I want to have and sign the text of the sports agreement somewhere before the end of June, and the other is that this effect will come before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u80	That is an adequate answer as well as the fact that Mrs Bruins Slot does not have to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u81	I am pleased that you have reached that second conclusion, Mr President. I wouldn't dare, but I'm happy about it. I come to the questions put by Mrs Dijksma. She says that it is normal to apply for a dog and that assistance should be provided where necessary to apply for a dog. That's what I've been working on. In the meantime, almost 100,000 forgs have been requested. The number is growing rapidly, but still not everyone has one. Then you come to the question: does everyone need it and is it an adequate measure? I think we are moving in the right direction and we are getting that active attitude of associations. Then there's the question of how we're gonna make sure that the convicts don't go back to work at another union. I've dealt with that before. There's a black list, but we don't need an exaggerated picture of it. It's not a list of hundreds of people on it. There's only a few people on it, but I think it's a good stick behind the door. Furthermore, the free vog "I argued the net in the direction of Mrs Bruins Slot" can also help. Then something about supporting volunteers in creating a safe environment. You have to judge whether you think that is good enough, but in the sports agreement, this safe sports environment will be an important issue. We cannot, and we do not want to, in the Netherlands without these sports associations. We can't and we don't want to go without all these volunteers. That pleasure in sports is the motive. Fun in sports! And then it can't be that people don't feel happy or that they don't feel safe at the sports club. That will require attention in the sports agreement. This is also something of a cultural aspect, an aspect of cultural change. It's not easy with that, but it needs attention. This concerns good governance in sport, but also attention to sexual abuse. If you can't enter that, sports cafés can play a role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u82	I largely agree with what the Minister is arguing, but I had tried, perhaps it was not such a meritorious attempt to materialize my commitment a little more. I mean that you can also offer volunteers a course to become a trusted person, for example. I am therefore concerned not only with the fact that the sports agreement talks about changing culture, which is rightly so, but also with the fact that there are a number of instruments in the agreement, with or without the support of the Ministry, with which you can help volunteers literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u83	I think that's a good idea. I thought that was foreseen by now. If not, I will make a point of the sports agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u85	It's my pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u86	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u87	Then we talked about the central hotline. I have now responded with my previous answers. Then I come to the questions raised by Mrs Westerveld, first of all with regard to the investigation of legislation and regulations. It refers to the recommendation made by De Vries, the only recommendation in my direction: research into whether a legal framework can support the promotion of a safer sports environment. "Research" might be a bit of a big word; it's not a book with a chaff either. It is the conversations I have had with NOC*NSF over the past period in the run-up to embracing the conclusions of De Vries, the adoption of the new disciplinary regulations and the content of those disciplinary regulations. I think we have a good approach to this. It is aimed at tackling abuse and intimidation and, where possible, at preventing them. In this combination, I believe that the legal framework has no role to play now. It could even undermine what NOC*NSF has prepared and embraced. This is the honest answer: I don't have a book. Then there is cooperation with municipalities, for which there would be no specific policy. Indeed, you cannot find that in the policy letter I sent you, but as I said in previous answers to the questions asked, you will be given proof of the importance of this cooperation in the sports agreement. As far as inter-departmental cooperation is concerned, I have already given a few examples showing where this cooperation is progressing. One example is the extension of the free vog, on which I am going to inform you. For that, I need another department. So that's what I'm doing together. This is something other than what the De Vries Committee's recommendation says, because it is much broader and addressed to a whole set of ministers, if I may put it this way: work much more closely together in developing policies to combat sexual harassment and abuse; identify who is in charge and draw up an agenda. I think that we are going further on the basis of Mr Van Nispen's motion. In any case, let me say that I myself benefit most from the cooperation by department, which is specific and subject-oriented. Mr. Chairman. We have discussed the motion on the vog. Before the summer, your Chamber will be further informed on this point. As far as a compulsory vog is concerned, I am not in favour of that, as I have indicated. The group is too big for that. I also think that this does not recognise the central role that a sports association itself plays in this. But I do think that if a sports association says "for at least that group of volunteers we want to apply for a vog," the ease must be there to apply for it. This applies financially to the free vote, but also to the expansion of the group where necessary. Where there is help and guidance, they should be provided. Then the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u88	One moment. Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u89	I have an enlightening question. I understand what the Minister is saying. We do indeed have nearly 2 million volunteers in the sport. But in my input I specifically mentioned sports drivers, trainers and coaches. The committee's report showed that only about half of the trainers and coaches are in possession of a vog. I think that group is fairly clear to define.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u90	Sure. But my other argument was that I think it is important that sports associations themselves make the decision which volunteer should be given the vog. This may also apply here: who first and who later? However, we can see that the focus on having an explanation of behaviour available has increased in recent years among associations. I don't have a picture of whether that's for the pupil trainer or the treasurer, but that attention is there and it comes from the sports clubs. I think that's the right move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u91	Perhaps the Minister is already planning to do so, but would he like to comment more specifically on what has been done in recent years to motivate directors, trainers and coaches from the sports clubs to apply for such a vog?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u92	I have announced a letter to you before the summer in which I will tell you what this extension of the free statement looks like. I would like to note that I think it is up to the associations to take the lead in determining whether they want to offer the pupil trainer or the treasurer such a free vog first. But that letter will not say that I think it is a good idea that there should be a mandatory vog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u93	You just promised a letter before the summer. You probably meant before the AO which will be held on 28 June. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u94	I don't know, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of an earlier motion, I have promised to inform the Chamber before the summer of the enlargement of the group with a free vog. That information I just called homely "the letter." I would like to repeat what I have just said, namely that I am not in favour of a compulsory vog because I believe that this is a matter for the sports associations. Then the competence profiles for coaches. Is it not a good use, or is it not a good idea to include the theme of sexual harassment and abuse in "the making of" those competence profiles for coaches? I hope I understood the question so well. I think it's a good idea. I imagine that this theme is already being addressed in one way or another in the competence profiles for coaches. That's what I'm going to ask NOC*NSF. If not, I want them to... Mrs Westerveld shakes no, so that is certainly not the case in all competence profiles. I'll make that a point with NOC*NSF, because I think this is a logical idea. Then it's the obligation of trust contacts. That's just another thing than the mandatory vog. I am also not in favour of requiring trusted contacts with any sports association, because I think it is part of a good sports climate that the association itself decides to set up a trusted contact person and also decides who can do it best, partly on the basis of the example of my own judo association Kubi Nage, long ago. Then there is another question from Mrs Westerveld. The De Vries Committee indicates that the extent of cross-border behaviour in children with disabilities, lhbtq athletes and athletes with a migration background is higher than in other sportsmen. If you are going to take additional measures to protect this group, Mrs Westerveld would like to know. I've been thinking about this for a long time. But I think that the measures taken in the new disciplinary regulations last Monday should be sufficient for each group. These apply not only to the directors, to the volunteers and to the people who work at the association, but should actually apply to everyone. So in addition to taking additional measures... Honestly, I didn't come up with a good idea. I also hope that it is not necessary, because I believe that the measures taken by the disciplinary regulations are the right measures. I say this in the direction of Mrs Westerveld, but I thought Mrs Bruins Slot had also asked a question on this point. We have already discussed the evaluation and monitoring of the success of this new policy. Why isn't there a single system or a single registration list for disciplinary and criminal convictions? If I'm correct, Mrs Westerveld asked that question. Is that correct, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u95	At least I don't see her reacting like she wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u96	No, but neither is the opposite. I don't see her going over the table jubilantly. We now have an overview of disciplinary convictions and a list of convicted criminals. Why isn't that one system? The answer is that this double registration has added value. Someone may have been convicted of disciplinary action, but not criminal action. Because of the difference between the criminal and disciplinary systems, bringing both systems together is not very functional. Disciplinary convictions are registered through the Register fornicators in sport. Criminal convictions are registered in the Judicial Documentation System. On the basis of the latter system, screening is carried out for the vog. I have another question about the incidents at pools and perhaps also events, and the role of the Minister in that context. In the measures we are discussing this afternoon we always mention NOC*NSF, but the recommendations of the De Vries Committee are currently also discussed by NOC*NSF with non-member associations, such as the National Platform Swimming Pools and the fitness industry. I think it is a good idea that these rules and agreements, which were adopted in the Assembly of Members, were not only made for the affiliated unions, but that NOC*NSF, which also discusses with neighbouring but not affiliated unions, such as the pool platform and the fitness industry. The latter also has a dome organization. I imagine that, for example, in the letter I am sending in the autumn, I should like to inform you of the progress and successes that have been made in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u97	Very nice that the fitness centers and the swimming pools are connected. But what about, for example, the boat campers, the outdoor athletes and the zzp'ers who work in the sport? Can they report to that point as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u98	I don't know. I mentioned these two because I know they're on the list at NOC*NSF. But if there are others, we can provide it. That sounds good to me. One is easier to approach than the other. The zzp'ers may be less easy to approach via a dome, but the bootcampers can be reached again via an association. I have received the impression from NOC*NSF that they are serious about the policy and that they also want to promote this to non-member parties. If we do not make the list infinitely large and therefore do not fill up the sign for NOC*NSF, I think they keep that benevolent attitude. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions put by Mr Heerema of the VVD Group. Is the motion on child care adopted yesterday also valid in sport? The answer to this is that the PVV motion sees the extension of the look-back period for persons convicted of child abuse. This applies to all sectors, including sport. At the moment, as I am informed, the Justis Service already has the possibility, through a special ground of refusal, to refuse the right for persons convicted of crimes against children longer than the regular four years. The Minister for Legal Protection informs me that he will send a letter in response to this motion before the summer. Then consider my reaction as a first reaction. Can the reporting obligation of the sports sector be extended in line with the motion for an extension of the reporting obligation in the Code of Criminal Procedure? In reply, the disciplinary reporting obligation of the sports sector for board members is already more extensive than the criminal reporting obligation that applies to every Dutch person who has knowledge of a criminal offence committed. The reporting obligation of the sports sector includes various forms of sexual harassment and abuse, while the reporting obligation is only about rape. The Groothuizen c.s. motion calls for an investigation into the possibility of extending the criminal reporting obligation from rape to other serious sexual offences. This just seems like a good idea to me. With regard to the state of play on this subject, I would refer you to my colleague from JenV, who has an investigation into whether a third party reporting obligation in the event of sexual abuse of children is possible and desirable. If research shows that this is being extended, then this applies to all Dutch and therefore also to the sports sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u99	We just talked about the vog. The Minister explained that there is a disciplinary system and a criminal justice system and that it is related to a criminal registration system. We are always talking about disciplinary law and the Minister is also quoting it here. Is there any possibility that we could have the vog checked against the disciplinary registration system? Is that an option? Is that possible? It would have been a second-term question, but I'm good at linking it to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u100	I'll have to check it out. I don't have an answer for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u101	Maybe we can get that back in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u102	Well, I'm judging...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u103	I can, but I'm assuming we'll find out later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u104	You'll get an answer. You'll get that in writing. Maybe that saves a second term, Mr. Chairman. Next question. How are you going to ensure that convicted persons for child abuse can never work in sport again? In response, the government agreement states that the vog will be free of charge for all volunteers working in a dependency relationship. Before the summer, your room will receive a letter about this. Then I shall go into that in more detail. Well, then, you'll see if that's enough. Then there are the facilitating steps. What is the Minister going to do to take all the facilitating steps to ensure that the means of declaration and follow-up go as well as possible? The sports sector has been working intensively with the police and the public prosecutor for some time to design and improve the approach to sexual abuse in sport, including the possibility of reporting and its follow-up. For this purpose, cooperation agreements were established on 28 June last year in a cooperation protocol between NOC*NSF, police and OM. I will see to it that this cooperation is continued. Where there are hiccups, I will talk to my colleague from JenV about that. Then there is the question of helping sports club drivers. Does the Minister see room in the budget, for example on the subject of safe sports climate? Safe sports climate is the note that expires after seven or eight years of loyal service, 2011-2018, end of this year. But we will anchor the themes, the subjects and also the budget through the sports agreement and the development of the sports agreement, because these themes are not gone and the budget is not gone either. That remains structurally available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u105	Mr Heerema of the VVD has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u106	It is good that the budget remains available, including for the abuses that take place in sport. My question was also to what extent it is possible to prioritise within that budget of Towards a safe sports climate. If that budget now falls into smaller sub-budgets and remains the same, then there will be no more money available for abuse in sport. I can imagine that the issues we have been working on, such as arbitration, could be reduced in favour of abuse in sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u107	I don't know exactly. Some topics may not even cost so much money, for example the schooling and training of drivers. This also fits in with the chapter on governance in sport. You can draw on that budget as well. As far as disciplinary justice is concerned, I have previously argued in the direction of Mr Van Nispen that, where it is necessary to assist the victim, the aid is not very costly in terms of money so far. It's not a high budget. So it may not be a question of money everywhere. The prioritisation of this issue falls, of course, in your budgetary law, but you can be assured that I want to continue to give structural attention to the subject. So I want to make this a visible theme in the 2019 budget too, and you will also see it in the sports agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u108	Mr. Lordema, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u109	Thank you, Mr President. If a number of subjects are less expensive to use, then that is very good, but we are talking about perhaps 30,000 associations where sports drivers have to make a professionalisation beating. That's gonna cost money. Therefore, my question is whether, instead of keeping the budgets in order, there are opportunities to increase those budgets. That is, of course, at the expense of something else. I am looking forward to the budget and I am looking at how to deal with it as an auditor of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u110	That seems to me to be a good conclusion of the first term. The best conclusion is in the words that Mr Heerema said in the direction of the athletes who moved in the round table. I would like to add my thanks and I hope that I have answered almost all the questions from the first term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u111	I see that's the case. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Mrs. Diertens, would you like a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I have a lot of sports, I know the sport from the inside and I don't think the sport can do this alone. The stories of the victims have really touched me. The traumas they have, they have their lives. The UK study gives the global conclusion that noc's in different countries can't handle this. That is why I attach great importance to a common approach, so that aid can be reached quickly and well in the vicinity of victims. I don't want to end up negative. Let us make a positive difference. I therefore hope that the Minister will accept the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sexual harassment and abuse are a social problem which is not reserved for sport;]] [[noting that the Centre for Sexual Violence is a professional tool for victims of sexual violence;]] [[Whereas it has great added value in exploiting existing knowledge about sexual violence;]] [[calls on the Minister to promote the exchange of knowledge between the Centre for Sexual Violence and the Centre for Safe Sports and to forward notifications to the Centre for Sexual Violence where possible and necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Diertens, Bruins Slot and Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u113	Thank you. I think we have had a good debate on a major problem: abuse in sport. We must do everything possible to prevent this and, if it happens, to identify it and do something about it, and in particular to take care of the victims. I am satisfied with many answers, but nevertheless I am obliged to table three motions. The first is about the central hotline. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas victims of sexual abuse should be able to report this in a safe and accessible manner;]] [[Considers that an independent central hotline is best suited to this, partly because a central public-law hotline is able to cross the sector;]] [[calls on the Government to work with experts to set up and establish an independent central hotline for victims of sexual abuse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u114	There are two further motions which actually translate the appeal of the exploratory working party from the Chamber to the government into concrete requests to the government. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the exploratory Working Group on External Research has indicated that there is still no clear picture of the extent and development of cases of abuse and abuse;]] [[calls on the Government, following the recommendations of the exploratory Working Group on Sexual Abuse and Abuse, to conduct quantitative and periodic scientific studies on sexual abuse and abuse, to continue monitoring developments and to report to the Court on them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u115	The second recommendation of this working group is as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the exploratory Working Group on External Research has indicated that the actual impact of measures taken from previous reports on sexual abuse and abuse can sometimes be improved in practice;]] [[calls on the Government, following the recommendations of the exploratory Working Group on External Research, to identify sexual abuse and abuse, whether or not it has been done with recommendations from the various Committees of Inquiry, and to report to the Chamber on the effects achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u117	Then Mrs. Bruins Slot from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answers. It is also good that he mentioned that it is very good that the cycling association has done research itself. That's how they take responsibility. I have to say that the results are not only about sexual harassment but also about other things that really shocked me. Laying out contracts where you ask women not to get pregnant as long as they're on that bike: it's really ridiculous. It's not from this century. Sexual harassment in the broad sense is unacceptable. The CDA thinks it should stop. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister, but also the sports sector, are doing something about this. In three cases, I still have questions for the Minister. In the first term, I had asked the Minister what he saw as an opportunity to give the parents the tools to recognize sexual harassment, abuses in their children, because three quarters of them are under 16 years of age. The second point concerns the exchange of information between the Centre for Safe Sports, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. From the doping we know that this is very difficult. How can we ensure that the exchange of information is possible for this issue too? Furthermore, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police do not yet see clearly in their systems when someone is also active as a supervisor, trainer or coach. I had already asked that question in the first term, but I did not want to cause any further interruptions and do so just as neatly in the second term. So my question is: how can we ensure that this is visible in the future? Mr President, I will conclude. Sexual harassment doesn't belong in sports. It doesn't belong in society. It has to stop. It's a shared mission of all of us to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u119	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. Mrs Dijksma waives a second term. Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I have two motions. The first one is about the confidant. That's a motion we filed earlier. Then the Minister said 'let's wait for this debate first', or rather 'let's wait for the investigation report'. GroenLinks considers it important that associations use a trusted person much more often. There's still far too little of that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sexual behaviour in sports associations is still a major problem;]] [[Whereas athletes need a point of contact within their own sports association, where they can talk about, among other things, sexually transversal behaviour;]] [[noting that only half of the sports associations have a trusted person;]] [[Whereas a trusted person can assist in reporting and combating sexually transversal behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to jointly or not require sports associations to appoint a trusted person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u121	Then a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one in three disabled athletes and one in four lhbtq athletes have experienced sexual cross-border behavior;]] [[Whereas these groups are at greater risk than other athletes;]] [[noting that no policy has been drawn up by NOC*NSF and by the Ministry for Sports and Sports athletes with disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a separate approach with sports organisations to prevent sexual cross-border behaviour for disabled athletes and lhbtq athletes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34843-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr. Chairman. We have a long way to go, with hearings and now the plenary debate. To be honest, I have had a good feeling about this debate. It's a difficult subject. We've handled it with dignity. I also really feel like we can take steps. I am very pleased that the Members' Assembly and the sports associations said together at NOC*NSF last Monday: we are going to support improving this issue. At the moment, I continue to point out that the vog runs through the criminal registration system and is not subject to scrutiny by the disciplinary system. At least the Minister has indicated that he is coming back with an answer. So I will not table a motion, because if he agrees to do so, no motion will be required. But I do see room there, because the more I think about it, the more logical I think it is that a vog is also tested against the disciplinary system. I hope that we can take another step in that direction. Maybe we can make it a little safer in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u123	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. Then we have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. Six motions have been tabled. I believe that three questions have also been asked. Can the minister get on with it right away? No, it also makes sense for me to suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u124	I see the minister is back from his meeting. We can therefore continue with the second term on the part of the cabinet. I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u125	Mr. Chairman. Three more questions have been asked, all three by Mrs Bruins Slot. I'd like to answer those questions first. Then I would like to comment on the various motions that have been tabled. Mrs Bruins Slot's first question was an apology, because it was already set in the first term: what possibilities are there to support parents in recognizing sexual abuse and intimidation? Currently, NOC*NSF is developing tools to support parents as well as associations. Those tools will soon become available at that center for safe sports. Through the sports associations it will be published that these tools are available. So that's what we're working on. In the first term, I said that this CVS is still being set up. But I'm sure that's being worked on, because that's what I've been called in. That's one. Two: how's the exchange of information between that safe sports centre, the state's attorney's office and the police? We checked with NOC*NSF. The exchange of information is being discussed. We're told that doesn't give us a hitch. But we also know the example of the doping situation. I'd like to keep an eye on this theme. I must tell you that I will inform you more about this in the letter I am sending you before the legislative consultation, i.e. in the course of the year. But so far there are no bad messages. Then there was the question: where or for whom is visible who is employed by an association as a trainer-coach, as a volunteer or as a board member? I hope I understood Mrs Bruins Slot's question correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u126	Mrs. Bruins Slot will clarify what she meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u127	I think that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u128	I do not think I made the question quite clear either. So it's not the Minister's fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u129	Try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u130	The systems of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police have not so far shown that a convicted person is also active as an athlete, coach or trainer. In what way could that become clearer? This is also something that has played in the care. For that there is now an active communication between the Public Prosecutor and the inspection. Only, we don't have that inspection in sports. What are the possibilities for sport to make that connection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u131	I can't really think of that. Now I think you should look in the register, into the membership file of an association if you want to know who's active there. You can't just link it to police and judicial records. That's what I can think of right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u132	Mrs. Bruins Slot, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u133	It is, of course, the cases in which there is a trial, a judgment, a criminal conviction of someone who is known to be a sportsman, a trainer or a coach. Then how do you ensure that this information also comes to NOC*NSF and the unions? Maybe that is already well arranged at the moment, but I'm still getting signals that it hasn't quite been fully implemented yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u134	I believe that the register I mentioned in the first term can be helpful in this respect. That is never final, but together with such a more frequent request for free vog that could be a good instrument. But if Mrs Bruins Slot has other signals, I would like to hear them from her and then I will see if I can give an even more concrete answer than I can give now. So that's what I'm telling Mrs. Bruins Slot. And I'll inform the room about that. Six motions have been tabled. The first, the motion by Mrs Diertens c.s. in piece No. 18, is about exploiting the knowledge of the Centre Sexual Violence. It invites the Minister to promote the exchange of knowledge between the Centre for Sexual Violence and the Centre for Safe Sports and to redirect notifications to the Centre for Sexual Violence wherever possible and necessary. I have no objection to that motion, so I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. In the first term, however, I have argued that not only the Centre for Sexual Violence can be a party, but that other parties are also possible. But I have no objection to this motion. From the motion in part No. 19 of Nispen's member states the operative part: calls on the government to work with experts to set up and establish an independent central hotline for victims of sexual abuse. I would advise against this motion because I believe that the organisation, as we discussed in the first term, is a good working method for setting up a safe sports centre. You can't call it an independent central hotline, but I think it's good because it's connected to the sport. In addition, I think there are plenty of opportunities for victims to report outside the sport. That's why I don't recommend the motion. From the motion in part No. 20 is the operative part: calls on the Government, following the recommendations of the exploratory Working Group on External Research, to conduct quantitative and periodic scientific studies on sexual abuse and abuse, to continue monitoring developments and to report to the Court on them. Perhaps it is not a surprise, but I would ask the Chamber to hold this motion so that I can take her to the cabinet to have the discussion there. I see Mr Van Nispen coming to the interrupting microphone, so I say immediately that the same goes for his motion in part No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u135	I understand that and am sympathetic to it, but I would actually like to ask the Minister the following. Indeed, the recommendations of the exploratory working group are one month old. That's not so old. On the other hand, the cabinet has already been able to look at it and think about it. Is it not possible to write a letter to the Chamber about this for next Tuesday? It's not that complicated. It is a request to the government for information and a request to monitor whether the recommendations contained in all the important reports we have discussed here in recent years are being followed. So that is not such a shocking request. Maybe that's why there's a letter for Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u136	Is that possible, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u137	No. That will be a letter with very little content. It is now Wednesday afternoon and we have the Whitsuntide days before next Tuesday. Indeed, the request is not that shocking, but the subject matter is intrusive and does not relate to posting a note for next Tuesday, especially if we have to discuss it with colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u138	We shouldn't exaggerate again, indeed. We are talking about important reports, of which we all want to follow up on the recommendations. So I will be waiting for the Minister's letter, but I hope this will not take very long. Until then, I will hold both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u139	At the request of Mr Van Nispen, I propose his motions for resolutions (34843, Nos. 20 and 21). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u140	Then the motion to part No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u141	The operative part is as follows: calls on the Government to jointly or not oblige sports associations to appoint a trusted person. I am not in favour of this obligation. I have argued this in detail in the first term. I believe that the culture of working on a safe sports environment is something that belongs to all of us, including the sports associations. That does not relate to a government obligation to appoint a trusted person. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u142	The motion in part No. 22 is not recommended. Then the motion to part No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u143	The operative part is this: calls on the Government to develop a separate plan with sports organisations to prevent sexual cross-border behaviour for those with disabilities and lhbtq athletes. On this point, too, I gave an answer in the first place. That said, I think that the approach that NOC*NSF agreed with the unions last Monday is good for all athletes, including those with disabilities and lhbtq-sporters. So I don't see anything in a separate plan of action. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u144	I was a little afraid of it as a result of the Minister's previous reaction, but I would like to tell him that it is quite clear that these groups have been involved in intimidation and sexual abuse much more often. The plans, both in the Minister's letter and in NOC*NSF's plans, do not deal with this group separately, while the groups are clearly defined. That is why I wonder why we cannot pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u145	Your point is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u146	I argued in the first term that I believe that the measures agreed last Monday in the NOC*NSF alv are valid for all athletes. There is no exception for a particular category. I expect a lot from this approach. I have indicated that we will undoubtedly be discussing the subject of sexual harassment and abuse more often. But expressing support for the policy adopted last Monday in Papendal does not, in my opinion, relate to a separate approach for specific groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u147	I'm afraid you're not gonna get together, Mrs Westerveld, so I'm not sure it makes any sense to interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u148	I just have a comment on what the Minister says about an exception. It is not an exception; it is about extra attention for these groups. That's what we're asking for in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u149	The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u150	... repeat what he just said. In view of the package of measures offered by NOC*NSF, which is being developed, I believe that a plan of action is not a good instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u151	Clear. Mr. Heerema, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u152	I have a very short question. I have made a comment on vog and disciplinary law. The Minister said he'd come back to that. Does the Minister have any idea when he might be able to come forward with a response? Is that May, June or after the summer break? Then I can put it in my schedule to get back on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u153	Well, if the offer is "after summer"... I'm going to try to give you a written answer before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-8.u154	Thank you, Minister. I would like to thank those present, those who followed the debate and those who took part in this debate. We shall now proceed to the next debate, but we shall suspend for a few moments in order to organise the change of guard.
