ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mrs Kuik's questions, on behalf of the CDA, to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, whom I would also like to welcome. The Minister replaces the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. The question concerns the advice to the Minister to eliminate creative MBO training. I call Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission's macro-efficiency MBO has issued a report on the labour market perspective of creative MBO training. This report shows that there is a proliferation of creative studies that do not offer sufficient employment opportunities and have a much worse labour market perspective than other MBO courses. Despite this, the number of students has increased considerably, for example the training of artists from 400 to 3,000 students. Artists in training naturally dream of big stages, while this is for a few. The number of institutions offering the highlighted training has gone from eight to twenty, while the labour market does not justify this increase. My question to the Minister is: how did this happen? We don't want to train young people for jobs that aren't there, do we? In the FD article, Minister Van Engelshoven says that the institutions are now at their own initiative. But how real is it that institutions themselves are going to abolish their training? Who is responsible for reducing and innovating the number of training courses? What are the institutions going to do now? What role does the Minister see for himself? Within what time does he expect action from the institutions before he himself intervenes? Does the Minister also agree with the CDA that there should be rapid clarity for current and new students and that much clearer information should be given to students on the labour market perspective of the study? Finally. Of course it is important that young people can develop with passion, but training is not a fun hobby. It's about training for a profession. And then there is clearly a duty of care for institutions to watch for too strong growth. For the institution, the labour market perspective should not be a subordinate role. Does the Minister agree with the Committee and the CDA that the number of placements is not a sufficient indicator for the labour market and that the institutions themselves should do more to monitor their alumni on the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am indeed replacing my colleague Van Engelshoven, who is in Milan at the moment. The report referred to by Mrs Kuik was requested by our predecessor, the minister of OCW of the previous cabinet. Indeed, there were signs that the number of students in the creative sector began to run out of pace with the real labour market perspective available for these students. You know that, in 2008, the law, in the WEB, called the "care obligation" also called the word "care obligation" for the institutions when it comes to the labour market perspective. This also means that there is a clear obligation on institutions to offer training only where a qualified school leavers have sufficient prospects to find work within a reasonable period of time at the level of the course followed. That law was tightened up again in 2015. The Commission's use of macro-efficiency is an example of this, because that has been the tightening-up. So you could say that the tightening works. We now have a report which clearly states that something is going on. That report is still incredibly fresh, because it came out yesterday. I can now promise you the following. My colleague, Mr Van Engelshoven, intends to send a comprehensive policy response to this report to the Chamber by 1 June, but the sooner the better, so that all the ins and outs of the report, which, of course, exceeds Question Time, can be dealt with. What should be done anyway? This report is first of all a clear task for the MBO schools, through the MBO Council, to give an initial response to it. As far as we are concerned, this reaction must also come quickly. This applies in particular to the Media Design and Mode/Size Engineering programmes. Turns out there's too much influx. Those student numbers are gonna have to go down. The MBO institutions are instructed to present a quality agenda by 31 October at the latest. We also think that this is a very natural place to respond to this report and to involve it. Then we will see if they have taken the lessons that are contained in this report, the assignment that is coming to them now, namely that something must be done, also. This, of course, also includes, for the moment, the explicit provision of good information. For you are right: this is the moment when the notifications are to take place. Parents and students are now going to see what they can do. It is therefore a good thing that you have notified this to the oral questions. Then it's also known. The point is that this report is not put in a drawer somewhere quickly, with the idea that we are going to give a policy response, including from the institutions. No, this report should also be singing around among the group that is now in the process of making a choice. The second thing we're going to do is ask the Foundation Collaboration Vocational Education Business to look critically at the continuation of the programmes Artist and DTP. This raises the question of whether this type of training really has the right to exist. We will get a response from them as soon as possible. Then there are a few questions left, but I see that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	You have the same speaking time as the Member of Parliament. You've been over that a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	Answering takes a little longer than asking a short question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	... ifyou want to do justice to this subject. But I will leave it at that in my first term, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	Just answer the questions, too. Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you for the Minister's letter. I would like to know what the deadline is for institutions to really take action. Can the Minister answer my question as to how real it is that institutions themselves are going to restrict training?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	That will have to be proved, but this report is, of course, not without obligation. There is an explicit duty of care. The institutions are therefore also obliged to move on the basis of this report. It's an orderly course of action, I think, to ask them first to come forward with a response as soon as possible. At the latest, this will be included in the quality agenda. You had another question about the internships. You said that internships are not a measure or measure of the labour market perspective. You are absolutely right about that. That is indeed not enough. There are more indicators that you will need to include. If you're just gonna base it on that, you're gonna miss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. Mr El Yassini, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	I am very pleased that the CDA has put oral questions on this or else we would have done so ourselves. We heard the Minister give some answers, but I notice something. The Minister says that there will be a policy response before 1 June. The strange thing is that this policy response was given yesterday, because I read in the media that the Minister said: I leave this to schools and when things get out of hand, I intervene. In addition, the Minister says that she will then have the SBB in the field of the qualification dossier examine whether these training courses can be stopped. In my view, it is precisely the Commission's task to give macro-efficiency a good, sound opinion on this matter. Then we don't have to let the SBB do that investigation again. So I would like to ask the Minister the following. The advice indicates that it's getting out of hand. What should happen before the Minister finally says: I take the advice and get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	I have just indicated that there will now be a number of lines of work. First of all, the MBO institutions will be given the opportunity through the MBO Council to also reflect on the report. We do indeed see that there is a matter in which there is a real need to act. We assume that we will also have a reaction in this way. In addition, through the Collaboration Organisation Vocational Education Business Life, we will look a little more broadly at those courses that we think are still sustainable in the long term. At the moment when we find that there is not enough movement from the educational field itself, the Minister responsible will eventually have the opportunity to limit or perhaps even stop training through financial instruments. The Committee also recommends this, at the latest as of course year 2019-2020. So there are several possibilities, which we all look at in the right order, because of course we should also do this in an orderly way towards the educational field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u15	Over the past ten years, there have been unprecedented cuts in our art and culture: museums, theatres, operas, you name it. In other words, we have cut down on employment in the creative sector. Then GroenLinks actually thinks it is remarkable and strange, and perhaps a little hypocritical, to talk about the right of existence of these courses. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that it is very worrying and hypocritical to cut employment first and then say to young people, students who want to pursue their own creative interests in art and culture, that their studies no longer have the right to exist? That's crooked, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u16	When I look at the investments made by this cabinet in the cultural sector, I do not believe that there are any cuts. In fact, there are even investments in the coalition agreement. We have laid down in the legislation that there is a "care obligation on the labour market" perspective. Then you must also take seriously the content of such sharp reports, such as the report that the Commission produced on macro-efficiency yesterday. We need to look at education to ensure that students who follow their hearts do not end up in a place where they come to the conclusion years later: if we had known this, we might have made another choice. We also have to do this carefully with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you.
