ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the fight against liquidation violence. I welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over and over again, we are shocked by liquidations where criminals attack each other in the middle of the street, sometimes even in front of women and children. When I took this debate in January, a 17-year-old boy had just been killed in an Amsterdam community center. The actual target was another. When kids are taken under fire in community centers, a low point is reached. This week there was another low point: the murder of an innocent brother of a recently presented star witness, presumably to silence them. A murder to intimidate a key witness! That is unheard of in the Netherlands. Whether the victim had indicated he didn't want protection, I'll leave it in the middle. Of course it is important to direct oneself, but does this mean that it is never possible to protect a person? Often the police can make an assessment better than the police themselves. Is this balance of interests also based on the level of intimidation? To what extent, for example, does one consider that bystanders could be put at risk if someone does not accept their security? How long do people get protection? Is the system still capable of monitoring and securing against such threats of violence? The Deputy Head of Unit of the Amsterdam Police states that in the fight against liquidation violence, everything is made more difficult by the ease with which criminals can obtain weapons. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the number of liquidations and liquidation attempts involving the use of automatic weapons. The crime scene would seem simply a war zone. In 2012 a double liquidation in the Staatslijenbuurt opened fire on motorcycle agents arriving on the scene. They just didn't get hit because they were hiding under their engines. It seems to be an action film, but it is the reality in the Netherlands. When I read what the 2017 National Threat Picture says about organised crime about the illicit trafficking of firearms, I get very worried about that. There is very little view of people who take care of the brokering. Weapons can easily be constructed from different parts. The internal market in the European Union does not control car smuggling. For a few years now, more priority has been given to picking up the illegal arms trade. The police and the state's attorney's office are busy with that. The question is whether this prioritisation has already led to success. That's what I like to hear. The fact that we decided yesterday on our initiative to increase the penalty for possession of prohibited weapons is also an important step. But what about the new Arms and Ammunitions Act? It would be amended to take account of the European arms directive. Is the Minister prepared, as our group chairman has advocated, to give the police wider powers when it comes to controlling prohibited weapons? Mr President, something else. Some time ago, we held debates in succession about the port of Rotterdam, which is as leaky as a basket when it comes to the import of narcotic drugs. A Haven table would be set up. We were promised that the cuts in customs were over. I want to be updated on that. Because as long as the crane is open, there will be deaths. After the sharp analyses of journalists such as Van Wely, Vugths, Van den Heuvel and Laumans, we are now clear. We know by now that there is an enormous amount of cocaine because of the enormous supply of cocaine. If there's a lot, the price is low. Then the competition is big and they kill each other. That's what you're seeing right now in our capital. Finally, the necessary investments in detectives. It is absolutely important to be able to be retraced in order to eventually find out about the real serious criminals in organized crime. Just scraping off the top layer isn't enough. We hear and see that the police have been successful. You see that again in this case. But the upcoming investments are really needed. The urgency is so high that I ask the Minister if he can say anything about it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you. Exactly within the speaking time! I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. In the drug war, the liquidation war or the so-called mocrowar, the counter stands at 30 murders and nine misdemeanors, including those on a 17-year-old boy. In 2016, one of the sponsors of the murders was already in the picture in the criminal case 26Koper. In that year the police called the alarm clock about the availability of heavy weapons. In January of this year, the Deputy Chief of Unit of the Amsterdam Police reported that the fight against the liquidation violence is hampered by a number of aspects. The threshold for violence is ever lower. Weapons are easy to obtain. There is a lack of cooperation from the community within which the suspects or witnesses are found because of fear or the existence of criminal ties. He also mentioned the open borders. In February, Mr Aalbersberg said: "We are 60% to 70% engaged in liquidations and, for the rest, radicalisation and terrorist investigations." Mr. Chairman. This has to end. Citizens must be able to cross the street without fear and there must be time to record declarations and investigate "normal" cases. What's to be done? There must be much more money for the police, because the possibility of carrying out investigations on weapons possession and extensive investigations must not be frustrated by lack of capacity. The influx of weapons from abroad must be stopped. Enter border controls. As an example, weapons that have been decommissioned in Slovakia are legal. Often only the pin inserted in it needs to be removed to have a life-threatening weapon again. It is also a matter of naming the facts. There are countless reports on the background of these criminals, but that Moroccans are overrepresented remained unnamed. There must be more focus on the top of the drug trade, because this is inextricably linked to organised crime. Another measure: introduce minimum penalties. I always mention this, because raising the penalty ceiling is a symbolic measure if there is no mandatory lower limit. As a result of the liquidation of a key witness' brother, I ask the Minister what he will do about this. Without a key witness, it is now almost impossible to catch the clients and stop the serious crimes. Here too, the brutality, besides the violence of course, was appalling. The unsub didn't even bother to disguise himself. This underlines the importance of using camera images. I would also like a response from the Minister to this quote by criminologist Mr Ferwerda: "When these guys were 16 or 17 years old, they were already serving in the neighborhood. We underestimated that territorial drift. They still have the same attitude, only the weapons have become heavier. It's not their job, it's more something that's on their bucket list." We always heard that the approach of the so-called Top 600 was so successful. Now it's acknowledged that it's been underestimated. Is the Minister going to learn from this? Mr President, I shall conclude. More capacity for the police is an absolute top priority. And with an increase in the odds of getting caught, there's also a heavy penalty. Today's street terrorist is tomorrow's killer. Organised crime is heavy and persistent and therefore deserves nothing less than 'I like to quote the Minister himself 'a tough approach'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. Organised crime literally hardens at a murderous pace. Young criminals use extreme violence, killing innocent people. Since 2014 it is really good in the underworld. Where previously on average six to eight liquidations per year were carried out in the criminal circuit, bullets have been raining since 2014 and we are now dealing with an average of 20 liquidations per year. Liquidation violence within criminal circles is already serious enough, but more and more so, so-called misdemeanours are being committed, a terrible euphemism for the murder of someone other than the target. The reason for today's debate was such a mistake. Mrs Van Toorenburg said so. On 26 January this year, 17-year-old intern Mohammed Bouchikhi was shot dead in a neighbourhood center in the Kleine Witenburgerstraat in Amsterdam. The police are acting hard against this liquidation violence. In fact, everything points to the fact that the police have the headlines of the mafia-like network behind the liquidation wave in Amsterdam, thanks to very good, intensive, years of detective work in sight and trying to get behind bars. But that too has its downside. Last Thursday, for example, the key witness' brother was murdered in broad daylight in this case. Unfortunately, there is no simple magic formula that puts an end to all this violence. But we have to do what we can to keep the inhabitants of the cities where this is happening as safe as possible. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is important to bet on two tracks. Firstly, the illegal possession of weapons must be dealt with in a structured manner. Yesterday, the Chamber adopted a proposal from my colleague Mr Van Toorenburg and myself to double the penalty for Category II weapons provided for in the Arms and Ammunitions Act. It's bizarre that people can walk the streets with kalashnikovs and hand grenades. It is very good that the cabinet is saying that it is going to do so. In addition, the cabinet is proposing a bill to increase the penalties for perpetrators committing serious offences such as violence and liquidation in an organised context. However, increasing the penalty is only one thing. At least as important is a coordinated approach to the detection and withdrawal of weapons. Too often this appears to be by-catch in the context of other studies. Last Friday night I was present at a large-scale traffic check on alcohol and drugs at the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam. Two weapons were also found and seized. Of course, that's nice, but much more important is that we deal with things in a structured way. I would like to ask the Minister whether the police are also doing a structured and coordinated job of tracking down weapons. If not, is he willing to take steps to implement such an approach? Can he indicate what steps need to be taken to achieve this? And if there is an approach, what additional steps could be taken? That brings me to the second point. We must do everything we can to tackle and disrupt organised crime. We will have a separate debate on this very soon and certainly more often, but I would like to make one point again. I've put it forward before. If we want to stop the organized crime that is the source of the liquidation violence, only using criminal law is not enough and certainly not sufficiently effective. It is crucial that everything is done to ensure that crime does not pay off. Focus on taking away. Focus on disruption. Al Capone didn't get behind bars because of criminal law, but because of tax law. In order to tackle organised crime, public services need to cooperate and, above all, exchange information. The key to success could be even more with the Tax Administration than with the police. And I keep getting signals that there are big procedures of bottlenecks in the exchange of information between administrations and that they have different policies in one location than the other. As long as that isn't resolved, the criminals are the laughing third and they can do whatever they want. Then they can continue to undermine the rule of law and sow violence. Mr President, I see a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u7	So do I, but I think you're almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u8	I would also like to read out my last paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u9	Then I suggest you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u10	Okay. In what way will the Minister make an effort to ensure that public services cooperate generously in the sharing of information and the coordinated disruption and handling of hardened criminals? The VVD will warmly welcome every concrete step in this area, because we must never accept that the law of the strongest is in force in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u11	Now it is a coincidence that I have put on a motion in which we ask that, in the interests of the municipal approach to undermining, we look at how better to cooperate with the Tax Administration, precisely in order to enable that information to be shared. That motion was dissuaded by this minister. My question to you is how you judge that. Would it perhaps be wise to put this motion to the vote, possibly modified jointly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u12	I'll just have to dig into my memory. I think that motion was about exchanging information between mortgage providers and the Tax Administration. I think that pinched. I wanted to make a point that Mrs Kuik might agree with. Maybe we can put that in a motion. That's really about sharing between public administrations. The police would like information from the social services and the tax authorities. If we can make that smoother, we can act faster. Above all, we must ensure that all these services cooperate equally easily each time. We have been to Brabant ourselves recently, and there we got the signal that the Tax Administration is cooperating generously in one half of the province and in the other half is much more difficult. I'd like to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u13	It does indeed listen closely because the Chamber has adopted a motion which is precisely about improving the sharing of information between the FIOD and the municipal services. That is step one, and the Minister must do it properly. But the motion is also very specific about the Tax Administration and the role it plays in collecting money for real estate, read money laundering. I would also ask you to take that particular point into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u14	I am certainly in favour of this. The exchange of information between non-government services is even more complicated, but I am positive on the basis. It still requires an extra degree of care. First of all, let us ensure that there is a smooth and smooth exchange between these administrations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u15	I have heard Mr Rutte talk about a structural approach to illegal possession of weapons. He mentioned a number of points, but I missed the border controls, of which my group has always been a strong supporter. I remember very well that Mr Rutte's current group chairman, when he was still Secretary of State, admitted that the VVD chose another option because the VVD was not in favour of it, but that border controls would help. Hence my question to Mr Rutte: what is his position on border controls? I am asking this question, bearing in mind the statement of the Deputy Head of Unit in Amsterdam, that these open borders are a huge problem for the transit and import of arms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u16	I am a huge supporter of a structured approach to illegal possession of weapons. We really need to look at that and I asked the Minister about it. I can imagine a targeted border control when you've got a tip that something's coming. But if we are really going to close the borders of our country, it may be very beneficial for reducing the possession of weapons, but it is also a means of side-effects. And it may be so big that the disadvantage is greater than the advantage. So I am not in favour of closing the borders, but a targeted border control as part of a plan of action to do something about the possession of weapons would, of course, be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u17	Then I'm just trying to take the golden middle course. The closing of borders will indeed be very difficult, but we also have a lot of unhumanized border posts. Maybe it's an idea to start manning them. Will Mr Rutte take part in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u18	I'm repeating myself. I am in favour of a targeted integrated approach to illegal possession of weapons. That's really necessary, and that's what we'll find each other on. You have to look very carefully at the extent to which you want to close the borders because that medicine also has very bad side effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u19	I missed another point in Mr Rutte's speech, namely capacity. To be able to detect and have a good information position, you need enough people. The leader of the VVD in Amsterdam, Mr Van der Burg, of course also expressed his dismay at these murders. He said: "There is a need for maximum commitment, where there should be no restrictions on staff and finance. That really requires extra money, and that should clear the cabinet." Does Mr Rutte agree with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u20	As a matter of principle, I'm not opposed to extra money for police. We're also making extra money available for the police. That money still needs to be invested. Let's get to work on that, get more cops trained. I want those agents deployed where it's most effective. I understand that an alderman in Amsterdam will always say that these agents must be deployed in Amsterdam. He has a good story with that, but I am also quite sure that the alderman in Rotterdam will say that they should be deployed in Rotterdam. I don't think it's up to me to say from this place where police capacity should be deployed. But if that happens, then as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u21	When Mr Van der Burg gave this quote, of course he knew what was in the coalition agreement. If he is in favour of extra money, he does not, of course, mean the funds promised by the cabinet, which hopefully will come soon. Everyone inside and outside the CID sees that what we're doing right now is actually insufficient. I'm going to believe the Minister when he says we're giving this top priority and we're going to deal with the liquidations. At the same time, however, we know that as a result of this, robberies, burglaries and all kinds of other criminal offences will end up on the shelf. I really appeal to Mr Rutte. The CDA has promised in its election programme and in the Spring paper that extra money will be provided. Mr. Rutte, please join us and arrange it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u22	Additional capacity will always be requested for the police. There is really something going on in Amsterdam, but that also applies to other places. I therefore think it is extremely important that we use the capacity where it is most needed. I also think it is important that we invest extra in police. That's what we're gonna do. I also think it is extremely important that we reduce absenteeism, because it improves the operational strength of the police. Those are all things we have to do, and I think we are not disagreeing on that either. But I'm not gonna wave a magic wand here today and say, there's so many hundreds of millions coming in for the police. I think that's way too easy. Unfortunately, the world isn't that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mr. Chairman. You want to make sure that you can let your children, young adults, stay safely on the street. You don't want them to be the victim of a misdemeanor. But unfortunately, this is not an incident, and it is not the first incident in which innocent victims fall. The time when criminals alone were liquidating each other is long behind us, and the threat to ordinary people is becoming more and more acute. The murder of the key witness' family does raise a number of important questions. My question to the Minister is as follows. If the family initially refuses to accept protection, how can we act to point out the risks and insist on full protection? I understand that you can never go into the individual case exactly, but this is still a question that is really open. Mr. Chairman. In the discussions we have had on the security of directors and on the security of journalists, but also now in connection with the horrific murder in Amsterdam, it is stated from all sides that the workload for the people responsible for the witness protection programmes and in particular the people of the Guards and Security Unit is too high. It's at the limit of what can be realized. My question to the Minister is therefore how he deals with this matter. After all, the threats are getting bigger and bigger. The number of people who need to be protected may be increasing. So we can't go on unbridled. How do we deal with the different interests involved? The public prosecutor, the public prosecutor and the police may have different interests than the unit itself in the choices it makes. How do they make their choices when it comes to witnesses in a protection program that now has about 200 people in it? How do we ensure that the Guard and Secure Unit can continue to do its job but that it does not face impossible and unacceptable dilemmas? She needs to be able to continue to deliver customization, but can we still give that guarantee? I really wonder whether further research should be carried out into how the system works now, how the unit should make its choices, how it has the capacity to do so, and what balance of interests is required of it. I don't know if that still fits within the time we're living right now and the questions we're asking her. That calls for a serious answer. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this is specifically about the incidents we have had, but the fight against organised crime, the fight against the mafia, is only going to be won if we have sufficient capacity overall. This requires so much of the detectives, not only in Amsterdam but also in the South of the Netherlands! It has been said before, and it has been said this morning in the debate on the police: there will really need to be more money for capacity. In addition, there is already a comprehensive package in the Ministry with many measures that the Minister can take to counter undermining. Among other things, it is about undermining the upper world, which is now helping in the underworld. It concerns better ICT, the exchange of data with the Tax Administration, the extension of pre-trial detention and the fight against violence. The ambitions are great, and my only appeal is: show here in the Chamber above all that the Minister, together with Minister Dekker, is able to succeed quickly. The people who want to tackle the undermining know exactly what they need. Listen to them, join hands and make sure we can deal with this together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u26	The war in Amsterdam crime has reached a new low. After all the brutal violence, the shelling, the murders, the gun clatter, after somewhere a head was left on the sidewalk, after misdemeanours, after journalists had to be secured for serious threats, the new low point is that the brother was killed by the man who made statements to criminals. Pure harassment, brutal violence: these are mafia situations in our own capital. This is totally unacceptable. We have to deal with this serious crime. My first question to the Minister is: what about the information position of the Amsterdam police? I know the detectives are doing everything they can. There's a lot of hard work there under difficult circumstances. But how did this gang war get so out of hand? Why has there not been timely and adequate intervention here? How could this escalate like that? I'd like an analysis from the Minister. My second question to the Minister concerns capacity. The SP has been worried about that for a long time. Those concerns are not removed by the promised investments, because they are inadequate to do what is necessary, namely to ensure that there are enough detectives to improve the information position, by detectives and tackling serious criminals. There are far too many weapons in circulation. This is very easy to come by now. How are we going to deal with this effectively and concretely? What's the Minister's plan? And what impact does the detective's commitment to liquidations have on other forms of crime, the robberies and the home invasions? They're gonna stay on the shelf now, and that's unacceptable. As I said, local parties such as the VVD are now demanding more money for security, so they are also pointing out that they are dissatisfied with the way things are going now. How much extra money will the Spring note bring for security, as the CDA promised in the campaign? Next, an important point is how we ensure that we provide the right protection to people who need protection, to people who are about to make statements and now also to their family members. What about the capacity at the Guard and Secure Service, formerly the DKDB? We hear such noises. There's been heavy understaffing. You can't do that in the present time, can you? How will the Minister ensure that vacancies are filled quickly? And does the Minister agree with me that there should actually be a buffer so that there is no acute shortage of security guards in acute threats? My next question is: who makes the risk assessment for the environment? What does this mean for the wives and children of the witnesses, for the rest of the family? Shouldn't a second weighing and checking moment be built in to determine the risks involved in a deal and whether the environment can be secured? I'd like a reaction to that. I do not think we can escape putting the question on the table at what price we make deals with key witnesses. I understand the obvious importance of detection, but if it is to be predicted that there is a great danger to innocent people such as family members, should there be such a deal at all costs? It is an intrusive question to the Minister, but I do believe that this question should also be asked. Should the judiciary use key witnesses if the safety of innocent family members cannot be guaranteed? The Minister seems to suggest in his letter that the person concerned, the final victim, was unwilling to cooperate in the security measures. That is how I read it, but the question is, of course, how fully informed he has been about the consequences and risks and to what extent the threat has been properly assessed and communicated by the Public Prosecutor. Of course you base your choice to cooperate or not. I would also like to get a reaction on that point. Finally. We must never accept it if the criminals think they are untouchable. Never. I ask the Minister to make every effort and do whatever is necessary, including in terms of police and security capacity, so that we can protect people at risk. Because that too is our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u27	I understand that Mr Van Nispen raises the question of those key witnesses, but at the same time I find it a bit uncomfortable because it also has something of capitulating to the threat of a world that we all want to get rid of. Mr Van Nispen is now putting the question to the Minister, but I am curious to see how he sees it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u28	I understand that question, but I am simply saying here: it is a dilemma, if we say it here, and I said it myself, it is important that we receive statements from witnesses, including key witnesses, to deal with criminals. That is important, as I have said here, and we must do as much as possible to provide protection. But I do raise the question at what price we are prepared to do so. I find that an intrusive question, which I find difficult to answer myself. That question here is not a capitulation. If we cannot adequately protect the families, the lives of innocent people, then I think it is our duty to at least raise that question here and put that dilemma on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u29	Of course, asking a question is not a capitulation, but one of the possible answers might be. If we draw the conclusion that you are keeping open that we should stop because we cannot guarantee safety, let's make every effort to ensure that we can. Do we not actually capitulate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u30	In any case, we agree that you must do everything you can to ensure maximum safety. I didn't ask questions about the fact that there aren't enough detectives right now. If you're a good detective, you're less likely to be dependent on the deals with key witnesses. I didn't raise the question about a shortage of people in the Security and Security Service for nothing. I think you should protect the people who are willing to explain and their family members to the maximum. At the same time, we do not escape the question... If an analysis shows that certain people cannot be protected, that the threat is so great that the circle of those involved is not fully secure, then I think we should ask the question here... I put it to the Minister now, and I am indeed not giving it the definitive answer myself, because I would find it pretentious if I were to do so now from my point of view. I don't have all the information on these cases. I do not have all that information at my disposal, and I should not want it as a Member of Parliament. But I do think that the question here should be asked to the Minister at what price we should proceed with this kind of deal. I'm not shaving them all over a comb, because it's always custom-made, and it's about an assessment of what a particular deal with a key witness can bring for risks for innocent people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Speaking time is exactly four minutes for everyone, including you, Mr Hiddema. I'm very strict today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u32	Doesn't it depend on the quality of the offer, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u33	All contributions are good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u34	I will keep the momentum going, Madam President. The ritual is almost complete. The predictable scene of powerful politics is reappearing here. There's social unrest, there's liquidation. Those guys, they're gonna shoot off, what a mess. The papers are screaming alarms. The politicians are shocked. The parliamentary question is coming, the minister is here and that confirms the ritual. The minister completes the ritual with conditioned reflexes. The Minister announces measures; he has no choice. But those are impeccable cries, that's barking at the moon. It is not an analysis: how can we deal with these types with existing legislation? No, it's fleeing to the future, with a strong focus on the future and new legislation. What do we read? The trade in automatic weapons is being tackled. I need to keep up the momentum. Then I think, "Hey, haven't we?" We need to raise the penalty for Category II weapons. Well, that makes sense in this environment. 15-year-old boys aren't here until they have at least a 9 millimeter in their pocket. Nowadays you are not fully grown with 16, 17 if you do not know how to operate a kalashnikov. And then the minister comes here with a bill because the penalty has to be increased. I also read that the perpetrators of serious crime such as violence and organized liquidations should be punished even more severely. Liquidation is murder, and it's a life sentence. If the Minister wants another step up, I'll find out how he wishes to achieve it. I don't know! What to do? These are all messages from dreamland. I do think the Minister should show vision. I think the Minister is actually saying how should I put it? Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I wish the minister here said: I had a dream, I had a vision and in that vision I saw columns of police cars full of confiscated illegal weapons from certain city quarters rising up to the desks and I finished that, that was all at my command. Then the minister wakes up a little bit and he thinks: could it be, but I can't do it because between dream and act there are laws and I can't just let go of raids completely. But I'd still like the Minister to hold that vision for a while and then emigrate to the CID's cry for help. We treated it here in February. Then he has a mere à boire of possibilities to act. Because you can, as is now being tried again, formally tell you how to use key witnesses, but what you have to start with is exterminate weapon nests and that is completely left behind. In the emergency call of the police, the Minister can read the emergency call of the detectives, that report of 400 interviews with detectives that 80% of the declarations remain on the shelf. But what is interesting is that one in nine criminal organisations is actually being tackled. They're mostly drug-related gangs, and every drug case involves a weapon. So here one of the nine cases is being prosecuted. Look what's on that shelf. Now there's another shelf. That's what that report says. More than half of the criminal aid requests from abroad that gives the Netherlands a very bad name also disappears in the trash. These requests for legal aid are all requests for plundering from Germany, where they were arrested, with lines to the city quarters the minister dreamed of, and robberies in France and Belgium, with lines that the minister can dream of. Nothing's gonna happen to that. I'd like to ask the Minister to do the following. We have once advocated the principle of legality here on behalf of the Forum. Then the D.A.'s gonna have to prosecute. The government won't let that happen, and the Chamber won't like it. Can I at least ask the Minister to ensure that at least all those things that I am now referring to, which are on that shelf, are raked and at least for a little while? Is there a weapons-related aspect, are all these international requests for legal aid, arms-related, persons and premises mentioned, is there at least the manpower for the eight criminal gangs that have never been investigated to see if there are any weapons-related aspects to persons and premises, and can then at least the arms law be introduced with those investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u36	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u38	I'd say let the vans come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's mostly a question of interest. The dream Mr. Hiddema wants, does that have a link to the fact that Martin Luther King died 50 years ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u41	I think that's a totally inappropriate question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u42	Oh. I really thought it was all "I have a dream," so I was waiting for your lovely speech. It was a serious question. I thought I didn't see it coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u43	No, but I make my own associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u44	But perhaps Mrs Buitenweg is asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u45	Well, it's unfortunate. I had hoped that Mr Hiddema would return to the civil rights movement more precisely and that that was his link. I didn't think he was gonna finish him off, so I was hoping he'd come back to that. But I understand now that it's actually just a complete coincidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u46	Well, maybe a little bit. Look, the issue is this. I have considered the Minister's letter as a message from dreamland, but yet I thought: an inspired minister here can never hurt. Then I gave him a dream that he saw columns of police cars loaded with seized weapons coming from city quarters to the police stations and all that on his command. That seemed like a nice dream to me. You want to hold it, if you really want to do something in practice. He can do that using the methods I now provide him: raking in the files and dragging out the houses. Call it the rake-and-drag method.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u48	Am I in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u49	Good, this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u50	Then you owe me some thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u51	We did it. Thank you. Then Mr Groothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The spiral of violence in Amsterdam is unacceptable. The unsubs are breaking our standards and our rules with brutal force. Every assassination attempt calls for another counter-reaction. Particularly worrying is that the liquidations are often carried out unprofessionally it is a bit of a striking word. The shooters are often young and inexperienced and take collateral damage on sale. It's common for unsubs to make mistakes in their victims. By doing so, this violence, as it were, goes beyond the criminal environment and touches ordinary innocent citizens. Extremely worrying. Mr. Chairman. The murder of a key witness' brother is a new low. This seems to be pure harassment of that star witness. But liquidations are often committed for other reasons: to punish someone, to silence someone or to prevent their own liquidation. In order to combat this type of violence properly, an understanding of the information position in the criminal world, as Mr Van Nispen would say, is very important. I agree with the questions he has put to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Clearly, the violence must stop. However, the question is how we can achieve this. I don't think we're gonna come up with the solution today. I don't even think there's a solution. I do see three main lines that we could work through. Firstly, to strengthen detection and prosecution. The cabinet is already making a considerable extra effort, with extra money for police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, for detectives as well as for agents in the district. But it's not just about money. It is especially important to invest in a police force that is in contact with all groups in society. After all, it is often difficult to get information from closed communities that you do not know very well. So, as a policeman, you have to make sure that you have people who know their way around different environments. In other words, diversity. And we need to build a modern detective who is well aware of digital resources, which know its way around the financial world, so that we can also tackle the big boys, who are often out of the loop now. Investing in knowledge and quality. The police are already working hard on this, but this is a long-term process, in which the police and the Public Prosecutor deserve our support. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, we need to look at the different protection measures. Does the systems that we have meet the demands if they are faced with this level of violence involving third parties also rücksichtslos? I would like to hear from the Minister what bottlenecks he sees and what solutions he is working on. In particular, I would like to ask whether the monitoring and security system is in line with the Witness Protection Programme. In other words, what about the protection of neighbors or friends of any witnesses or key witnesses? Finally, Mr President, prevention. After all, prevention is better than cure. I do not have the illusion that we can prevent everything, but I think it is wise to prevent young people from slipping into the criminal environment. It is therefore very important to offer opportunities, but also to intervene at an early stage in the event of a failure. A while ago, as a Chamber, we received a study from the WODC, which showed that there are often home-grown shooters, so boys just from the neighbourhoods in Amsterdam. Often these are young boys with limited talent and a kind of romantic image of serious crime. You should try to alert and correct these young people early before they commit serious crimes. This means intervention when you see as a school that they often skip school, are not at school, and also intervene when the district agent finds that young people are derailed or hanging out in squares. My question to the Minister on this point is whether he sees opportunities to improve this preventive approach and whether he sees opportunities to support Amsterdam in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Grothuizen. Finally, Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps even to Mr Hiddema: it was Martin Luther King's daughter who spoke during a demonstration in recent days about the need to ban weapons. So I thought you'd made a huge spot-on observation, but sometimes that's a coincidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u55	If that can stimulate the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u56	... then we'll join in. Very good. Madam President. It seems as if these liquidations are happening more often, and perhaps they are, but it seems all the more so because they are increasingly occurring close to us, in the neighborhoods where we are, and also hit more innocent citizens, such as in Amsterdam in Wittenburg or near the NDSM site. It is important that we also discuss today how all this can be better dealt with. I don't think anyone in this room was very upset, including the murder of the key witness' brother, Nabil B., and the cold calculation that was made of it. Police investigations have already produced the necessary results in this and other liquidation cases. I think we are all grateful for that. But the challenges are great, as colleagues have said, and I want to make three points. One is about the weapons. It turns out that these automatic weapons are quite easy to obtain in the Netherlands and that this is partly due to the organized crime associations from the Western Balkans. The Minister has said that this must be combated. In his letter, as in yesterday's debate on inciting violence or hatred, he once again sought the solution in increasing the penalty. But, as I said then, I do not think that a more effective approach is found in increasing the penalty rate, but above all in increasing the chance of getting caught. What else is being done about that? Is more action now being taken at national and European level to tackle the supply of these weapons from the Balkans? And what other measures are being taken at national and European level? Then the protection of the key witnesses and their neighbors. I understand very well that it is difficult for the Minister to provide all kinds of information about this, including the capacity of that organisation. At the same time, we do read all about it in the sense that there is little capacity. We heard, for example, from the journalists' hearing that there was a problem with capacity. That's what we're dealing with. In what way can the Minister remove our concerns about this capacity or otherwise ensure that the problems with capacity are addressed? Because it cannot be that there is a capacity problem at such an important point and that we let that happen or we look away from it. I also understand the doubt Mrs Van Toorenburg had. She said, "What do you have to do if someone doesn't want to be protected?" That's what I'm struggling with, because it's hard to secure someone against his will. Someone has to cooperate to make it work. At the same time, an attack as we saw it hits the family first and foremost, but it is also an attack on the rule of law. How do you deal with that? The Minister said that there would be an international comparative investigation into key witness schemes. Of course, that's very interesting. Does it include how other countries deal with the security and protection of the key witnesses and their neighbours? If it isn't, isn't it interesting to look at that? One final point concerns the easily impressionable young people, who are increasingly being forced into the cart of the heavy criminals, as the D66 colleague said. They're getting younger. They're often weakly gifted. Amateurism is what it's gonna be. For little money, they're willing to do the most horrible things. How do we deal with that? Tomorrow we will have a general discussion on judicial youth. I saw that it doesn't come up there again, when I think: how is that possible, since this is such an important point? There are two ministers in this one ministry, but I hope that does not lead to breeding. We are going to discuss it tomorrow, but we have seen that there is sometimes a lack of good youth care, good forced youth care, that this has repercussions, and that problems with young people are not detected in time and are not always properly addressed. How does this Minister intend to take up this issue in the context of these liquidations with his colleague at the same ministry and his colleague on youth care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u57	Thank you. This was the first term of office. I see the Minister needs a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u58	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u59	Madam President. In recent times, we have faced the dirtiest excesses of organized drug crime. An innocent father of two children was shot in broad daylight last Thursday in his office. It is well known to all of us that the victim is the brother of a key witness in a major investigation into liquidations in the world of organized drug crime. A shocking and totally unacceptable incident. Three suspects have been apprehended in the past weekend, and the criminal investigation is at least in full swing. This liquidation is the last in a series of violent attacks that took place mainly in and around Amsterdam. In addition, there are a few painful similarities. The first is the apparent absence of standards. Looks like the price for a hit is lower than ever and is still falling. The perpetrators are often young, but in any case quite willing to commit extreme violence, taking for granted what happens in the environment as a sort of collateral damage.................................................................................................................................................................................. They have increasingly heavy automatic firearms at their disposal. A second nasty agreement is the social danger. Those liquidations are just taking place in broad daylight in public space, like in January in a community center, where a completely innocent boy was shot. I cannot say better than Mrs Buitenweg said: those liquidations are, as it seems, getting closer and closer. The chance of a random, innocent citizen being hit is simply present. Now, for the first time, a family member of a key witness, that family member, has not himself been involved, has become the victim of a cold murder. I repeat: that is extremely shocking; it is tragic for the family and shocking for our society. The number of liquidations has been about the same for years, on average. There are fluctuations: after a peak in 2014, with more than 35 liquidations, we saw a decline in recent years. Specific focus on Amsterdam: there were six liquidations in 2016 and three in 2017. The prevention of liquidations is difficult, but police and prosecutors are doing everything they can to make it as difficult as possible or to cut them off in advance. Within the police and the prosecutors, a high level of capacity is released for winding-up investigations. The seriousness of those facts and the serious consequences for society......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The investigation of potential offenders involves cooperation between the police and OM units concerned, and the various incidents are dealt with in a coherent manner. The liquidations are not seen by the police and the prosecutor as separate incidents. These are serious expressions of what we now call undermining crime: crime that penetrates and hostages the ordinary neighborhood, and that just happens between innocent civilians. This is crime that needs to be addressed in relation to the underlying problem, such as large-scale drug crime. This requires a long-term approach, which explores criminal links and exposes facilitating networks. I shall come back to that in a little more detail. Key witness statements can be very valuable and can be decisive in the detection and prosecution of this serious crime. If you will allow me, I would like to address the question raised by the SP... No, let me do that at the end of my speech, because I think it is a very important issue that Mr Van Nispen has raised. First of all, I would like to outline the measures we are currently working on, and all the money we are putting into it. We're also dealing with the trade in those automatic weapons. I've said it's shock to see how easily those occasional hit men, it seems, are in possession of it. This is addressed, among other things, by a coordinating arms prosecutor, more investigation and increased penalties. Of course, increasing punishment is not the only thing we have to do, but it must be very clear first of all that whoever does this is really stuck for a while. We also want these people out of society for a while, I think. In this connection, the Chamber adopted yesterday a motion by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Rutte, which means that the penalty is doubled for possession of automatic firearms. I would like to have said out loud that I am going to proceed with this motion. At the same time, on 8 March last, the European directive on weapons was tightened up to make it possible for weapons that have been decommissioned to be really deactivated. That is an answer to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question, I think. The bill is currently before the Council of State for advice. I'm going to come back to potential offenders who commit serious crimes in an organized context. I would like to stress once again that they must be punished more severely. So I will also shortly come forward with a legislative proposal which will increase the penalty ceiling for participants in organisations committing serious crimes from six to a maximum of ten years in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u60	I'm just trying to understand if we're dealing with weapons now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u61	No, that cup hasn't been handled yet. I have a number of questions that I will deal with in a moment. However, in the context of the text of the speech, I thought it appropriate to mention this point now, otherwise it might all get a bit loose. Strengthening the approach to organised undermining crime is an important mission of this cabinet and of me as a coordinating minister. In the coalition agreement, important framework conditions have been created that reflect the shared ambition on this point. I wrote a letter on this subject to you on 16 February, in which I explained this approach in detail. In any case, I said that the government is making 10 million more available in structural terms, and is also making an additional investment of 100 million this year, purely to combat this organized undermining crime. It is therefore a matter of continuing the national roll-out of the task force approach against organised crime, which has so far produced a lot of results in Brabant. As you know, this is mainly about cooperation between police, prosecutors, tax authorities and municipalities and other local authorities. I have already said that has produced a lot of results in recent times. In addition, there is the extension of the legal opportunities for information exchange, so that we can better detect and punish not only the criminals, but also better and more comprehensively identify and take away the proceeds. Mr Rutte was right to say that it should not pay. That is one of the things that must also be very clearly at the forefront. I come to the promotion of further cooperation between the public and private sector, so that municipalities, for example, can cooperate more closely with energy companies and identify where there is extreme energy consumption and where drug labs can be suspected. I am also in the process of adapting opium legislation. This concerns not only an update to the current substrates used to make pills, but also further powers to enter, not only when there is a suspicion of drugs but also when there is a suspicion of drug-related equipment. In addition, there is the additional investment in police and detection, both qualitatively and quantitatively. I would like to point out that I have often said here that we are talking about EUR 267 million in structural terms. The question has rightly been asked whether this means investing in strengthening detection. Yes. It is a question of increasing the capacity of detectives, but also of improving that capacity, for example by increasing the commitment to digitalisation. Some time ago, I set out to the Chambers in the framework of a general discussion what has already been developed by certain security regions in the field of digital detection and, above all, the mapping of criminal networks. I very much encourage the Chamber to visit the police in Groningen, in particular, which has developed an extremely impressive system, which will make huge criminal networks visible and can be traced further at the touch of a button. To reply very briefly to Mr Hiddema: I do not call that " barking at the moon', it is simply using resources to make sure that we really get to work on that search. And indeed, my point on the horizon would be my goal: to make sure that in a few years' time we can say that we have struck this undermining organised crime a major blow, that we have reduced it considerably. At the same time, Madam President, you may appeal to me as well, of course, to Members of this House that I do not keep dreaming, but actually turn it into action. I would like to say one more thing, which is also reflected in the excellent way in which the police and the public prosecutors have started to investigate this terrible liquidation case. I keep repeating that the Dutch police are in place 7 on the international ranking. That is a very high place, considering that a few police forces like Germany and Singapore really are above that. I absolutely want to say that again. I appreciate the work of the Dutch police. I am in consultation with mayors and police these days about the exact use of the resources I have just spoken about, for the benefit of the police. We are, of course, involving the needs that we see in the country with regard to the excesses, I called it 'the dirty excesses' of organized crime. I have two more points. Increasing penalties and improving detection is not the only thing. Mr Grothuizen and Mrs Buitenweg stressed the importance of prevention. I can assure you that Mr Dekker and the Minister of SZW are working together on this point and will not look into it in boxes. I will say a little more about this later, in reply to the question on this subject. Finally, before I systematically answer all the questions, I would like to say something about international cooperation. A conference will be held on 17 May between the Netherlands, Belgium and the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia, and in particular between the rulers from those countries with my portfolio. In doing so, we will agree on a plan of action aimed at the jointly coordinated further approach to this type of organised crime. It will also aim to counter waterbed effects if you fight it here, it will go to another area of the island. On the weekend before Easter with my Belgian colleague, Mr Jambon, I also made the final points concerning the forthcoming new Benelux Police Treaty, which will only strengthen this cooperation. So we are also working on international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u62	The Minister spoke when he talked about youth, about prevention. The point I want to make is indeed also about prevention, but also about what we offer young people when they have already gone wrong. Tomorrow we will discuss this further, but even if the judge is already involved, it often turns out that the right youth aid is not available, nor is there any compelling youth aid. Sometimes there are waiting lists. So even though the judge is involved, there are obstacles to offering what even the judge thinks is necessary. That's my question. Can the Minister discuss this with his colleagues, both within his own Ministry and at Social Affairs, in order to ensure a much better link between judicial and youth aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u63	The fact that I will actually enter into consultations, I would like to make a commitment to this. I think it would be good if I included in the general discussion on youth and youth approaches that the Chamber will have tomorrow with the two colleagues. I fully agree that we will continue to discuss this issue. I also underline what Mrs Buitenweg says. It is precisely if we want to combat this in a good way that we need to tackle prevention or prevention in the middle of time, not in the case of people who have already strayed once, but collectively and coordinatedly. I now turn to Mr Van Nispen's question about key witnesses. I understand very well that he himself is struggling with the dilemma here. That is the question of whether the prosecution should want to continue to use key witnesses if something like this happens. Given the apparent increase in uncontrolled brutality in public space, with fully automatic weapons as we have seen painfully enough, the Public Prosecutor, as well as the police, is much inclined to stop it. That is where the dilemma arises, because the use of key witnesses can make a decisive contribution to detection and prosecution. You have read in my letter that this key witness was in an environment where these kinds of crimes occurred; let me just put it this way. The prosecution pays a great deal of attention to assessing the security risks to the witness and his neighbors. The prosecution also assures me that this will be taken into account in the decision whether or not to make such a deal. And then I'm still well aware of the extremely precarious position of "difficult position" is still very weakly expressed "in which the neighbors end up in some kind of despair." The dilemma is, of course, that it is on the one hand and that on the other hand such a horrible event as this by force against an innocent outsider at the same time demonstrates the need for a tough approach to organized crime. If you let that go, or if you don't do something about it, you're at the mercy of the wolves. In this case, the witness, an insider in the criminal environment, as I said, contacted the police and the prosecutor himself in order to explain in detail his involvement and the involvement of others in liquidations. He felt threatened, he said. He had conscience, too. But the piece "he felt threatened" again shows the complexity of this dilemma. Here too, of course, the last word on this dilemma has not yet been said. I would like to say this to you quite frankly, Madam President. The key witness programme is well set up and has good safeguards in the field of protection. And the D.A.'s gonna make careful considerations. That does not alter the fact that, together, we have all learned with horror that for the first time here is a family member of a key witness butcher's sacrifice. I would briefly like to say to Mrs Kuik that, for the sake of research and the safety of those concerned, I cannot go into what has been said here. This will of course continue to be the subject of the hearing in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u64	I understand if I understand that the Minister can't comment on this individual matter. But I have also in general asked a number of questions about the Witness Protection Program and the way in which security takes place from the Security and Security Service. In particular, I asked on the basis of what criteria they decide. Can they do that independently if the workload increases? A thesis from 2015 already shows that these systems are not sufficiently separate. Who's gonna fall into what category? Independence was also explicitly described; therefore my questions about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u65	I would like to comment on this and then also on the questions put by Mrs Van Toorenburg. Look, in practice, people don't want to participate fully or do not want to participate in security. This, of course, means that the government is less able to take additional responsibility for the safety of the person concerned. In such a case, the person at risk is called upon to try to convince him or her that it is important to accept or cooperate with the security measures. The last thing is that it's not possible to force people. Where necessary and possible, the police, acting on behalf of the competent authority, may take measures to at least reduce the risk to third parties. But of course that is not the ideal situation where you can really bring someone completely under the program.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u66	I was a little further on my question. It is not only because of this terrible incident, but also because of the hearing we have held here. There were both directors and journalists. All of them say: the system of unit security is under pressure because the workload is too high. In addition, it raises the question of whether the Witness Protection Program and the Guard and Security Unit can still operate independently. Who's gonna decide? Can they serve all the interests that are being asked of them? The D.A., the parole board and the police can have a different interest than the unit. Isn't it time to re-evaluate the system? How do we ensure that independence? A 2015 dissertation already shows that the systems are not sufficiently separated. Criteria are lacking and there is a need for greater independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u67	Let me start by saying something about this capacity. Actually, the system is robust enough. That has also come from Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Van Toorenburg and you. Threat and risk are leading to the identification of the necessary security measures. Of course proportionality plays a role in this. In the context of witness protection, the College of PGs may instruct to prepare a threat analysis and to advise on the protective measures to be taken and their feasibility. It is then up to the authority to decide on the implementation of the protection measures. The system regulates how monitoring and security functions, how security measures are decided on the basis of that threat and risk information and who is responsible for implementation. That is a set of regulations and agreements, which are all about that. The D.A., the police, the intelligence and security services and the administrative organisations shall cooperate. That system is robust and well-equipped. The Guard and Secure Service carries out all commands with its current capacity. Work is under way to balance the occupation and formation. There are currently a number of vacancies. There will be an intensification of recruitment activities for the service. As part of the allocation, additional resources may go to the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u68	May I post a second interruption, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u70	I hear the minister say he thinks the system is robust, but what does he base it on? We have a hearing after a hearing in this house. Everyone says: The Guard and Secure Service runs against the limits of what it can handle. Work pressure's too high. In 2016 we had a very urgent report stating that there was a lot going on. In the meantime, the threat has only increased. Is it not true that the last incident does not call for guilty fingers towards responsible governments, but rather for a rethinking of the sustainability of the system? Is it not asking for a different division of labour, clear criteria, independent review and more capacity, because the workload is really too high? The latter is gradually being shared by friend and enemy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u71	I think that the events that we are meeting here tonight, the events that took place in January and last weekend, are serious enough to offer you the opportunity to explain again in a letter that I believe would be robust enough at the moment. I will also include capacity and workload. If necessary, we can talk about that. It seems to me that it is worth discussing this with each other in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u72	The last question, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u73	I'll take this hand-out, but I'd like to add one more element. How is it now ensured that independent customization can also be provided by the Security and Security Service while it is mangled by importance weighing outside her? They're not about their own budget, and they're not about their own human power. So how can they relate to all these interests and how can they guarantee that independence? I would very much like to add that element to the letter, because I think that is very essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u74	We are very much in agreement, but I think what you're saying is the crux of that robust one. If someone from the D.A.'s office would say, "Well, I think this is so well arranged," it's not robust. The question is, of course, whether this has been adequately tested. It seems to me that that letter will say something about that too. So I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u75	Also at this point of the Guarding and Security Service and the heavy understaffing. There are a lot of vacancies open there. I think the Minister may be going to say that he is not, because I can already hear him react. My information is that there are a lot of vacancies open there. I am not in favour of a capacity increase and I am not in favour of additional investment, but I would like these vacancies to be filled out quickly. This did not happen yesterday, because it has been going on for quite some time. How will the Minister ensure that these vacancies are filled quickly? It is precisely in the present times that we cannot have the protection and security that we sometimes have to offer running against our borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u76	I told him there were vacancies. I think you're a little... Let me put it this way: I do not agree that it would be a very large number. I have said that recruitment activities will be stepped up in the short term, and that will be the case. The vacancies also concern security guards. What I can at least promise you is that we will step up this recruitment process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u77	A letter has just been promised. I would like to ask the Minister to include at least two points. In my opinion, this recruitment has been tried for some time and that raises the question of whether working conditions can be considered and whether the current working conditions will make it very difficult to fill these vacancies. My second question I also asked in my speech: would it not be good to see if a buffer can be built, so that in times of acute increase in the threat, there is not an acute shortage of people in the Guard and Secure Service?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u78	I'll take that in the letter. I think it is only right to discuss all these aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u80	Mr Groothuizen asked about the quality of the search. In my letter of 12 March last, I indicated that further strengthening and further development of detection is needed. As has been said, this will be done through a development agenda search. This agenda consists of three tracks: measures aimed at improving the quality of first-line detection, future-proof detection experiments and specific agreements between police and OM. The government agreement and the extra resources for the police will not only strengthen the search quality but also quantitatively. One of the measures also focuses on reducing unnecessary administrative burdens. In addition, I have already said something about this. I have invested a lot of money in providing information for digital detection, so that we can respond to the ever-changing technology that criminals use. In this context, the police are developing a quality system which should also promote the development of detection in the long term. I refer for that quality system to the letter from my predecessor to your Chamber of 12 April 2017. I now turn to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question about the Haven table. My predecessor and the former Secretary of State for Finance have informed your Chamber that the Port Table has been formed and has met several times. Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the municipality of Rotterdam, customs and the Port Authority are there together, and they agree on the integrated approach of undermining in the port. The Haventable is also the client for the undermining image of the port of Rotterdam. That image is the foundation for the strengthening of the integrated approach of undermining by public and private parties in the port of Rotterdam. So much for the Haven table. Then the guns. I had promised to come back to this question after what I said in my introduction. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked: has prioritising the use of illegal weapons already paid off? Yes. As the Threat Statue signals, as for other illegal goods, such as drugs, there is a market for illegal weapons. Those weapons are supportive of committing all kinds of other crimes. There is currently intensive cooperation with European police forces with regard to illegal weapons, and this actually leads to arrests. I've already talked about the new Arms and Ammo Act. Mrs Van Toorenburg raised the question of the control of prohibited weapons. There was, of course, the ruling of the Supreme Court, I think a few months ago. If you look at the wording of the Arms and Ammunitions Act and place it in the further criminal justice framework, the law offers considerable opportunities to tackle illegal possession of weapons. The police shall have the power to investigate means of transport if reasonably justified. I ran this again with a state's attorney. It's a pretty broad-based jurisdiction. So the threshold is already low. However, I would like to assure you that I will look again at the possibility of extending its scope further. Furthermore, of course, I continue to stress that we must continue to invest in international cooperation in order to continue to tackle the illegal arms trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u81	I thank the Minister for that commitment. I am told by the police that she is concerned that it is easier for her to control a danger triangle than for prohibited weapons. But can the Minister indicate when he will send that letter and when he will have sorted this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u82	I'm gonna have to think about that. In the second term, I will give you a term. As for that danger triangle, I didn't know it was that easy, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u83	The Minister said earlier and says again that we need to work together at European level to deal with this. Are weapons in the Netherlands relatively easily available now? How do we prevent these weapons from coming here, for example, on the Balkan route?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u84	Following, among other things, the attacks in Paris and Brussels, the Netherlands took the lead with the police as initiator of a coordinated approach to illegal firearms in Europe. One consequence of this was the stricter rules adopted by the European Commission on 8 March. Those rules have been put together with all kinds of European experts, mostly police. The fight against illegal possession of arms and the illicit trafficking of arms is taking place at all levels. I referred to the coordinating prosecutor, who coordinates criminal investigations with an arms component. So that is a bit the same as the van referred to by Mr Hiddema metaphorically. In concrete terms, criminal investigations involve good cooperation between the Netherlands and other European services. In this respect, at least in the Netherlands there is a very targeted approach to the fight against arms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u85	Is this actually a change? Should we see it in a way that there really is an intensification in relation to how it was before? Furthermore, my question to what extent relatively many weapons have not yet been answered in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u86	Well, "relatively many weapons"... There are too many illegal weapons in the Netherlands. In 2016, 69 investigations were conducted into arms trafficking. So that does say something, at least about the size of the whole. Furthermore, I can only tell you that it is precisely from the Netherlands taking that lead at European level that it is very clear that the police and prosecutors here give priority to eliminating the illegal arms trade in Europe as much as possible and thus also in the Netherlands. And I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u87	We hear the deadline of the letter in second term. I have a question about the reasonable suspicion and so I can check it for gun possession. I know the continued application. That's what you had to learn in law school. That requires reasonable suspicion. But we have also made legislation that allows a mayor to designate an area in which he can be preventively searched on knives and the like. Could it also be considered in the spirit of this legislation whether the public prosecutor could identify a particular area, for example in Amsterdam, where you can control preventive cars? I'm just calling it a side street.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u88	What you're saying is spot-on. I mean it nicely. But I really want to look at the question put by Mrs Van Toorenburg and, despite the fact that the Arms and Ammunitions Act already gives quite wide powers, to see if we can get any further with that. I'm telling you honestly, I have to take it very carefully when there's such a ruling from the Supreme Court. Well, we'll talk about that later. I will work on it and, of course, come back to your Chamber, that is the promise. I think it was also Mrs Buitenweg who asked about the measure to stop weapons from the Western Balkans. At EU level, the Western Balkans have been receiving a great deal of attention for a number of years, particularly in relation to the fight against illegal weapons, but also organised crime. There is also an action plan aimed at the Western Balkans and firearms. The Dutch police are involved in this. This includes information exchange, training of local enforcers and concerted actions. That may sound a bit like "Oh yes, they still do," but it has been very clearly stated in discussions with representatives of the governments of the Western Balkans that successfully prioritising the fight against illegal weapons and organised crime is an important objective in the light of how we will continue to relate within the... Well, "inside," now outside the EU. I believe that I have answered all the arms questions. I'm just gonna tell you who's missing something. Then, of course, there is Mr Rutte's question about sharing information. You're damn right I didn't. How can we simplify information sharing as much as possible? Improving these opportunities is one of the most important issues in the agenda I have drawn up for this undermining legislation. Why? We have an excellent police force, as I have told you, but I keep saying, wherever I go and not just on work visits. We have an excellent police force, we have a very good to excellent tracking and prosecution device at the state's attorney's office. All excellent people, who are also very well equipped. We have extra money for more capacity and resources. We just have the National Strategic Consultation Approach Undermining, the LSOAO. There's not really a catchy name for.. under the chairmanship of the former mayor of Tilburg, Mr Noordanus. They are already busy with all parties to roll out the approach of task forces nationwide. That is all there, but you must note that at the moment, for example, we are far from taking away all the crime money, the wages of crime. You will find that we are also running into barriers in the field of information collection that ensure that the fight against crime in the field of undermining crime is not yet optimal. It is therefore very important that we should be able to remove barriers there, with due regard, of course, for all data protection and privacy regulations. If I may finish this point: in the letter of 16 February, I said that I gave high priority to extending that information position further. In that letter, I also referred to a forthcoming draft law for data processing by collaborative partnerships. That law should solve three bottlenecks by providing, firstly, a clear basis for the provision of data to those links between public authorities, secondly, a clear basis for data processing within such a grouping, where one government has data and the other does not, and thirdly, an appropriate basis for providing the results of the processing. Because if you are going to work more together and be able to process more with each other, then you need to be able to share it. This should facilitate this Data Processing Act through collaborations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u89	I absolutely share the Minister's words that we have an excellent police force dedicated to tackling organised crime. The examples are also available. I also share the Minister's commitment to sharing information and what it requires. You have to put that together. That's really good. I would like to ask the Minister to pay particular attention to one particular point. During a working visit in Brabant we found out that the Tax Administration, which is not a single service but consists of all different offices, deals with this differently. There are offices that work very well in these kinds of routes, but there are also those that make it a lot more difficult. Would the Minister take this up with the Secretary of State for Finance to see if it could be uniform? I do not mean uniform to the example of the most difficult way, which means that it can no longer be done, but uniform to examples of how things are already going very smoothly in some places at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u90	You're right to make a point. We have set up this Rural Strategic Consultation Approach Undermining in order to be able to look at bottlenecks at all levels in services, but above all at national level. The Secretary of State for Finance is also one of the principals. There is indeed talk within the National Strategic Consultation to ensure that services have a uniform policy in this area, so that cooperation in this area can be further developed. Mr Van Nispen asked about the information position of the Amsterdam police. He also asked whether the use of liquidations would lead to repression in dealing with other offences. The information position is good in itself. The Regional Investigation Service and the Intelligence Service are getting more and more insight into networks, not only the leading ones, but also the lower ones underneath. We're getting a good run-through. I have already told you that the use of advanced investigative methods is also increasing. This also means that I would like to stress once again that the Amsterdam triangle, the local authority of mayor, chief officer and police commissioner, must decide on what police capacity should be deployed in terms of detection and prosecution. Also by the Amsterdam triangle there are sometimes poignant choices made, but liquidations and also the threat of terror require a lot of attention. I have to tell you that the results of Amsterdam on the ordinary crime scenes too, excuse me, Madam President: house burglaries and such like are still good. The Corps deserves a big compliment for that. But sometimes it's inevitable that things will be picked up later than we'd like. In this context, of course, we are absolutely looking at capacity. However, I would like to point out through you to Mr Van Nispen that we should not just call for more cops, more detectives. We also need to look at each other: how can you work more efficiently, how can you work with better modern methods, and how can we involve other parties, such as private parties, with regularity in order to advance detection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u91	Just a brief reaction. I hope the Minister did not suggest that the only thing I called for was that there should be more capacity, because I have also made many other proposals. Conversely, I do not think the Minister should say: this is the amount we have set, then that it is and we should get the rest out of more efficiency and other proposals. I challenge the Minister not to stop thinking and to look at the Spring note to see how much extra money can be added for security. I am prepared to look with the Minister at what else is needed, as I have made many proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u92	You have already heard me say that I like to turn what Mr Hiddema calls dreams into deeds and that it is best to do so through a good thinking process. I'm in favour of that, of course. In the five months I have been in contact with you as a Chamber and in debate, we have always been able to make progress through the debate and the discussion on what is needed. A lot of money is made available by this cabinet, extra money. Let me mention again: EUR 267 million a year in structural terms for the expansion of the police, for more and better equipment for the police and more modern, newer detection methods. In addition, we have the 10 million structuralally and at least the 100 million this year to tackle undermining. In addition, I can also talk about the extra money in the field of cybercrime. That is what we have, and that is what we have to work with now to turn dreaming into action through thinking. Mrs Helder and Mrs Van Toorenburg have asked questions about the capacity of the investigation in Amsterdam. On 21 February, I answered written questions from Mrs Kuik about the report that the Amsterdam police did not come to track down major drug lords. At that time, I indicated that the use of the police, as I have just said, is determined by local authority and must be assessed there. It is true that the regional police division devotes most of its capacity to resolving and preventing liquidation cases and a large part to radicalisation and terrorism investigations. That means I didn't just say that other things aren't going to get picked up. On the other hand, in recent years, a lot of files have been completed with suspected arrests, so it hasn't been for nothing. And yes, I also say to Mrs Van Toorenburg, there have been very clear successes here. Then I'll come up anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u93	How far along are you, by the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u94	I'm almost done. I just wanted to say a few words about the top 600 approach to prevention. I would like to draw attention to this prevention. I know your room knows that, but it can't be said enough. Amsterdam has for years been aware of the approach taken by the summit 600, which is precisely aimed at the target group of young people who are at risk of becoming involved in serious crime or who may already be in contact with it and who are at risk of sinking into it. In addition, Amsterdam has an approach to criminal families, based on a system approach of an entire family. Such an approach is also applied in other cities. I've been to a number of work visits. For example, in a city like Amersfoort, they also work with it. This requires a long-term approach by many partners. I said in my introduction that if we really want to do this right, we really need to focus on it for the long term. It's a social problem. I endorse that in Mrs Buitenweg's speech, and that was also concluded in the future agenda undermining last year. One of the lines of action of this future agenda is to remove this social ground for organised undermining crime. Of course that affects my domain, but it also affects other domains such as SZW and OCW. However, that is indeed, as I would like to emphasise, one of the things that we are going to take up. I just want to say one more thing. Ms Helder pointed to the event in Amsterdam in relation to Dr Ferwerda's reaction that the Moroccans of the street terror in Amsterdam have become organized criminals and liquidation bombers. I recognize in itself that a number of young people who have been in innocent street terror over the past few years have become even more innocent, even in wrong criminal street terror, but at least less serious what they are doing now have become top criminals. There we also see the importance of prevention and early intervention. This requires projects such as Top 600 approach. That approach is indeed proven to be effective and should, as far as I am concerned, lead to economies of scale and broadening to other cities. Moreover, I would like to make it quite clear that I do not agree with the conclusion that these are young people of one particular origin or something like that. Let me make no mistake about that. But the fact is that you can see that a number of people who were in a lower level of crime fifteen or twenty years ago are now top criminals. I think I'm at the end of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u95	Yes. Then there is Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Minister outlines what is already happening about preventive measures. I agree with him that this is a very important part, but the question was actually whether the Minister has had contact with Amsterdam, whether he knows whether this preventive approach is going well at the moment and whether he can possibly help there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u97	Indeed, during working visits in Amsterdam, I also talked about the Top 600 approach. This has shown to me that there are a lot of good effects in themselves. There are two effects, namely, on the one hand, the complete mapping of that Top 600 and all the networks that are or are going out there and, on the other hand, the approach to getting the people out of that Top 600 as much as possible. But I think that this horrible liquidation last week shows that we are not yet there, not even in the area of preventive measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u98	I conclude from this that at least the Top 600 approach seems to be going well. That's good. I would like to call on the Minister to keep his finger on the pulse in the coming months and perhaps in the coming years, and to continue to check whether this approach is successful and whether there are sufficient opportunities to continue it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u99	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u100	Thank you, Madam President. I had one more question that hadn't been answered and that was about the investigation. There will now be an international comparative investigation into key witness schemes. My question was whether it included how other countries deal with the security and protection of key witnesses and their families.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u101	The Minister knows exactly what question it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u102	Yes. I'll have to take a look. I'd have seen that. I thought it might be included in that investigation. Yes! That's part of the investigation, I'm sure of it now. Yeah, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u103	I also missed an answer and I hope for the same response. That was about the risk assessment for the environment. My question to the Minister was whether there should not be a second test or weighing moment of what risks a deal entails and whether the environment could be properly secured. Is it okay if a second person looks at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u104	That is, of course, the risk analysis I mentioned earlier from the College of PGs. I have also explained some of this. In that respect, I assumed that I had included your question in the answer. But just to be clear, this is done in an extremely careful way. I definitely think that... Well, I'll come up with that letter that I'll come back to. Well, I guess I'll say something about this, too. Actually, I think that's much better. Then we'll do it more structuredly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u106	I'm at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u107	Yes, thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds per group, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying and for the commitments. Among other things, the promise that he will look at arms control. I'd like to see the letter. Mrs Helder's suggestion is very relevant. I hope to see them in that too. What the Minister says about Rotterdam is a bit reassuring, but not very much. That is why I intend to say that Mr Rutte wants to take part in this, but perhaps other colleagues would like to join us in visiting the Port table in Rotterdam and having an intensive conversation with customs. So far, they've been calling our doorbells every time, because they've been worried sick. I'm telling you, I haven't heard from them in a while, so maybe they feel like they're getting it under control. That's what I like to hear. I'd like to be at that Haven table sometime. As far as detectives are concerned, that too is being prosecuted, as far as capacity is concerned. I am indeed very curious to see what we are going to see of that in the end. Also with regard to the key witness scheme. We hear a lot that you might have to offer more to key witnesses, but I do have great hesitation in that too. What is particularly important to me is that people should be protected for as long as they consider it necessary. I would like to hear that promise from the Minister today: that if someone needs protection, which takes as long as they themselves think it should last.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u109	Thank you. Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. For the sake of time, I do not go into that further. My pain points are evident from the motions I'm about to file immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the liquidation violence, i.e. the violence with (automatic) firearms, is increasing in size and in harshness and innocent citizens are no longer sure of their lives because of bullets flying around;]] [[noting that there are not only innocent victims, but that the horrific term "misdemeanor" has now been introduced by this brutal violence;]] [[noting that this brutal violence is also intended to deter potential (roon) witnesses from making statements to the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Considers that this should end and that in any case more agents and detectives are needed in order to increase the chances of being caught, to carry out large-scale investigations and to be (by) subject to gun ownership;]] [[calls on the government to allocate more money to the police than the 267 million euro promised so far,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-195]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mr. Chairman. I took an old motion off the stable. Unfortunately, with the knowledge of today, it is still relevant. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unacceptable that criminal youth gangs or gangs continue to terrorize the Dutch streets;]] [[whereas these street terrorists seriously spoil Dutch society and confront many citizens with crime or repeated crime;]] [[Considering that the Evaluation approach to criminal youth groups (Van Montfoort/Office Alpha, January 2013, page 14) shows that half of the groups consist largely or entirely of members of Moroccan-Dutch origin;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the case of adult criminals, they are denaturalised after conviction and at the end of the sentence and returned to the country of remaining nationality, and in the case of minor criminals, they are denaturalised after conviction and termination of the sentence and are returned to the country of remaining nationality, together with their parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-196]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u112	Mr. Chairman. I have already tabled a motion this morning to the VAO on the police on increasing capacity, also in relation to the unit guarding and securing. I was going to table a motion on the robustness and independence of that system. How do you ensure that they can continue to provide tailor-made services and not end up in a conflict of interests? But the Minister has promised a clear letter on this matter. I'd like to hear another term. When can we expect that letter? That is when we are going to talk more specifically about the system of witness protection versus monitoring and securing the unity and its independence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u113	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u114	We have a major problem with organised crime and extreme violence. And no, we didn't solve that tonight. But we have discussed a number of important issues, such as the fact that it is too easy to get very dangerous weapons, and the information position and capacity of the detectives. In any event, my group will support the motion that has been tabled on this subject, because we do see that, although we are committed to the detection and prosecution of these liquidations, other offences remain on the table. We just know that. We'll get that from the detectives in the office. The issue of protection is a very important one. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the Government to fill in vacant vacancies as soon as possible with the Office for Security and Security and to inform the Chamber of its progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-197]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u115	Finally, I come to the dilemma of deals with key witnesses. I agree with the Minister when he says that key witness statements are very important for tracking down criminals. So I agree. But this is not just a matter of criminal procedure. The safety of witnesses and close relatives must also weigh very heavily. We must prevent innocent victims at all costs. That's a hell of a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u116	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Speaking time is 1 minute 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u117	Now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u118	Especially for Mrs Buitenweg. The Minister keeps talking very dreamy. He's flashed completely in trance along my beautiful speech. He didn't respond with a single word to the offer I made him. I'll wake him up. Can it be tolerated by the Minister if he recognizes the possibility that in the winding-up wave that has taken place, weapons that may have been removed from the circuit by my rake-and-drag method through the rusting files have been used? Is that thought to be tolerated and does he think that thought makes sense? What's he gonna do with the lesson I can teach him? Go check those files with a rake; just check them for gun possession, nothing else. There's no need to spend so much manpower on that, because 12% of the detectives are sick. There are a lot of them, who probably want to work a bit carefully and to whom you can say: Piet, come on, all you have to do is look for a weapon! And that Piet says, "Oh, I'll be fine." Just try it! Do something! You're always gonna have to talk about pennies and procedures here. Just deal with it and avoid liquidations. That's what we're talking about here, isn't it? There are plenty of possibilities. Get those files off the shelf and sniff them with an weapons expert. That's it. That's it. That's it. I have heard the Minister say 'if I haven't heard correctly, then I am mistaken that there have been 69 targeted weapons investigations.' Is that right? I can't believe I heard that right. Then you're from another planet. In Amsterdam, it's full of weapons. For every search or when a house is emptied: weapons were used...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u120	Every family has one of these. The minister has been to North Rhine-Westphalia. Did they also tell the Minister that they are not charmed by legal aid applications to the Netherlands, because we do nothing with them? It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u121	Thank you. Mr Grothuizen waives his second term. Then I go to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive reply. I am pleased that we are holding this debate and welcome a number of commitments, such as the letter on the capacity of the services to protect the key witnesses. I believe that when deciding whether to protect or not, it is crucial that there is a proper analysis of the threat. I do not know whether it is part of the letter in which the analysis is made and whether it is always well taken into account by other people in the weighing or that protection is necessary. I am also looking forward to the comparison with other European countries. I'm curious about that. Two short other points: the Minister said that he would consult with his colleagues to see how to prevent young people from slipping or, if they have already slipped slightly, how to get a good approach to getting back on the road. I think that is very important. Tomorrow we're gonna talk about that extensively, but you can see that there's something really missing. Even if the judge has ruled that someone needs certain help, that help is not always available at the municipality or there are long waiting lists. I really do not think that is acceptable. I'm gonna close with the weapons approach. I look forward to it. Of course, it always sounds a bit easy: there is coordination, and we now have a European initiative. But I understand very well that the Minister says: I think it is very important. I think that in a few years' time, or perhaps already at the next meeting in a year's time, we will be able to assess whether this European approach has actually had an effect. I really hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u123	Thank you. Can the Minister respond immediately? We'll wait two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u124	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u125	Madam President. I would like to begin by saying that I very much appreciate the way in which this debate is being held with your Chamber today. I believe that this shows that the Chamber and the Cabinet take this issue very seriously and also see it as a social issue on which we will undoubtedly have different views on a number of points, but in general they all think that the approach to this kind of appalling crime, which is getting closer and closer to the citizen, should be taken hard. I should like to begin by addressing a few of the questions that have been raised. Then I'll deal with the motions. I will do so quickly, Madam President, in one minute 20 per question. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked for a commitment that people will be protected for as long as they feel they need. Threat and risk are leading in establishing the necessary security measures. Each protection pathway is of course tailor-made, but the starting point is that the system determines, on the basis of a thorough analysis of threat and risk, what measures are needed and how long. Of course, the person to be protected also has a very important input. I would also like to inform Mrs Van Toorenburg immediately through you that the letter on the Arms and Ammunitions Act and the possibility of extending that method to search and search comes at least before the summer. I really want to look very closely at this, and perhaps also see how it is going in other countries and what the possibilities are. Then I come to Mrs Helder's question. She asked: should something be arranged à la preventive search or search preventively? Article 51 (3) of the Arms and Ammunition Act already states that the Public Prosecutor may order a so-called security risk area and that the power to search means of transport may be exercised against everyone. Then I treated it. Mrs. Kuik had a question about the deadline. I would also like to assure you that my letter on the system will be monitored and secured before the summer, with all the aspects involved. By "before the summer," I mean before June 21st. That would even allow us to discuss this before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u126	I would very much appreciate it if it was a little earlier, because I would like it if the Chamber still had the opportunity to come back to that. June 21st is getting a little tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u127	We're gonna go crazy: I'm gonna make sure that you have that letter by 31 May at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u128	I'm very happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u129	I see now that I'm a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u130	Yes, the officials are less...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u131	There's a little vibrating asphalt in the bin. Mr Hiddema mentioned his rake-and-drag method. It is difficult to imagine that investigations with specific detection indications on heavy weapons will end up on the shelf. I don't see any added value in that. I also enjoy speaking with each other in metaphors, but Mr Hiddema should not dwell on that. I've pointed out there's a special weapons officer. I also have a large arsenal that is not a pun of measures, the millions and the hundreds of millions that we are really going to use as intensification. I think that is sufficient to indicate that real action is being taken in this area too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u132	Thank you, Minister, for this answer. I didn't ask for money, nor did I ask for flexible procedures. I asked you whether you would like to instruct your services that no more files, whether they come from international legal aid applications or simply put them aside, will land on the shelf before it is assessed on its weapons relevance. Can you promise me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u133	No. I'm not gonna promise that. You also mentioned that every Amsterdam family would have weapons behind the front door. I live in Amsterdam. I really must tell you that I find that an unjust accusation. The only weapon I might have in the house is a dishwasher brush. We have an OM that is very high quality, that is highly educated and where there are people who are very good at judging and specializing in it. And then I have a special weapons officer, as I call it. Those are the people who have to judge it. They will, of course, be accountable to the College. I'm not gonna ride those people in the wheels by coming up with the instructions that they have to look behind every front door, see if they have an old couple or an automatic weapon. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u134	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u135	I do not understand how the Minister can reach that conclusion. It's not about every innocent person who hasn't got a single file on him. I'm not asking you to dissect the Grapperhaus file on weapons-relevant crimes, or do I know anything? But if a case comes in as a felony and deliberately puts that case aside, then I want you to do so only after proper control, after it has certainly been assessed on weapons relevance, and then it is dealt with accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u136	A case that comes in as a crime, especially a case that comes in as a serious crime, is judged professionally by the case officer on all the indications in that case. I would like to say again that this is a high-quality organisation, which has an officer in arms, who is specifically focused on that element of arms. I want to go to... I don't know how many more are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u137	I suggest you proceed with the assessment of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u138	Yes, the motions. In the first motion by Mrs Helder, on item No. 195, the government is being asked to make more money. No. I have already explained a number of times that the 267 million will lead to a significant increase in human capacity in the police force, including the capacity of the police, as well as a substantial increase in resources. I also referred to the improvement of detection. That's what we're gonna do now. Then we should not start saying in advance: let us add more money. That's not a good way to operate. I therefore advise against this motion. The second motion by Mrs Helder, on item No. 196 is about the denaturalisation and return to the country of the remaining nationality of adult criminals of dual nationality. At least, from the considerations I understand that these are only Moroccan-Dutch people. However, the law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship requires participation in terrorist activities. That's not what we're talking about here. That law has been passed by this Parliament, I believe, including the PVV. So you knew you were asking for an unstoppable familiar road. Finally, I have the motion in part No. 197 by Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Kuik. I want to finish beautifully and cooperatively, so I'm gonna leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. It concerns open vacancies and informing the Chamber of progress. I would like to understand the motion in such a way that the information on progress will be included in the letter on the system which I will send by 31 May. Madam President, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u139	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-11.u140	I thank the Minister. I thank the Members of Parliament. I thank the people in the public gallery. By the way, we'll be voting on the motions next week. I would also, of course, like to thank the stenography service, the messengers, the officials and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet.
