ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Electricity Act 1998 and to the Gas Act (energy transition progress), document No. 34627. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy and, of course, the Members of Parliament and, above all, the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I read your e-mail and I think the height of the chair is good now. Thank you for the instructions. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union stands for the care of our creation. We do not want to exhaust the creation, but we want to pass it on to our children and our grandchildren. That means it has to be radically different, our way of living, working, recreating and transport. Climate change disrupts ecosystems and reaps failure. Earth Overshoot Day, the day when people have used the wealth of the earth that the earth can produce in a year, falls a little earlier each year. I believe that last year, 2017, was already on 2 August. This means that we live on the ecological puff and the earth can hardly recover from it. I was there with other MPs in Paris when the climate agreement was negotiated there. The urgency is incredibly great. Mr. Chairman. The government agreement agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 49% by 2030. We want to get rid of oil, gas and coal as quickly as possible and make ample space for clean, decentralised energy supply. But it can't just happen. We need a change in our thinking and our actions, but certainly also in our regulations. That is why the subject we are discussing today is so important. It's about our electricity usage, heating our homes and our way of dealing with energy. The picture of a power plant selling electricity and gas to a household is increasingly outdated. People become members of an energy cooperative instead of a customer at an energy company. Houses and offices will no longer be energy slurpers, but are energy-neutral and even energy-supplying. This also changes the energy grid. There we no longer see the one-way traffic of the past decades, but a trading place of electricity. Options for sustainability must be reflected in the choices for the energy network. We will indeed need grid congestion, but we can also be smarter in balancing the grid, for example by stimulating energy storage if there is an oversupply, including through flexible electricity tariffs. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the FAT Act. FAT stands for "progress in energy transition," but I am concerned about speeding up our energy transition. I want to walk through some of the law issues, and I'll start with Groningen. Last week we were also in this Chamber and had a debate about the severe earthquake at Zeerijp. The Groningers are tired of the cracks in the walls, the insecurity and the uncertainty. We must therefore reduce the dependence on Groningen gas as quickly as possible. My group is therefore in favour of the Jetten and others amendment. that will finally remove the obligation to connect to natural gas. I hope that this amendment will come into force as soon as possible. It cannot be explained that new buildings are still connected to the gas grid while Groningen cracks and trembles and long-term sustainable alternatives are available. The amendment also gives an important role to municipalities to opt for the most sustainable solution at local and regional level, such as the heat grid or electrification. Mr. Chairman. I got an e-mail about a new apartment complex to be built. That was also in the province of Groningen. The intention was to build gas-free and provide the building with heat-cold storage and heat pumps. However, the developer suddenly opted for a gas connection, for technical and legal reasons. But in the end, through local politics, residents managed to build gas-free. So it's possible if we want to. From now on, the principle of "no, unless" must apply. The amendment allows for a gas connection under strict conditions. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this exception is used as minimally as possible and really only applied in exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u4	It is best to make this assessment at local and regional level. This also includes the discussion about the difference in the cost of gas connections and, for example, a connection to the heat grid. We will continue this discussion in the light of the Heat Act. Because it cannot be that a gas connection is chosen purely for cost reasons. When it comes to social costs and benefits, it will also have to be taken into account that the climate issue is urgent and that people in Groningen want to be able to live and live safely. How does the Minister see the role of network operators and municipalities in the reflection and co-decision on the interconnection of renewable energy, heat networks and residential areas, both new and existing housing? Think of the spatial integration of heat networks where a link has to be made between industry, greenhouse horticulture and residential areas. Is the exhaustive list of tasks in Article 17c not too much a barrier to innovation and cooperation with municipalities, provinces and water authorities? I'd like a response. In the case of existing dwellings, making natural gas independent entails high costs for homeowners. We've talked about that before. I got an e-mail saying that a property owner had to pay €687, because the house became zero on the meter. I understand that network operators face additional costs. Still, it doesn't feel right. Can the Minister respond to this? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, not everyone is aware of the urgency of getting rid of the gas. Recently I spoke to someone who really didn't know he was going crazy on his thermostat has a direct influence on the level of gas extraction in Groningen. All the more reason to make people aware of the importance of the heat transition. How's the Minister gonna do that? The note on the report only briefly mentions it. The Chamber has already discussed a plan of action for phasing out the gas boiler. Shouldn't we also put a dot on the near horizon for gas burners and gas burners? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. This bill gives a lot of space to experiment. How does the Minister intend to ensure that the experiments can also start quickly? Much depends on the regulation and the framework in the general measure of governance. The risk is that the experiments will end in bureaucracy or can only start late. How's the secretary gonna prevent that? We also attach great importance to the affordability of the energy grid. For this, it is necessary to balance the network in new ways, such as with flexible rates and district batteries. How will the Minister, together with network operators, in the years to come, prevent us from making unnecessary grids more cumbersome because of the lack of flexibility in the legislation? Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the letter of amendment on the secondary activities of network companies. It is good that the Minister applies a number of principles and that the rules of the game have been properly defined. The network companies have a crucial role to play in the energy transition and have indispensable knowledge and expertise. One of the minister's principles is that activities that can be carried out by the private sector should be left to the market. I agree with that principle, but as far as I am concerned, the Minister is also right to say that network companies can facilitate the market as long as private parties do not take this or do not take it up sufficiently. At the same time, it is not intended to compete unfairly with market players. Through the AMvB, the experiments and the temporary tasks of the system operators can be clarified. Mr. Chairman. I do notice that there are still a lot of questions in practice. For example, grid operators have a good understanding of the data of the power grid, including from the task of balancing the grid. But can network operators provide data services to consumers or governments without improper competition? The coalition agreement states the importance of an optimal mix of energy saving, sustainable heat and sustainable generation. How can network operators contribute to this on the basis of the list of tasks set out in Article 17c? Does the Minister agree with me that the grid operators are crucial to this optimal mix? In the long term, gas networks can also be used for sustainable gases such as hydrogen. Are experiments foreseen with that? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of building-related financing. We see great opportunities for this, because it also gives homeowners without financial space the chance to make them more sustainable. The financing is linked to the home, which means that sustainability can be financed for a long time by saving energy costs. For building-related funding, there is an important role for network operators to facilitate the process. They should monitor the process and possibly also assess the impact on the network. The task definition in the law is too tight to carry out an experiment with building-related funding, as network operators have to limit their tasks to the infrastructure. At the same time, this legislative proposal is an excellent opportunity, given that experimental space is being given, and rules can be established through the AMvB. It is important to start experiments quickly for building-related funding. Can the Minister confirm that the law and the AMvB give sufficient room for an experiment with this? Fortunately, in the coalition agreement, attention is also paid to building-related financing. Last year I and Mrs Kröger voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling for a speedy implementation of pilot projects. My question to the Minister is: when can the pilot projects be launched, including the experimental space required from this bill? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a subject that I have already talked about a lot. Oh, I see there's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u5	Does the Christian Union share the view with the CDA that this experimental space could be used first in the province of Groningen, because that is precisely where the problems are so great? I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u6	As far as I'm concerned, we have to do one thing and not leave the other. We have a big task in Groningen. In my opinion, the coalition agreement also states that Groningen must have the leading position when it comes to the energy transition, and can lead the rest of the Netherlands. So let's look at the possibilities there. That does not alter the fact that there is also a problem in other places. I know several projects, in my opinion also in the province of Gelderland, in which experiments are already being carried out with building-related funding. As far as I am concerned, this must also have a way through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u7	I am pleased that the Christian Union very much stresses that the bill should have been called "accelerating energy transition." The Christian Union also talked about the exhaustive list, and came up with that example and the question whether it could also be a data service. Now the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has tabled an amendment to make that exhaustive list even more flexible. I'm sure you'd like to know what the Minister thinks about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u8	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u9	... but is the Christian Union open to enlargement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u10	To be honest, I have not yet been able to look at the amendment. I'm definitely gonna do that in the course of this day. Indeed, I am very curious about the Minister's response. What is very important for my group is that there should be clarity. I spoke to a number of people yesterday, including from the network operators. I have heard that there is clarity with the new letter of amendment. I am pleased with this because I would very much like to see an end to the discussions between market players and network companies, which Mr Van der Lee may have also taken note of. Together they have all the expertise in their hands; now we just have to do it together. I find the second letter of amendment really enlightening in relation to the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming up on the wiring of the power lines. The Christian Union considers it important that high-voltage lines are built underground as much as possible. In international scientific research there is evidence of an increased risk of leukaemia in children living under long-term high voltage lines. We don't know how it works, but we do see a causal link. Although this research is still ongoing, it is understandable that there is also social unrest about this. In new situations, the construction of high-voltage lines already takes account of a new type of towers with less radiation and as many cables as possible. But that is much more difficult for existing situations. People need to be bought out or wired. It's often expensive. The cable operation is expected to last 15 years for 53 municipalities which still have high-voltage cables above their territory. The Minister intends to make local authorities pay a 25% contribution to the underground construction of these high-voltage networks. The percentage for municipalities up to 30,000 inhabitants is 20%. The contribution per kilometer is limited to nearly 1 million. It is still unclear which part will be financed by the province and which part will be financed by the municipality. Have the talks between the minister, the provinces and the municipalities produced any results? The Christian Union also considers it important that the financial threshold for municipalities should not become too high, otherwise smaller municipalities will certainly have to refrain from replacing the high-voltage cables for financial reasons. But I'm also looking at a bigger place, like Veenendaal. Nowhere in the country there are so many homes in the vicinity of high voltage cables; I think there are about 725. The Minister is, of course, very welcome to consider the situation for himself. Some masts even stand in people's backyards. It's a five-kilometer trail. So you're talking about a $5 million contribution. The province is not participating and I have not yet seen the city of Utrecht, for which the energy is intended. The case-Veenendaal illustrates the sometimes disproportionate use of municipalities. Does the Minister agree with me? I ask the Minister to make sure that the regulation really moves things. I would like to see this minister start the wiring and make the scheme a success, but this will require more than is currently included in the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. During the vote on the STROOM Act, my motion was adopted asking for research into alternatives to the buy-out of homes near high-voltage cables. Last year, this alternative investigation was completed. This showed that for tracés in four municipalities the alternatives to buy-out are cost-efficient and further research was initiated. Can the Minister tell us more about this? Mr. Chairman. The grey stream part of the Dutch electricity label is currently not transparent and does not comply with international advice. Green electricity requires guarantees of origin and precise proof of the source from which the electricity comes, but the remaining grey electricity is not subject to this obligation. It is therefore impossible for consumers to trace whether the electricity comes from a coal power plant, a gas power plant or a nuclear power plant. We also know about the discussion about shuffle flow: grey current in the Netherlands is "green crops" by purchasing foreign guarantees of origin. The Council of European Energy Regulators, of which the ACM is a member, recommends 100% transparency for the electricity market. Both the grey and the green parts will then be fully certified, so that both of the origins are clear. This creates a level playing field for producers of green and grey electricity and transparency for consumers, because why would we require a certificate from green electricity but not from grey electricity? In Austria and Switzerland, 100% transparency in the electricity market has also led to an increase in the share of green electricity. I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u13	First, finish this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u14	Okay, I'll finish the block. On a voluntary basis, it is already possible to certify grey current at CertiQ. Implementation will not therefore be the problem. A number of companies have already agreed to this on a voluntary basis. Minister Kamp wanted to wait earlier for the introduction of full disclosure in Europe, but my group sees no reason to wait for a transparent electricity market for consumers. The Netherlands can also take a leading position in Europe and set up a method for other countries. I therefore have an amendment in mind to organise this legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u15	I fully agree with this plea from the Christian Union. I think that is a fantastic step forward in bringing transparency into that market, but I am curious whether the Christian Union believes that this should also be done in the gas market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u16	I need to think about that. I'm surprised at the question. I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u17	This is a point on which I have announced in the past, in a previous legislative procedure, an initiative legislative proposal. I am more or less stranded halfway through because of the difficulties that Mrs Dik-Faber also referred to. So perhaps the Minister would like to shed his light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u18	It'll be your turn later. Then you can ask the Minister. Mrs. Dik-Faber, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u19	My group generally attaches great importance to transparency. This discussion will, of course, soon also take place when we talk about the Heat Act and the heat grids that are being built. Even if your home is supplied with heat via a heat grid, it must be clear that that is not heat from fossil sources. There too, therefore, transparency is very important. So let's see how we can take steps in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u21	The previous study commissioned by the Ministry shows that a large majority of consumers, over 80%, have never seen the electricity label before, while 70% of the participants in the study find the electricity label informative. Will the Minister encourage energy suppliers to become more transparent and actively inform consumers about the electricity label? My last topic is cross-participants. The bill allows TenneT and Gasunie to cross-participate with other European system operators. The Minister says that this can promote cross-border cooperation. He also wants to ensure that public interests remain well protected, for example by first submitting a proposal for cross participation to the Chamber. At present, 100% of the shares of the national network are still held by the State. And that's not without reason. We want the net to be in and remain in public hands, because of the important importance for our energy supply. The first question we need to ask ourselves is: why is cross participation in the public interest? And why do other forms of strategic cooperation fail? Why is an exchange of shares necessary in order to work well together? Why do we want public money to be leaked abroad through cross participation? You can see that the Christian Union simply still has a lot of questions. We do not yet have a convincing answer to that. We wonder whether we should allow some of the control over essential public infrastructure to come in foreign or even private hands. An exchange of shares is not a condition and certainly not a guarantee of good cooperation between system operators. I would very much like to hear the Minister's answer on my questions. Finally. The VET Act is an important step towards clean energy. Let it indeed be the Act "accelerating energy transition." But there are still a lot of steps to be taken. That requires perseverance, courage and courage, which I wish the Minister and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u22	I have one more question for Mrs Dik-Faber on cross-financing. Is the Christian Union open to amendment on this point if it is not convinced by the Minister's arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u23	First let's give the Minister a chance to answer the questions. We just started the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u24	I shall return to the amendment tabled by the coalition parties. Houses can no longer be connected to the gas. I have heard Mrs Dik-Faber correctly: she creates a direct relationship between house removal and lowering gas extraction in Groningen. Well, let me be clear. Of course we have to get rid of the Groningen gas, but let us be honest, because households are small consumers. In Groningen, if you want to reduce gas extraction by 1 billion cubic metres, that corresponds to almost half a million households who would then have to get rid of the gas. That's a big deal. So how realistic is it then to take those small consumers, the households, on that? But my real question is: is Mrs Dik-Faber prepared to allow systems that are in need of replacement to operate on high-caloric gas? Then we can indeed get rid of the Groningen gas, but then we make systems suitable to also operate on high-caloric gas. Is she willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u25	In recent years, I have spoken to many aldermen in the country who have run into the obligation to connect. They said: we want to build a new neighbourhood and not connect it to the gas, but the legislation is not helping. This amendment by the four coalition parties gives these aldermen and ultimately also the energy transition and the people in Groningen the necessary support. So I'm very happy about it. It is indeed much more complex for the existing situation. We have talked here before about the proposal of the CDA and D66 to look at hybrid systems, for example. There are other ways to heat your home sustainably. In two weeks, I believe the Heat Act will be on the agenda. We're gonna talk a lot about that. But it's not simple. Now high-caloric gas is mentioned as an option. I don't know if that should be the system for the future. I can imagine that there are places in the Netherlands, including in business, where high-caloric gas can certainly be a step or perhaps an intermediate step. But let us not say from The Hague that it must always and everywhere with high-caloric gas. Let's look at what is needed and what is the smartest solution per situation, per municipality and per company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u26	Let us ensure that the discussions do not get mixed up. The fact that gas extraction in Groningen needs to be reduced or stopped is, of course, a very different discussion than that which the whole country should have to get rid of the gas. So if the parties say that the country has to get rid of the gas and that they reject alternatives such as high-caloric gas because they want to move towards hybrid, sustainable systems, then those parties show that in reality they are not really about the Groningers, but about their own story: we have to get rid of the gas, because gas is bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u27	I cast this far from me. In my opinion, there is widespread concern about the situation in Groningen and we must do everything we can to reduce gas extraction. This indeed requires an energy transition. This transition is also needed to combat climate change. Let's face it, our country is now dependent on oil sheiks and gas barons. I don't think this is very appealing to the PVV. So I invite you to join the energy transition as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal before us has been above the market for years. It's meant to solve bottlenecks in the energy transition, but does it? The impression is a bit that this is a collecting law with some loose points. The coherence and the big story are still a bit missing. It is time for the new Cabinet to come up with an overarching plan with this new Minister of Climate and Energy. The announced climate and energy law should provide this. At that point in time, is the legal amendment we're dealing with old paper? The share of renewable energy is not going to increase dramatically as a result of the present proposal. How is it prevented that we always do something small, but do not do what is necessary to actually shape the energy transition on a large scale? Where's the delta plan? Groningen makes it painfully clear that we need to get rid of the gas and that the previous Rutte governments have wasted far too much time. Now is the time for action. It is deeply sad that there is still no phasing out plan to complete the gas extraction in Groningen. It is very good that parties are aware that we no longer need to connect new buildings to gas or even Groningen gas. Mrs Van Tongeren has made a fine law for that, which we are going to discuss this afternoon. In this debate, the coalition parties seem to want to catch up with her soon. That's politics. But it takes a lot more than that. The number of existing buildings being closed is still far too low. A poll by Maurice de Hond shows that only 8% of the Dutch want gas extraction in Groningen to remain at the current level. That's great: the Netherlands is behind Groningen. But how are we going to help the people who want to make their home more sustainable or even get rid of the gas? For many people that is now impossible or too expensive or they do not find the right information. Physical closure of the gas still often costs a lot of money. Will the Minister investigate the possibilities of making this free? We are considering a motion on this point. If you want to get information, you can now visit the website energybesparpendoenu.nl. There is a lot of information on subsidies and so on, but that is far from enough for a lot of people. When we started connecting to the Groningen gas, there was a very big government campaign. House by house was folded. There was information all the time. Shouldn't that happen again? Shouldn't we call home and ask people how we can help to make it more sustainable as soon as possible? "Can you afford it?" "What can we do for you?" "How can we make it affordable for you?" It's nice that that website is there, but we're actually asking for more. We're asking for a big campaign. We would also like to see people on the site not only get information, because that is still hard for a lot of people to understand, but also simply click on a button with: I want to get rid of the gas, help me. Or simply the button: I want to make it more sustainable, help me. Then people are directly helped to find a way in that forest, preferably as affordable as possible. For a lot of people, this is now very difficult. I also think that tenants from social housing should be able to visit such sites. Now they're only aimed at homeowners. Mrs Dik-Faber already referred to it: we can ensure that many more people have a more sustainable and therefore better home when we finally start working on building-related funding. What about the roadmap towards building-related financing? This could draw a lot of people who couldn't afford it otherwise. Is there enough experimental space within this law? How does the Minister see that? We ask quite a lot of households and the PVV already referred to them but do we also ask the same from companies in the Netherlands and abroad? Two months after the Council of State destroyed the Groningen gas decision, after Groningers had to fight for it himself in court two months later, the Minister wrote a letter to 200 large consumers. Nice letter, beautiful, but too bad it took a disaster. The reaction of the large consumers is indicative. They feel intimidated, according to the umbrella organisation for large consumers, VEMW. What snowflakes. The Dutch understand: 8% want only the current gas extraction. But companies, including the dome of large consumers, the NAM and Shell, still don't understand it. Time to increase democratic control, as far as I'm concerned. Then I come to the point that Mrs Dik-Faber mentioned, namely the role of network operators. Public organisations such as grid operators are given more opportunities in this law. We believe that this is a good development, as long as any profit is used public again. After all, it is in the public interest of all of us that we are now going to move forward. However, the number of tasks that the public can experiment with is very limited. The task list, Article 17c, is specific and exhaustive and can only be amended by a lengthy legislative amendment procedure. This is unnecessarily obstructive and time-consuming, while pace is really needed. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then I come to the 380kV line. That is a political term for the high-voltage cables. In this law more work is done on the underground construction of high-voltage cables, but in Groningen a 380kV line is now built above ground, through a beautiful cultural landscape. Many of its opponents have now announced that they will go to the Council of State. So in this law, we want to settle it, but the government thinks it's still too expensive for Groningen. I'd like a response from the Minister. We are really calling on the Minister to discuss alternatives with the relevant directors and the organisations concerned, because this is very harsh. You're going to settle it in a law, but Groningen, where they've already suffered so much from energy, still gets such an above-ground high-voltage cable through a beautiful landscape. I'm almost done. With this law there is also the so-called cross-participant. This is more or less a loose end, but it opens the door to the European Energy Union. It will be possible to exchange shares in national network managers, now 100% owned by the Dutch State. Why is this door created? Why is this out of your hands? This can also be arranged through cooperation between Member States, I ask the Minister. I'd like a response. For us, this is a reason to ask for each article to vote on this law. I'm a little quick on that. Mr. Chairman. One last, final call. This law was once intended to introduce market forces into energy supply. Everywhere around us people turn that back, because it is important that residents also have control and can also determine the desires and the burdens. We believe that we really need to democratize in the energy transition, so that the lusts and burdens are distributed more fairly and people can take part in decisions. That's gonna speed it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you. As far as voting per article is concerned, this can be requested by means of the rules of procedure. Of course it goes by majority. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. Our generation is the first to feel the effects of climate change and the last generation to do anything about it. Those were wise words from President Obama at the time. His words are more up-to-date than ever and are also above this debate. Chamber, cabinet, society and business should all contribute to reducing the use of fossil fuels in the coming years. Today it is mainly about natural gas and about significantly reducing its use. A huge task that must be done as soon as possible. It is in the interests of the climate and it is in the interests of Groningen that we become gas-free as a country as soon as possible. The Minister knows that, too. Does the amendment to the Gas Act that we are discussing today contribute sufficiently to this? Does this give enough space to make our homes and other buildings gas-free? The aim of the legislative amendment is to remove existing barriers to the energy transition and to make legislation future-proof. That is what it says in the explanatory statement and, of course, the Party for Animals is very much in agreement with it. But what is future-proof? 2019, next year, the future is only 2050 as well. Do we call a law future-proof if it tightens up the current situation a little bit with the danger that in a few years' time we will have to tighten up the law? Or should we take care of it right away for a longer period of time? We are now debating gas consumption with the Minister for the third time in a short time, in barely a week and a half. We see a minister who is serious when it comes to reducing gas consumption, with which I congratulate him. This week, 200 of the largest energy consumers, gas consumers in industry, received a letter from the Minister saying that the switch to alternatives to Groningen gas is inevitable. 2022 was mentioned as a deadline, writes the Minister, at least that's what I read the newspaper. In last Tuesday's debate on gas extraction, the Minister announced that letter, but we were not informed as a Chamber. The Party for Animals welcomes those letters and welcomes the request to the business community. However, I ask the Minister if those letters are public. If so, can they be seen? Or can the Minister, in a letter to the Chamber, indicate exactly what he is asking the companies to do? Because I find it interesting to know. Then back to the Energy Transition Progress Act, the subject of today's debate. Today is the chance to renounce the oppressive legislation that stands in the way of the great challenge of having all Dutch buildings gasless by 2050 at the latest. The 2050 limit set in the Energy Agenda is the final limit. If it's up to the Party for Animals, we'll be off the gas sooner. As far as the sustainability of housing is concerned, the government agreement for the next cabinet period speaks of 30,000 to 50,000 homes per year that become gas-free. Today, at least, a first cautious step in this direction seems to be taken by removing the gas connection obligation for new construction. All support from the Party for Animals for this, but the real challenge lies not in the new building but in the existing building. These are as many as 7.7 million homes plus office buildings and buildings. All these 7.7 million homes will have to be smeared out in 32 years' time or at least degassed. That's a quarter of a million homes a year. That's a hell of a lot. Now there's only a few thousand of them. So there's a lot of work to be done. In this context, I look at the coalition's proposal. That was the amendment in part No. 19, but I understand it's been renumbered to 23. This proposal makes it possible for municipalities to designate gas-free neighbourhoods in existing buildings. That is another step in the right direction, but is it enough to make a quarter of a million homes a year gas-free? The possibility of designation of gas-free neighbourhoods by municipalities, as proposed by the coalition, is really something other than making these gas-free neighbourhoods a norm. That has to be the new norm. In the coming years gas-free will increasingly have to become the new standard, including for existing construction. If a municipality now wants to designate gas-free neighbourhoods, then there is still to be detailed justification. In fact, this is and will continue to be the norm, because only justified reasons can be allowed to deviate from it. That is still quite a threshold for making neighbourhoods gas-free. If we want gas-free to be the norm, then it must also affect the obligation of motivation. It should disappear if it's up to the Party for Animals. I also have an amendment in preparation to remove that obligation of motivation, because the obligation may in future constitute a barrier to the removal of gas from neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u32	In my view, Mr Wassenberg misinterprets the intention of our amendment. We want to make it easier for municipalities to remove the gas connection even in existing neighbourhoods. All we are trying to do is to make sure that municipalities are able to see if there is an alternative source of heat, so that these homes can also be connected to a different heat source than gas. I hope that Mr Wassenberg agrees with me that we should ask municipalities to do so in a good way, so that no one runs out of heat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u33	Of course, but the municipality can also see if that can be built. Now there really has to be detailed motivation, the municipality really has to do its best to remove a district from the gas. That's a real threshold. I think we all agree that this threshold should be as low as possible, so removing that obligation of motivation could work as a threshold reduction. That's actually what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u34	I think that Mr Wassenberg and I intend to do the same. I would ask him to look again at our amendment. Perhaps we can talk about that in a moment. The motivation we ask of a municipality is that, for example, a municipality that now needs to replace its gas network because of old age looks carefully at the social costs and benefits over the longer term. If you bring Groningen/climate change into this, it can hardly be profitable to replace such a gas network. So you really have to choose the sustainable alternatives, which are also available. So I think that our amendment does indeed respond to your concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u35	We look at it and, depending on our findings, we will or will not table that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Wassenberg also talked about degassing existing houses. Practice has shown, for example in Nijmegen, where this is already happening, that it costs around €60,000 per house. €60,000 per house! Then the question is, who the hell is gonna pay for all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u37	I will come back to that in a moment, because one of the things could be building-related financing, for example. I also have to say that the less homes are made gas-free, the more expensive it is. If it really becomes bulk production, but also if there is much more experience, that changes. Because every company that's going to make homes gas-free now has to reinvent the wheel a little bit. You notice that at the moment that runs and that flywheel turns, it becomes easier, faster and also cheaper. So that €60,000 I have also heard lower amounts if this is going to be the norm in any case. A major advantage for the longer term is that there are no more energy costs. Another advantage for the owner can be if he gets help with the funding. Housing corporations can tap into all kinds of pots and make that funding easy. Owners could make it easier, for example through building-based financing, to finance it and then by earning it back with lower energy costs. Mr President, I see that you want me to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u38	Because you said you'd come back to that, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yeah, you're right about that too! I just need to take a quick look at where I am. I'm talking about replacing and repairing gas pipes. The question, which Mr Jetten also asked, is: are we really going to invest in the replacement and repair of a gas pipeline at the moment when pipelines and gas networks are to be replaced? Or do we realize that that's a waste of money? In fact, replacing and repairing gas pipelines no longer fits in with a natural gas-free ambition, a natural gas-free future. If we do not maintain the gas grid, which has actually been written off a little bit, but at the moment that needs to be replaced, replacing it immediately with a good and sustainable alternative, then we will save money too. In this respect, we think it would be better to opt for a sustainable alternative immediately than to repair those obsolete networks or replace them with other gas networks. Replace it immediately with something sustainable. Mr. Chairman. In practice it still happens...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u40	Before you continue, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u41	Just before the sharpness. It may well be that we will need the infrastructure of the gas networks that we now have in the ground to bring the sustainable heat sources to the houses. I want to understand Mr Wassenberg for a moment. Does he mean that these nets can be maintained, but that we must not continue to maintain them and replace them purely for gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u42	Of course, we're not just gonna support them if we don't know what we're gonna do with them. As far as we are concerned, high-caloric gas is not a substitute for the low-caloric Groningen gas. We say that the future is really gasless in that respect. High caloric and low caloric both have an environmental impact. The moment you think you can deploy those gas networks in a very different way, you're obviously talking about something else. Then you're talking about an alternative system in which you invest. What I mean is that we are not going to maintain the pipes through which high-caloric or low-caloric gas is pumped as such as gas grids. The moment you can transform them into other, renewable energy supplies, of course, you have a very different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u43	Then Mr Wassenberg and I agree on this point. I'd like to ask him a follow-up question. Is it then up to the municipalities to speed up the heat plans by area, so that you can also fully determine in such a heat plan what to do with that infrastructure? Or does the Party for Animals want to decide here from The Hague what we're going to do with these nets?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u44	I want us in The Hague to determine what the room for manoeuvre, the framework of the municipalities, is going to be. Of course, it is the municipalities themselves who know what is possible and what is desirable. We are not going to steer this one-on-one from The Hague, but The Hague must create the frameworks. Mr. Chairman. Again, following on from what Mr Jetten said: in practice, it is still too often that streets and neighbourhoods are being broken open to replace the gas grid. Some time later, it may be years later, the neighborhood will be thoroughly renovated, removing the district from the gas. That's a real waste of money. We have to prevent that. The Party for Animals wants municipalities and housing corporations to align their plans for major renovations with the plans of grid operators to replace the gas infrastructure. So that should be a bit more equal. Then you avoid throwing away money by investing in outdated infrastructures. Mr. Chairman. I understand that the law already regulates that system operators should motivate replacement and that the ACM is testing for reasonableness. The question then is: what is reasonableness? Is it reasonable to fix an outdated gas system, knowing that this is a lost investment in a write-down energy supply? Can we assume that the ACM advises negatively on a replacement investment in the gas network if an alternative and sustainable grid can be built? As far as the Animal Party is concerned, the costs should not be an obstacle or a determining factor, because money that is now being spent on patching up an outdated gas system is, by definition, wasted money if we take seriously our ambition to be gasless in 32 years' time. I would like an answer from the Minister. I am also considering an amendment on this. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister a question about the method of financing, which Mrs Dik-Faber has already asked. At the moment it is not quite clear to me what the financial side of the energy transition looks like, at least if we are going to remove existing buildings from the gas. I am particularly concerned about how this can be financed in the private housing market. Who will bear the financial consequences of this? As I said earlier in reply to a question from Mr Kops, housing corporations have good financing structures but individuals do not have them. When, for example, we can help individuals through building-based funding to bear these financial burdens, you make it a lot more attractive and speed up the energy transition. I ask the Minister: is there any possibility in the FAT Act that this experimental space will be used for building-related funding? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to focus on the energy performance of housing. The Environmental Act should make it possible to impose performance on dwellings later, but this is especially true for new construction and not for existing construction. Moreover, this Environmental Act will enter into force in 2021 at its very, very early stage. That's not for three, four years. We simply don't have that time. Does the Minister or do municipalities have the possibility to impose energy performance requirements on existing housing? And if not, doesn't this law offer an excellent opportunity? Does the Minister agree with me that this should not be included in the law until 2021? I'd like a response. I'd like to close with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The energy transition is one of the biggest challenges at the moment. A fast shift from fossil to sustainable is important for our climate and for Groningen. Residents and businesses play a crucial role in this transition, but the government must also do so by setting the right example and creating the right frameworks. The fact that we are talking today about the Progress Act energy transition, not "accelerating energy transition," says enough about where we are now. Unfortunately, this law is not the dreamed accelerator, but it does take some important steps, especially with the Minister's last letter of amendment. I therefore hope that this law will be a starting point for an accelerated energy transition and that market players and public parties will work together to achieve that energy transition. D66 therefore supports the FAT Act, so that after this we can really get to work. Mr. Chairman. With this law, we are giving the market more room for sustainable innovation, and we are giving governments and public companies more room to move the transition forward if the market is not yet able to take on its role. As far as we are concerned, network operators are primarily for stable and reliable networks, but the VET Act also gives network operators and network companies the opportunity to develop activities that otherwise will not or will not get off the ground soon enough. Because the VET Act clarifies the limits of those activities and how they are assessed, we prevent unfair competition with market players. We're setting up this market surveillance in a sensible way. The complexity of the energy transition and the pace of new developments make it difficult to define in advance what activities network companies should and should not engage in. D66 is therefore pleased that, with the letter of amendment to this law, we temporarily allow activities and can flexibly add new activities and provide space for experiments. The activities of network operators and network companies are thus aimed at stimulating the energy transition and stimulating innovation in the field of renewable energy. In order to combat unfair competition, we need to look closely at transparency about these activities and the flows of money within network operators and network companies. Does the Minister consider that we have adequately regulated this transparency with this law? We also see that much still needs to be worked out in an AMvB. As a D66 group, we will ensure that the intention of this law is reflected in the underlying legislation. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet wants to free 30,000 to 50,000 homes every year. This week our Minister Ollongren and Minister Wiebes launched the new site energysavingdoenu.nl. Mrs Beckerman has already spoken about this. The site contains dozens of smart tips for home owners to make your home more sustainable. A subsidy pot of no less than 100 million euros is available for, for example, floor and wall insulation or the installation of heat pumps and solar boilers. D66 hopes that with this information website and the financial contribution of the government home owners we will give that extra boost, so that they can reduce their energy bill and create a pleasant living environment and so that every Dutchman can contribute to achieving the objectives of the climate agreement. I can be clear about the Gas Act: D66 wants all homes in the Netherlands to go off the gas as quickly as possible. This is good for the climate as well as for Groningen. Together with colleague Mulder of the CDA, D66 already arranged for the budget to phase out the gas fired central heating boiler, and today we are taking the step to get all new buildings off the gas grid as soon as possible. The transition from gas to sustainable alternatives must also be facilitated in existing construction. As far as I am concerned, local authorities have an important role to play in this. We can make our villages and cities more sustainable if municipalities can easily remove the gas connection as soon as they know where they want to go with their heat plan. In February 2017, my colleague Stientje van Veldhoven already tabled an amendment on this subject, and Mr Bosman of the VVD also made a proposal, but unfortunately this law remained in place for a long time and we could not arrange the removal of the gas connection earlier. But today, with the amendment I tabled, we can do this together with Mrs Yeşilgöz, Mrs Agnes Mulder and Mrs Dik-Faber. In short, this proposal comes down to the following. The current mandatory gas connection makes way for a no-unless principle. In principle, the gas is no longer connected to the gas unless there are serious reasons which make a gas connection still strictly necessary. Municipalities must take into account all social costs and benefits. As far as I'm concerned, that's a tough test. I welcome the positive reactions of municipalities, project developers, contractors and network operators. I am confident that, with these new rules, municipalities will make massive use of gas-free neighbourhoods and industrial buildings without gas connection, not only in the case of large-scale new construction on the outskirts of the city, but also in the case of expansion, thus renewal in the existing built-up area. In places where there is already a gas network, more and more people want to get rid of the gas, Mrs Beckermans spoke just now about house owners, for example, who have long stopped cooking on gas and heating their homes with green alternatives such as heat pumps. If these people really want to get rid of the gas, they have to pay for shutting down that gas connection. That is not for nothing already mentioned in the media, because these costs can amount to hundreds of euros. In a few previous debates, we had a brief exchange of views with the Minister, but I would like to ask him a few more questions. Does the Minister agree with D66 that the closure penalty does not, of course, encourage people to get off the gas? Is the Minister prepared to consider whether this fine can be removed or reduced? If that is not possible, is the Minister prepared to create a subsidy for people who want such a closure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u47	A small question to my colleague Jetten. I couldn't agree more. I also raised this point in the EZK budget. I didn't get any support from D66 at the time. I'm glad D66 does now. What changed in the meantime? And in what direction is Mr Jetten looking for a change in that closing fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u48	I am very pleased that Mrs van Tongeren raised this point in the budget debate. I think we've all been getting a lot of e-mails since then from people who want to get rid of the gas and run into that fine. If I recall correctly, Mrs Van Tongeren then had a motion that immediately provided a solution. That went a little too far for me back then. I would now like to hear from the Minister what possibilities he sees to move the network operators to reduce or eliminate that fine altogether. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, I would like to see with Mrs Van Tongeren whether we can enforce it from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u49	It was a "requests the Minister to see what is possible" motion, so we are all on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u50	Great, thank you. Then I come to a bit about heat grids. If we want to take all our houses off the gas, we also need to be able to power our buildings in other ways. Heat becomes an indispensable source in the energy mix. However, the roll-out of heat grids is currently too slow. After all, the first district to switch to a heat grid must finance the entire infrastructure, which is often not attractive. D66 sees a role for public networks with a level playing field for market players offering heat, sharing the costs of construction by a larger part of society and offering consumers maximum choice. The letter of amendment states that "Infrastructure activities closely related to other forms of energy such as the construction and management of heat grids are permitted'. I am therefore pleased to read in the letter of amendment that the Minister agrees with D66 that it may be desirable to give network operators a role in the construction and management of heat grids in order to speed up the deployment of these heat grids. A few questions about that. Will the Minister include provisions in the Heat Act to properly anchor this role of the grid operators? Does the Minister agree with D66 that network operators should be responsible for the construction of heat transmission networks from the heat source to the building industry? What role does the Minister see in the construction and management of distribution networks for heat in the neighbourhoods? Then cable. I had a very long text for that, but Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Beckerman have already spoken about it, so I shall cut it a little bit. But with this law we also arrange the cost allocation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u51	I agree with D66 when it comes to the role of grid operators and companies in heat grids. I was wondering if you also think that the bill clearly states that it is also about transporting steam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u52	This is a very specific question which Mr Van der Lee asks me about. So I couldn't say if the law is sufficiently clear about that. Mr Van der Lee probably doesn't think so, so we'll hear from the Minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Cable. With this law we regulate the cost distribution between Rijk, municipalities and province for the undergrounding of high-voltage connections. Many people find high-voltage masts a pollution of the horizon, but there are also concerns about health when masts are close to houses or buildings. However, getting high-voltage cables underground is difficult, often due to high costs for municipalities. Mrs Beckerman has already spoken about the section Eemshaven-Four Leaves in Groningen, to which D66 has paid a great deal of attention from the Chamber to at least give local groups an extra role in the discussion on that route. But in this case, unfortunately, it has failed, and people are now prepared to go to the Council of State. D66 would like to see that different in the future. For this to happen, the financial contribution we ask of municipalities, especially smaller municipalities with a small budget, must be real. The law now states that the rules on the division of costs between the Empire, provinces and municipalities are laid down in a General Measure of Governance. If I interpret it correctly, this means that there should be room for customisation and there should be no generic statutory co-financing. Is this interpretation correct? At the same time, we do hear signals from the field of cost-sharing percentages. Municipalities with more than 30,000 inhabitants should bear 25% of the cost and municipalities with less than 30,000 inhabitants 20%. The total amount could thus amount to almost EUR 1 million per kilometre. Does the Minister agree with D66 that this kind of money is difficult to pay for mainly smaller municipalities? Will the Minister undertake to examine, for the AMvB with provinces and municipalities, whether the contributions of municipalities can be reduced? Is the Minister prepared to look at an integrated area-based approach, establishing an optimal cost allocation per region? I think Mrs Dik-Faber gave a good example of a city with a lot of kilometres of high-voltage cable, while bringing it underground actually benefits the wider region. I think that customization there could be a good solution for that high cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u55	This is actually the same as what the SP of course asks. It's kind of weird that we want to put it under the ground right now, but that the route from the Eems to Four Leaves, a beautiful landscape, is still going to be cross-sectioned. Now you're saying, "Well, too bad, but better in the future?" Or do you say now: well, Minister, look very carefully at that, because firstly, it is a wish of a province that has already been hit so hard, secondly, you yourself say that the costs are not fairly distributed, asking whether we can even look at whether there is anything more possible for Groningen, and thirdly, a path to the Council of State is causing delays. So now you're saying, "Too bad"? Or do you say that more is needed, I ask the Minister and perhaps I am prepared to do something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u56	I think the Chamber has been at the top of this trajectory over the past few years. The Chamber has deliberately asked for residents' groups to be included in the whole process of choice. I note, however, that this process in Groningen has now been completed and that the province and municipalities have not succeeded in finding a solution together with wiring. It is now going towards the Council of State, so I personally do not feel that I should make a new statement about it in this debate today as a Chamber. Let's wait and see the Council of State process. I would ask the Minister to do better in future cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u57	Of course, that's a little disappointing. Because you are aware that this is actually very sad for Groningen because of government policy, which has already borne so much energy burdens and has also come up with alternatives. Shouldn't we stop this from being a whole legal battle, but start talking right again, precisely because we recognize these mistakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u58	I understand Mrs Beckerman's questions. I will also listen very carefully to the Minister's answer to both of our questions, but at the moment I do not see the opportunity to intervene in that process from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u59	I understand that Mr Jetten is concerned about changing the cost of wiring. That's what I've got to worry about. You're going to turn it left via the network tariffs or right through the WOZ in a limited number of municipalities. Eventually the costs are socialized, left or right. Is Mr Jetten prepared to go along with the argument that if you are going to socialise the costs to all users, both citizens and businesses and not to a limited number of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u60	I also deliberately mentioned the example of Veenendaal, which Mrs Dik-Faber also mentioned. In Veenendaal the cables run for miles over the building, while these cables mainly meet the energy needs of the city of Groningen. That is why I asked whether we could find tailor-made solutions for each region, so that, in such a case, you could share the costs with the wider region that would benefit from the construction or undermining of these cables. So I think I am on Mr Moorlag's line, namely that we need to share those costs more widely than just in the municipality where those masts happen to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u61	But if you do it in a region, you have to start drawing lines again. And every line you draw creates another border case. Is it not much more effective simply to socialise it through network tariffs, which means that it is not mainly for citizens but also for business, so it is for large energy consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u62	I guess you're assuming that everything has to be underground by definition. I just want provinces and municipalities to look at each other in which case it has to be underground and in which case it doesn't. I think those lines can be drawn, because those high-voltage cables with masts start somewhere and end somewhere. Then you also have the area you should be looking for such an area-oriented solution for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mr. Chairman. I come to my last theme: electric cars. From 2030, this cabinet only wants emission-free cars in the showroom. In the coming years, a huge boost is expected from the sale of electric cars. That's great because those cars are quieter and cleaner. Charging these cars can be done at fast charging stations, but also at home in the driveway or in the street if there is a loading pole. As far as D66 is concerned, electric cars are only charged with green electricity and, if possible, even with decentrally generated energy. The boost of electric cars, which we expect, can also accelerate the entire transition. Owners of electric cars can also help to prevent the peaks on the power grid. Charging your car during the day at home on the pole is not always convenient if the rest of the country uses a lot of power at that time. At the same time, there is often a peak supply of energy at night, for example when the windmills run at sea at full power. If we were to charge our cars massively at those moments, we could also make the most of that generated power. But how do we get the owner of an electric car to choose to charge his car to the peak moments? This requires first of all a smart grid, where you as a consumer can get a lower price if you charge your car at peak times. Secondly, as a consumer, you should be able to choose between different companies that offer such a service. The current regulatory framework is still hampering smart solutions. D66 would therefore like to challenge the Minister to change this. Can the Minister in general measure allow companies other than grid operators or energy suppliers to bear balance responsibility so that these new companies can offer services such as smart charging of your car? Can the Minister ensure that as a car owner you can actually get a lower rate, because the system operator will reward flexibility with a lower rate? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. We are talking today about the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. Within a few weeks we will also discuss the Heat Act. With these three laws and the amendment to remove the gas connection obligation, we are taking important steps in accelerating the energy transition. And acceleration is what D66, this cabinet and this minister are up to in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u65	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Canada was attacked by a cold wave of -40°C less than a month ago. In some places it hasn't been this cold in a century. Thousands of winter sportsmen in Switzerland are nowhere to go. They're completely snowed in because of the amount of snow that fell. And also in Florida the new year was inaugurated with lots of snow. It snowed there for the first time in 30 years with temperatures around freezing point, and all that in the Sunshine State Florida. Okay, that was just a few messages from the past. So much for global warming and the need for an energy transition. Nevertheless, Mr. President... I have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yeah, and that while you've been at it for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u68	Well, that's to be expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u69	I'm very curious. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u70	Does the PVV know that climate change cannot be read from a single day, but that you have to look at the changes over a longer period of time and not depend on one day?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u71	Yes, of course. I shall come back to that later in my speech. Of course, absolutely. But the other way around, it happens all the time. I'm going to give examples. The climate crazies do cite a single example to demonstrate the so-called global warming caused by humans. Of course, you have to look at it over a longer period of time. The fact is that the Earth has been warmed up at 0.85°C in the last 150 years. The fact is that this has stabilised over the past two decades. Anyway, again, I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u72	Yesterday we had the warmest 24 January of the last 100 years in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u73	Exactly the same!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u74	There is no scientist who says: that is an illustration of the climate effect. If it happens for years behind each other and for the last twenty years, so to speak, because I do it out of my head for a moment, sixteen of them are among the warmest, then there is indeed an effect. But there is no scientist who says: that is proof of the climate effect. It's a long time. Perhaps the PVV should realize that at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u75	If Mr Wassenberg believes in what he is saying now, then he should ask himself why. But I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u76	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u77	Yet the climate crazies are trying to tell us that if we do nothing about climate change and do nothing about energy transition, the earth will perish. At the same time, this Minister is trying to tell us that it is above all a very good idea to spend all economic growth on it in the next 30 years. That is many billions that will simply be thrown away. Billions! The Minister's already shaking no. Look, Chairman, what kind of contempt is that? I'm going to talk about it later in my text. He answered written questions from the PVV this week. In that he also talks about billions. The energy transition will cost 4 to 5 billion per year for 30 years. So don't shake no! That's some bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u78	Minister, will you stop moving and send out all sorts of non-verbal signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u79	I'll try not to move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u80	Good. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u81	I don't care, but still.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u82	Yes. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr Kops often talks about the cost of the transition, but I never really hear the PVV talk about the cost of rising sea levels and what that means for Dutch water safety or the cost of extreme weather, as we have seen again in recent weeks. Insurers are calling for climate change to cost Dutch citizens millions and millions of additional insurance premiums. In her speech, would the PVV also like to take the costs of bringing about climate change over us? Investing now means that the Dutchman is ready for the future for a lower price.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u84	Of course, that was predictable. I have just prepared this too. I don't hear numbers at all. I don't hear billions at all. I do not hear Mr Jetten say: if we do nothing about the alleged climate change caused by man, it will cost so much billion. I don't hear that. But it is striking, because Mr Jetten's argument is becoming increasingly apparent. The left is turning the issue around. They do not focus on how much it costs if we carry out the energy transition, but on how much it costs if we do not do so. You turn the story around and so you show that your actual story, namely that we have to go through that energy transition, is not working at all, partly because of the costs. And then you yourself show that you lack credibility in that story. That's why you're turning it around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u85	I'm not turning anything around, and it's not about left or right. I am concerned about Mr Kops just very gently using the adjective "alleged" so alleged climate change...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u86	Caused by man, I said. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr Kops mentioned figures and evidence. Mr Wassenberg has just shown that our Earth has been warming up over the past few decades and that we are seeing such a climate change coming towards us. Then it is our responsibility to prepare the Netherlands together. I note that the PVV is closing its eyes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u88	Over the last twenty years, the temperature increase has stabilised and CO emissions have increased, including in the Netherlands. It's as simple as that. Maybe it's the sun. The solar activity certainly plays a role in that, but I do not hear about that. CO has been identified as the great culprit and we need to return it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u90	Yes, Chairman, but where was I? So the energy bill will only rise further, just as long until people, literally, sit in the dark. Perhaps the Minister means that by means of energy-neutral housing: not using less energy, but simply not using energy. What does he mean by climate-neutral housing, housing that is not allowed to emit CO? The Minister must be aware that we also exhale CO. Does he mean that people are no longer allowed to breathe in their homes, or are they themselves driven out of their homes because of the high costs? The question now is what it's all good for. Less CO emissions, then, say all parties in this Chamber. But why? What's the effect of that? These really very basic questions have not been asked for a long time. For some reason CO is the great culprit, while it is also a source of food for everything that is green. 97% of the CO is just natural CO. Without CO, no nature. To clarify, I have a quote from Salomon Kroonenberg, professor of geology at TU Delft: "We often use the human measure for our planet and not the size of the earth itself. Earth has its own life, which has lasted 4.5 billion years. All natural disasters have taken place in the past. It's nothing new to Earth." During a technical briefing on the impact of this government's policy on energy and climate, the Planning Office for the Environment told me that this policy is a drop in the ocean. In other words, it's pointless. And yes, it is pointless indeed. Marcel Crok has calculated that Rutte III's energy and climate policy in 2030 will, in the most favourable case, lead to a lower temperature increase of 0,00027oC. This is therefore completely negligible and not even measurable with scientific methods. So we are talking about expensive rumblings in all the smallest margins. That's it. And anyone here in this Chamber who thinks, in any way, of being able to influence the climate, leads to a serious form of delusion of grandeur. The wandering lights of the World Economic Forum like to do a little bit more on top of that. Boss above boss, they must have thought. Indeed, they have called the alleged climate change caused by man world threat number one. Yeah, world threat number one. Let that get to you. So not Islam, not terrorism; no, climate change is world threat number one. If you say that with dry eyes, you're just not right in the head. And what's all this about? What's behind that? People are just trying to scare the citizens. For example, can you remember such a story as the picture with the emaciated polar bear? That photo has crossed the whole world and has appeared in all media. A pathetic polar bear, unable to find food in the wasteland that is his habitat. And what's that all about? Climate change, it was said. And that's what I'm talking about. An example is then picked out: this is climate change, and therefore the polar bears die out. That's how it was framed. A single photo as a pathetic factor. Soon it became known that this is fake news. I think that's something that this cabinet also wants to fight. The reality is that there are just enough polar bears, more than 40 years ago. But then we actually have the core of the whole climate debate to tackle the energy debate, although there has been no real discussion for a long time. Stories are taken out of context, citizens are scared. A picture of an emaciated polar bear as a sign that the world is ending. And precisely in that context, we must place the energy transition. We need renewable energy, we need to reduce CO emissions, otherwise we will all perish. And to think, how cynical is it? That the reduction of CO emissions in the Netherlands will not even succeed, because these emissions have increased over the past year. Very cynical, or rather: what amateurism! That is, of course, completely laughable, but on the other hand, if you realise that this is based on a very expensive policy that costs billions. Increased CO emissions: we will not directly make PVV a problem, but we do think it is bizarre and scandalous that citizens should pay for CO-reducing measures while emissions increase. So it's fake measures. For this purpose, in 2030, households will pay extra between €600 and €720 per year on top of the already huge energy bill. So that's just gonna be fine. And what's it good for? It's hot air. And it is worth remembering that Germany is giving up its 2020 climate targets for unfeasibility, despite the huge, expensive energy struggle. In Germany, too, emissions are simply taking place at that time. Formally, the targets are postponed, because the idea that it would all be good for something must of course be maintained. They're doing everything they can. Let me give you a few examples. As far as mass immigration is concerned, there are no limits for the elite who govern our country, both literally and figuratively. But when it comes to climate action, people like to retreat behind the dikes and hold on to the idea of being very busy. Rutte III's energy and climate policy is therefore nothing more than a vulgar, expensive breast beat. Look at us in the Netherlands doing well! Globally, the effect is zero, but we are doing well. I would just like to refer briefly to that 0.00027°C: effect on the climate "zero," effect on the citizens' wallet "great." Granted, each one's hobby, if you like senseless messing in the margins, go ahead, but don't turn the costs on the citizens. However, because citizens have to pay and remain quiet, the climate story must remain intact at all costs. The climate crazies do all kinds of things. They don't know what to think of madness anymore. The latest concept is climate refugees. Yes, climate change would hunt a million so-called refugees to Europe. So you can see that maintaining the climate story has different goals. It is intended not only to knock money out of citizens' pockets, but also to condone the arrival of lucky seekers. And vice versa, the lucky seekers who come here for the climate cart are being strained, shamelessly abused for keeping the climate story up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u91	I'll try not to show my anger too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u92	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u93	However, my question to the PVV Group about the word 'climate refugees' is: what does the PVV Group say to people living in countries where floods exist and where crops fail? "You're gonna stay there"? "Your house is wiped out; you have no life and no future anymore, but just sit where you sit and solve it yourself"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u94	Apparently, Mrs. Dik-Faber believes in climate refugees. All right, then maybe she should talk to all the asylum seekers in this country, for example the 70,000 Syrian status holders we have here. They keep our social housing occupied, but well, that aside. Then perhaps you should ask them: why did you flee? According to Mrs Dik-Faber, how many of those Syrian status holders will reply: well, I fled the climate, because the climate in the Netherlands is so much better? What do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u95	I believe in a God who is creator of this earth. I see that humanity is making sure that there is climate change, but that humanity also has the opportunity to combat climate change. There are currently people on this earth, our fellow creatures, who suffer from the way we live more than burden, because harvests fail and their house is underwater. I believe that we have an international responsibility for this. We can't record everyone in the Netherlands. That's not what I'm saying either. I do think that we should take responsibility and do everything we can to combat climate change and to look to our citizens, not only in the Netherlands, but also further away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u96	I would like to ask Mr Kops whether he knows that Dutch defence, American defence and NATO, all clubs that Mr Kops is also a fan of, indicate that climate change will be the biggest cause of wars and refugee flows in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u97	Yeah, you seem to believe in that. But is it? I have already said that 3% of CO in our atmosphere is human. There's 0.04% COin in the atmosphere. So if we start calculating, that means that the atmosphere consists of 0.0012 per cent of CO generated by human action. Why don't you go over that first? 'Cause you're so many steps ahead. Then go back to the core. How much CO emissions does humans actually cause? And is it possible that such a small proportion of the climate could have a significant impact? I just read you a quote from a professor questioning that. He says: no, none of that can be done; that's all nonsense. But you still want to hang on to that nonsense a phenomenon like "climate refugees." And why? Because it's convenient for you. You're just looking for an extra reason for people coming our way. You're trying to condone it that way. I have already told you that it is actually scandalous, because if you were really so concerned with refugees, you would not say so. In fact, you are using their position to promote your own climate story. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u98	The best solution for people who have to flee their homes is for us all to ensure that they can just stay in their own region. The Defence Summit, like 99.9% of scientists, says that climate change, which leads to extreme drought, floods and the struggle for drinking water, is the biggest cause of refugee flows in the coming decades. If the PVV really believes that we need to ensure that people can stay in their own country and come to the Netherlands less...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u99	Then we have to close the borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u100	...then the PVV should join the climate coalition and work with us to stop climate change. Then the PVV is really helping the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u101	That's a bad story. It's a bad story. I have answered Mr Jetten's first question. I also came up with numbers and stuff. He's not even going into it. Of course, that's very weak. The conclusion is: those so-called refugees come to the Netherlands to pillage our welfare state. They don't come for the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, here we are debating the Progress Act on Energy Transition. After all, this transition must be accelerated. Why? Because, of course, citizens realize that they are being cheated and squeezed; see the rising energy bill. That transition must be pushed through, quickly, so that at some point there is no turning back. I do not hear any party in this Chamber about the rising burdens. While we are debating this issue openly, the Minister is negotiating behind closed doors with companies, grid operators and environmental organisations on a new energy and climate agreement, which is due to appear this year. My question is: what is the situation? Can he update on that? 'Cause we've been hearing so little about it lately. Or maybe that's the point? Are we going to end up with a ready-made agreement, which we have to deal with? Is the Minister prepared to involve the Chamber in these negotiations and talks openly so that we and the citizens know what we are ultimately burdened with? Because let's face it, if it's all right, the minister has nothing to hide, right? But in the meantime, the minister wants to move into the country with a cabaret, Guido Weijers, to promote the energy transition. It's actually just too ludicrous for words. He shouldn't go into the country with a cabaret. He must first of all involve the Chamber here in the conclusion of that agreement. We must, of course, avoid following the bad example of Germany. It was recently announced that the target of 95% CO reduction in 2050 will cost about 2.3 trillion euros. I had to take a good look, but that's a 2 with 12 zeroes. In the absence of openness, I would like to ask the following question: is such a sum, of course in proportion, waiting for us? This week, as I said, the Minister sent the answers to PVV-Room questions. This showed that it is not yet clear how the costs will fall on the energy bill. That depends on the design of the policy. That's impossible, isn't it? Because those costs are interesting, because they are so absurdly high. And as far as that policy is concerned, isn't that exactly what we're talking about here? The explanatory memorandum states that the costs of electricity and gas networks cannot be established in advance. In other words, we'll give you a blank check here: just do it, figure it out with your energy transition and we'll see what it costs. That's impossible, isn't it? There is a report from Netbeheer Nederland. This shows that the overall cost of infrastructure and investment in electricity and gas networks is estimated at between 20 billion and 71 billion. So that's just another thing. And what does that mean for the energy bill? Can the Minister answer that? Anyway, this room is fine with it. We need to get rid of the gas; we've all heard that. We need windmills. That is pretty much the only thing these parties are dealing with. Speaking of windmills, we do not hear anyone talking about the costs or the raw materials needed to manufacture these mills. Last week an article was published showing that child labour is involved in the Congo and that there is water pollution in Zambia. Lack of local control rules and protocols. All to provide raw materials for the production of windmills. Then why don't we hear so-called "world improvers" about that? Because that wouldn't be a good time, would it? As I said to Mr Jetten, the only thing that is being done throughout the discussion is to reverse the discussion. So we're not talking about the cost of the energy transition itself anymore, but we're going to talk vaguely about what it would cost us if we didn't do anything about that energy transition. It is clear that the climate story of the left does not really work very well. We're out of arguments. The discussion is turned around in the proclamation of their actual story, because they lack credibility. Yes, climate alarmists who have to be out of poverty of a single emaciated polar bear and of climate refugees, and such a concept of this kind, have, of course, lost all credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you. Mrs Yeşilgöz has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u105	I hear a whole speech from the PVV: we should not do anything about energy transition, they are all climate crazy, and above all we should not switch from fossil fuels to clean fuels. We now know from the PVV that its solution to the fact that our fossil fuels are running out is making the Netherlands dependent on countries like Russia. It is up to the PVV to explain that to the Dutch. I have another question. This is about the VET Act, so I'm so curious what the PVV thinks of what's ahead. What do you think of the role of the system operators, the role of the market players and the implementation of the letter of amendment? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u106	And I am so curious what the VVD thinks of my story. 'Cause I'm standing here for 15 minutes! I stand here for 15 minutes, and Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD cannot even go into the substance of this. For as I said in my introduction, yes, there is now a laugh that you are ignoring the real problem, the real question. The explanatory memorandum to this bill simply states why we need to implement that energy transition. Does Mrs Yeşilgöz know what that statement says? Why do we have to go through that energy transition? Why? What's the underlying idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u107	Mrs Yeşilgöz will be next. Then you can ask her that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u108	The underlying idea is therefore the Paris climate agreement: we need to get rid of CO in relation to global warming, and that is what we are all doing. And everyone in the Chamber accepts that for truth, as a fact: yes, that's it. No one's wondering if that's true. That's what I've been talking about for 15 minutes. Can Mrs Yeşilgöz go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u109	I have summarized that 15 minutes as: the energy transition is nonsense, we do not believe in it, the fossil fuels are running out, so it will be, and then we have to become dependent on Russia. It's been noted. Next, I would very much like to talk about the content of the law. Why? I hear the PVV here complaining and complaining and complaining about the costs. This law is precisely designed so that we can set up our infrastructure with as little cost as possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u110	Well, that's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u111	... so that Dutch households incur as little as possible costs. From a party that says it is concerned about the costs, would you expect it to devote a sentence to the minister: gosh, that law is so set up and the infrastructure looks like this, but can it possibly be even cheaper and even better arranged for all those Dutch people who are going to see this? That is why I was so curious about a substantive position. But if there isn't, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u112	What are you talking about? Costs that have to go down? I just mentioned it. These costs are estimated at up to 71 billion for infrastructure alone. And those are still estimates. It is not clear how all this will fall down on the household energy bill. And then you, for all intents and purposes, dare to speak of lower costs? What a brutality! That's what she's said three times now, isn't it? That we'd be dependent on Russian gas. You also asked the same question in the previous debate on Groningen. So come on, don't repeat yourself. We currently have streamline 1 from Russia to Germany. That's just a pipeline that's lying there and that's going through about 55 billion cubic metres a year. And now we are talking about a second pipeline, which should simply be sidelined. And in any case the European Commission, yes, as far as the left is concerned, we must be sustainable, with an energy transition that you are such a fan of, is interfering. Anyway, you dare say here that we must be independent of Russian gas. Well, I don't understand anymore. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mr Kops has just spent 15 minutes quoting himself. Perhaps he could extend that a little bit by also addressing the issue of dependence on oil from the Middle East. I can imagine that the dependence of oil sheiks on Mr Kops' approach also deserves some consideration. Isn't a transition of energy necessary just for that reason? I refer, for example, to the electrification of cars, of the fleet, precisely because of their dependence. That is the geopolitical dimension. Russia is one of them. The question is whether you should be happy about that, but okay. This Middle East aspect, can you go into that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u114	That is, of course, an opportunity argument from the SGP. You only come up with this argument to show your own equality, namely that the energy transition must be there. That is the only reason why you are putting forward that argument. You just said the electrification is increasing. That's right. I think I forgot those questions, but well, the electrification is increasing. Where do we get that electricity? Where are we gonna get it? From the windmills and the solar panels you're such a fan of? They're only getting a few percent right now. How are we supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u115	Respect for the way in which Mr Kops manages to circumvent questions and, above all, not to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u116	It's totally irrelevant. That's not the discussion!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u117	I would like to make the point that Mr Kops does not yet know what my contribution is. I would strongly ask him to establish the link between his vision of the energy transition, which in his view is not necessary, and the geopolitical dimension. This is an aspect which we must give full weight to in careful decision-making and planning for the future, regardless of how we feel about the energy transition. I invite you to deal with this in substance and not to end with a question in the direction of the SGP. When my turn comes, you'll have plenty of opportunity. It will then be a pleasure for me to try to answer you in substance. But give me an answer to the substance of this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u118	Look, Mr. Bishop is not going to decide for me what to say here, yes. I'm not gonna let him drag me into his frame in any way. Could he perhaps appreciate the content of my story, for example the cost of the whole energy transition, of which he is such a fan? Can you go into that sometime? You are presenting it here as a definite fact that we must carry through the energy transition. Why don't you go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u119	Mr Bishop is being challenged, so he will have the opportunity to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u120	I have not yet made any statements about the fixed costs as far as I know, not now, nor at an earlier stage. On the contrary, I am very conscious of the content of your speech. That's what interruptions are for. I note that for the second time you are simply bypassing a well-considered answer to a question which is nevertheless perfectly legitimate and which is not aimed at it, and I would like to add that to draw you into a particular frame. My question invites you to include this dimension of the whole issue as well. Anyway, this is the last chance, I'll say, because there's no more chance for the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u121	You've made your point. And thank you for recognizing the latter. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u122	Does Mr Kops know the Groninger concept of "sickness"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u123	I see everyone looking weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u124	No, but I can imagine. I don't think it's very positive. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u125	This term is sometimes used in people who display the behaviour shown by Mr Kops. In the Groningen is a much too high turned-up petroleum lamp that distributes a lot of soot and CO next to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u126	Thank you, Mr. Kops. Then today we learned a bit of Gronings. I hope the stenography department can translate this. Yeah? That's it. I now turn to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to those colleagues who have already addressed the urgency of tackling climate change and the pace of energy transition. Unfortunately, both the extraction of fossil fuels and the use of them are increasingly causing a great deal of damage and many casualties. So it's not least because of our Groningen people's ability to live now and for all generations after us, that we're moving forward in the energy transition. Today we are talking very specifically about a bill that is indeed called "Law Progress Energy Transition." Mr Dik-Faber argued for a change of name: Act acceleration energy transition. Unfortunately, it is actually a recovery from the delay in the energy transition. We have already had this discussion in the context of the STROOM Act, which has been killed a few years ago in the Upper House. My group regrets that we have been delayed, but it is very important that we restore that delay and get back into an acceleration. I would like to point out that GroenLinks will once again support this law, although we do have a number of wishes and improvements on parts. I will go into this but not until after I have reported that my colleague, Liesbeth van Tongeren, will go into detail after me on the gas connection obligation, which we want to delete, and other issues related to the gas dossier. What I am going to deal with, which was also the most important point of the STROOM Act, is the organisation of the market and its clarification. GroenLinks would like to maximise the pace of innovation and the acceleration of the energy transition. Network operators and network companies play a crucial role in this, often also as a pioneer. As an example, the charging company Allego, successfully set up by the network company Alliander, has also been offered to the market since today to buy. Of course, my party is also in favour of a clear organisation of the market in which all the parties concerned know where they stand and what their role is. We are pleased that this law provides clarity on this issue. The Minister made it possible to assign additional tasks to network companies and, through the letter of amendment sent yesterday, made it even clearer and more explicit. In addition, new activities can be added in the future per AMvB. I have a few questions about that. Is this a matter of temporary new activities or can it also be an open-ended activity? Or does that last category require a change of law? There are also some examples of infrastructure that network companies are allowed to manage, including heat and cold. Can the Minister state explicitly, also because there is a need from the field, whether steam is also covered by the heat definition? The market organisation and legislation must be clear but not too rigid either, as this can unnecessarily hamper the necessary acceleration in innovation and energy transition. If there are tasks and innovations in the future that are not directly picked up by the market and where network companies have to intervene, then the law should not be an obstacle. That is why we want to offer a little more flexibility to network companies and give them the opportunity to develop those activities that the market has not yet come up with and cannot yet pick up or which the market is going to benefit fully from, for example because digital tools or software integrated across the chain or between the individual parts are being developed that enable energy savings or efficiency gains to be achieved without having to be lobbied every time in the Ministry for adaptation through a general governance measure. For example, the use of blockchains, developments in the internet or things or perhaps even later developments in quantum mechanics can be considered. The controversial former US Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld once said "Forgive me, Chairman, this is in English: "We know there are known unknowns. That's to say, we know there are some things we do not know. But there are also unknown unknowns, the ones we don't know we don't know." Technological developments are going so fast and have so much momentum that it is also necessary for the energy transition that GroenLinks actually wants to offer some space for both forms of unknowns in this law. That is also what our amendment sees as being in favour of. I hope that the Minister will give a positive view on this. The network operator should now only increase the network capacity to cope with the increase in solar and wind energy. The costs of deeper network investments, i.e. increasing cables and transformers further down the grid, are borne by the company. A network operator should be able to make smarter choices for efficient network management. Can the Minister explain how this bill contributes to more space for alternatives to net increase? This law also makes it possible to exchange shares of network operators, in order to encourage international partnerships. Several colleagues have already spoken about this. With Mr Dik-Faber, I have great concerns about this development. Because is it wise to invest public money in public companies outside the Netherlands? What exactly is the purpose of that? And what kind of problem is this going to solve? Isn't it true that it brings with it many more potential risks because you are going to invest in activities that you don't fully manage and also possibly pay for failures, including in the financial sense? Do we have to spend our precious money, which takes a lot of money, because that energy transition actually costs a lot of money? I therefore call on the Minister to consider this as well and, if possible, to reconsider it. The law also makes it possible to allow the sale of houses under a high-voltage connection and to address other local integration and support problems by moving or submerging high-voltage connections. Cables are called in the jargon, which has already been mentioned by several speakers. I can see that there are problems and great challenges there. I have also visited myself when building a 380kV connection. If you go underground, you have to use twice as many cables because electricity under the ground behaves differently than above the ground. So that also costs a lot more money. That is not possible everywhere and always. That's just too expensive, I understand. At the same time, these power lines are important for the whole country. So socializing those costs should also be done. There must be a good balance in that. It should not be possible everywhere, because it will be too expensive, but if it has to, then it is also important to share costs fairly. The question then is whether what is going to work is going to work, especially for those municipalities that are a little smaller, which have big other challenges, for example when it comes to their housing stock that also needs to be preserved. I think we should look at this much more comprehensively. I therefore call on the Minister to seek other solutions with others. Can't the percentages go down? Shouldn't there also be a better cap in euros at the maximum cost? Is it also possible, for example, to see whether the costs cannot be spread out much more in years? In my view, there are many ways to better organise this, all the more so since I think we should also look at it in conjunction with other costs that are to come. Much has already been said about the importance of making the new building more sustainable, but indeed, the biggest challenge is still in existing construction. There's gonna be a lot of public money going there, too. So would the Minister like to discuss this in an integrated way with other levels of government, the municipalities and the provinces, in order to achieve the fairest possible cost distribution, also in view of the importance that it cannot be too expensive? I have another point I want to make in relation to the cost allocation. A lot has been said about it. Now there are many closed systems in the Netherlands, where the generation and use of energy, for example, takes place within one company. They are exempt from all kinds of taxes. The question is whether this is fair in view of all the costs that we as a society are going to incur in the energy transition. Shouldn't those kinds of closed systems also be involved in charges that will allow you to distribute the lusts and burdens of the energy transition a little more fairly? This law is important, but it is still rather limited. It's actually more recovery than acceleration. We also know from the Minister, who has an extensive legislative agenda, that there are still quite a lot of other laws to come. The Heat Act has already been mentioned. There will be an Energy Act and a Law on wind energy at sea. The Mining Act needs to be amended. And hopefully there will be a climate law. I would find it quite interesting to hear at this stage of the Minister how he looks at that network of laws. What coherence is in it? Is there a certain hierarchy in it? Can he tell us a little bit more about how he intends to set up this legislative agenda? As I said, the letter of amendment tabled yesterday improves some things. I am asking whether there are any issues that the Minister had doubts as to whether he wanted to bring them into this law, and which he then decided to transfer to another law. Couldn't we have put a little more acceleration into this law on a number of parts? In this context, I have another follow-up question in relation to the need to negotiate a second climate and energy agreement. We're gonna be negotiating at five tables. There's a lot to talk about. In preparation for this, five transition paths have been officially explored. They have been made available to many parties who have sat at the table, but not yet to the House of Representatives. I have already asked: can we, as a Chamber, receive these transition paths so that we can follow the discussions properly? I ask the Minister to agree to share these with the Chamber. The letter of amendment also contains changes to the single malfunction reserve. That too is a very technical term. That's what roofs are for, sometimes permanent when it comes to masts. A general measure of governance also allowed certain exemptions to be granted. Why is this important? Then we just have to look back at a very recent major power failure at Diemen, which unfortunately also led Tata to stop. That's where a case came from. Decisions have been made on existing legislation. TenneT would invest more than 7 billion in infrastructure to prevent such malfunctions. Now I would like to have a guarantee from the Minister that this law will prevent us from spending such a large amount in order to improve a very small piece of security of supply. In that case, the business interests of one company are likely to outweigh the social importance of an enormous amount that we would have to spend extra. Can the Minister clarify that for a moment? The ACM has played a role as a supervisor in this regard. When we look at the market organisation and the disputes that arise about this, I wonder whether the ACM is sufficiently equipped with the existing and these new rules to look not only at the consumer interest and the commercial interest of a company, but also at the social costs that may result in a certain choice. Things are being passed on to the collective, which means that the citizens are once again burdened with extra costs. The letter of amendment also contains a passage allowing system operators to develop drinking water activities. That sounded a bit strange to me, but maybe there is a logical reason for it. Does it have anything to do with the transportation of steam? Can the Minister explain this? Is he prepared to amend this if this element has been accidentally incorporated into the law? Like Mr Jetten, I am asking a few questions about electric driving, also because this law is going to require that binding EU agreements on electric charging are introduced automatically in the Netherlands. That's good. We also know from local drivers and companies that there is a need for much more clarification and encouragement of installing charging posts. Can you indicate to the Chamber, if necessary, after consultation with your colleague, who I believe is primarily concerned with, what time is it within which we, as a Chamber, can be clear about the policy that the cabinet intends to pursue in this respect? At what rate will a general measure of governance be submitted in this respect? For the sake of clarity, I agree with the questions that have been asked about transparency. We also attach great importance to this. Relevant questions have now been asked. Finally, I have a call. Others have spoken about this too. We are facing a huge transition in many areas. It's about how we produce things, how we transport those products, but also ourselves, how we live and work. A lot really has to change. There's a lot on the docks, but there's a lot more to negotiate. The Minister has already indicated that we are going to build an implementation organisation that will do so in the coming years, up to 2030 or even 2050. I hope that the cabinet will learn from major projects: large transitions that we have experienced as a society in the past. I'm thinking about the Delta Works, but I'm also thinking about the route around Space for the River. I am referring, among other things, to the way in which this has been carried out in an integral way, while there has been a great deal of attention for the support base. How do we take people? How do we inform them? How do we make sure they're compensated and taken? I ask the Minister to include this in all the discussions he is having in the coming months to speed up the energy transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u128	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren, also on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr. Chairman. A few brief points in addition to my colleague's glowing speech. The whole of the Netherlands is now aware of the fact that we need to bring down the use of Groningen gas as soon as possible, but consumers have of course been working on it for a long time, with a world of campaigns; everyone probably remembers them. Also this February there is the Warm Sweater Day again, where traditionally the energy spokesmen, Mrs. Mulder looks my way; we have been in front of it together in front of it a warm sweater. I would like to congratulate this Minister for sending a very clear signal to the business sector using Groningen gas, as well as to consumers earlier. We have to go down there too. Another method of reducing the use of Groningen gas is to remove the connection obligation, starting in the new building. I tabled a motion on this issue for the first time in 2015, which was adopted, and then in 2016, with the request to the government to implement it. I am incredibly pleased that we can deal with this today, in any way, whether with an amendment or an initiative law. We could perhaps also jointly do the amendment, or all of us the initiative law, to ensure that this is settled. The amendment removes the obligation to connect new buildings. This saves costs for society and for Groningen, and it brings us a step closer to the climate and energy goals. Then the closing cost of Groningen gas. Instead of people getting congratulations and flowers, some people have to pay €600 for that themselves. The colleague of the VVD has also pointed this out. We took a look at that. Two years ago it was actually €0 for all network operators if you wanted to close. Those amounts have gone up for me unpredictableally. That is why the motion, which was not adopted at the time, but for which there is perhaps more support now, to ask the Minister: can we do something about it? Either you have to socialize that cost, or they really have to go to a fairly low rate. Because you have to reward greeners and you have to tax the people who pollute step by step and pay the costs. Then a gas ceiling. From this minister I would like to be sure that if we reduce the production of gas in Groningen, that does not mean that then in all other places with gas that is a bit between Norwegian quality and Groningen quality, the gas tap will suddenly be fully opened. People in those areas have that impression. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister that, for this reason, no licences are renewed, new licences are issued or old dormant permits are resurrected. Then we have made an amendment on safety. Maybe it's unnecessary, but I'd like to hear that from the Minister. The previous law stated that safety was also an aspect in the distribution of gas and gas networks. That element has been deleted. Perhaps there is a technical explanation for this, but we have not been able to find it. We have therefore included this, to be sure, because the distribution and distribution of gas is of course not entirely without danger. Mr. Chairman. I will end with a compliment to the government, because the government agreement states that there will be no new permits for land gas extraction. The Minister has already told me that he will show us exactly where these new permits will not come from. I would like to know from the Minister when that is, because I am getting a lot of mail and colleagues will also have it from people who are worried that they will indeed be looking for new, extended or extensive gas under land. Those were my brief points on the subject of gas. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u130	Thank you, Mrs Van Tongeren. I am going to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we are to ensure that we have clean, green energy in the future, then we must accelerate the energy transition. Future generations are obliged to stop predatory construction on Earth and to reduce CO emissions significantly. For this, we should not only invest in the generation of renewable energy. We must also invest in our networks and the storage of energy. A supergrid needs to be developed on a European scale. In the villages, neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, the net needs to be made smarter and heavier in order to handle locally produced energy properly. This requires a great deal of investment capacity. I have the following questions to the Minister. How do we do that? Shouldn't we go see if we can increase investment capacity? It is a good thing that the law allows cross participation of TSOs, but shouldn't we look further? Are you prepared to present to the Chamber how additional capital can be raised by and for the network companies? For example, allow minority participation of pension funds in the network companies. Pension funds have deep pockets and are looking for stable, long-term investments. Would you like to investigate this widely and thoroughly and inform the Chamber about it? Mr. Chairman. The investment capacity we have must be used effectively. The energy transition is in a chaotic phase. We do not yet know exactly where and from which sources energy will be generated. Look at the coal power stations. Ten years ago, they were considered indispensable, but now we want to get rid of it. Or look at the gas plants that are placed in mothballs. We must avoid investing in the networks which are not necessary afterwards. The PvdA believes that using all techniques and optimal network management to maximise the existing network capacity should first be used. We need to avoid over-dimension of the grid. Furthermore, investment must only be made if it is really inevitable. For example, the 380kV line between the Eemshaven and Groningen; more groups called for attention to be paid to this. The plans to increase were made at the time it was foreseen that three mega-electric power plants would be built in the Eemshaven. One of them was canceled. The second, the NUON multi-fuel plant, is standing still. And the RWE coal power plant is on the nomination for closure. Is it necessary to increase the network on that route at the moment? I realize that a lot of offshore wind energy will probably land in the Eemshaven from the sea, but isn't it better to take it off via a direct current? Is the costly investment in a 380kV AC power supply really needed? The planning procedure is now almost complete, but isn't it better to put the realisation on hold? Is it not wise to take as much time as possible to see if that capacity is really needed? Can efficient network management buy time to wait for better, less radical alternatives? The inhabitants of North Groningen, who are already heavily affected by gas extraction, will be grateful to you if this serious intervention is averted in their environment. Mr. Chairman. I come to the demarcation between what we leave to the domain of the market and what belongs to the domain of the government and the government-NVs. The cabinet believes that the energy transition can only be successful if it is left to the market. It must ensure innovation and competitive prices. Public network operators and network companies are given a role as facilitator. They should primarily ensure a reliable network. Network companies are no longer there for energy saving or loading posts. We do not share that unconditional belief in the market. Public and commercial interests are not always fully combined. That is why, at the moment when the market is failing and does not play the role of initiator, I want network companies to be able to play a solid role in this. Now the law on paper provides for that too. In the event that the market fails, network companies are allowed to jump into the hole. They may then start experimenting themselves or be assigned a temporary task. But how do we prevent this from becoming a dead letter? In what way can the Minister guarantee that the network companies will actually be given the space? How is unnecessary bureaucracy avoided? Is it not better to opt for a system of ex post verification rather than prior approval? Is it not better to ensure that network companies can operate quickly and effectively as energy supplies become more and more dynamic? I'd like a reflection from the Minister's side. The PvdA wants the law to be reviewed over a number of years and also wants to be kept informed annually of the way in which questions from network operators for experimental space have been met or rejected. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Although I believe that the network companies should be given experimental and investment space, I believe that this should be regulated transparently and clearly delineated from public tasks. Cross-subsidisation should be avoided. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the wiring. A number of groups have already paid attention to this. The desires of the electricity network, the high voltage network apply equally to all Dutch. Is it fair, then, to have the charges and costs of cabling down on a limited number of inhabitants, namely the inhabitants of municipalities or provinces where the wiring takes place? This is extremely unfair in the eyes of the PvdA Group. In my view, where there is a need for wiring, all electricity users must contribute equally to this. Nor should this be partially deposited with the municipalities and the provinces concerned. If you're gonna socialize that cost, you're gonna have to do it through network charges. Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendments. The PvdA has previously tabled two amendments aimed at phasing out coal-fired power stations. There's a dilemma there. The coalition agreement seems to set a far-reaching objective for phasing out coal power stations, but a coalition agreement does not have the force of law. That is the reason for maintaining the amendments for the time being. This could be different if the Minister promised to regulate by law the phasing-out of coal power stations, as is currently envisaged in the coalition agreement. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. Is this law the end? No, in several ways that is not the case. The law is nothing more than a step. There are still a lot of steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now turn to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u133	Thank you, Mr President. It is good that we are discussing today the amendment of the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. This law deals, among other things, with the experimental space and the definition of the tasks and space of our network operators. The Minister has sent a further change to the House of Representatives. We are also talking today about removing the obligation to connect to gas from new construction, which almost all groups in the House of Representatives have wanted for a long time, and about existing construction. For this cabinet, solving the huge problems in Groningen is the top priority. This Minister will have to do everything in his power to further reduce gas extraction. Dwellings from gas extraction contribute to this. I see that not only in this Chamber there is a great deal of support for this, but also with our local people. They also have an eye for that, like our alderman in Schagen. We all know many examples in this Chamber. This solidarity with Groningen and the recognition that the problem in Groningen is a national problem that we need to solve together is the starting point for the CDA. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the removal of the gas connection obligation for new construction and the possibility of gas-free existing construction. I would therefore like to thank the authors of the amendments for their efforts. The CDA would like to see new construction only exceptionally connected to gas, as proposed in our amendment. It is necessary for the long term to switch to other energy sources for heating our homes. The green gas is expected to offer opportunities for this, but may only be used in a limited way. Perhaps it could even be better used for our industry. Mr. Chairman. The minister's predecessor didn't want to go that far. He proposed an amendment to the Heat Act which extended the exceptions for the connection of new construction to the connection obligation. On the other hand, I understand the reasoning of the Minister and the Council of State that households need to be protected and therefore have adequate facilities available. Mrs Van Tongeren's amendment states that financial reasons do not support the integration of new buildings. In the amendment tabled by Mr Jetten, myself and the coalition colleagues, social costs are now a basis for connecting to gas. I myself think that social costs, among other reasons, could be a basis for connecting to gas. That is why I am not ruling that out at the moment, but it should really be the exception to the rule. Mr. Chairman. The amendment also includes a ministerial arrangement. Is the Minister prepared to send this arrangement to the Chamber so that we can see with each other what it looks like? And is the Minister also prepared to evaluate the implementation of this scheme after two years and to discuss that evaluation here in the House of Representatives? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the role of the network manager and the network company. The system operator shall perform the statutory tasks laid down in the law and the AMvBs. In general, the network operator and the network company are a holding company. The previously discussed Law STROOM and the present Act contain a compromise between the energy suppliers and the network operators as to the job definition of the activities carried out by network companies. The Minister has sent us a letter of amendment on this matter. In the interest of the energy transition, I support the fact that provinces and municipalities want to play a very active role. The market sometimes fails. In addition, the problems in Groningen and the climate problems also require us to make haste. The question is whether the network company takes this role or whether this can be better done by another public undertaking. For example, I had to think of the example of HVC. This company, with government shareholders, participates in the deep geothermal project in the Westland. What possibilities does the Minister see for the Empire, municipalities and provinces to invest in the energy transition through public funds, such as in heat networks or geothermal projects? What is the role of Invest-NL and of EBN, on which we also adopted a motion last week? Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants a level playing field. Of course, we do this by some demarcation in the role of network companies. At the same time, this definition should provide sufficient scope for future developments. Does the Minister have the impression that this can be done in this way? Does the proposed amendment offer sufficient certainty to market participants? Mr. Chairman. During the examination of the STROOM Act, I tabled an amendment which sets out the separate accounts of the system operator. This amendment in part No. 24 (Room 34199) has been adopted. To what extent has the Minister considered including this amendment in the present legislative proposal? The CDA wants companies, as well as consumers, to understand and understand what costs are incurred with a tailor-made connection. Does the Minister share this and is he going to take care of it? I have an amendment to this effect, but I await the Minister's reply first. Mr. Chairman. With yesterday's letter of amendment, an exception to a single malfunction reserve is placed in an AMvB. For example, there is a great deal of certainty that transport and electricity are insured, except for certain exemptions. We would like to have a look at this. Is the Minister prepared to hang the AMvB? Would the Minister like to send the ACM's opinion on this to the Chamber for the purposes of the examination of the AMvB? Mr. Chairman. Previously, I also tabled an amendment on the reporting of power failures by grid operators. Has the Minister considered making these reports legally mandatory? Why didn't that happen? I also have an amendment to this effect. Mr. Chairman. Then there has been a lot of discussion about the wiring during the treatment of the Wet Stream. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. I think that some contribution from local authorities is justified, because this is also a local consideration. Otherwise everyone would ideally want to put everything under the ground and then we have to deal with a huge increase in all costs. I don't think that's what we want here, not even the SP for the people with a tighter scholarship. So we have to see how we can optimise that. A nice example of this I heard from our deputy from the province of Gelderland Jan Jacob van Dijk. Together with the municipality and Rijk he took action at Apeldoorn. Is the Minister prepared to enter into the discussion in what way provinces and municipalities together can fulfil their role in this wiring, so that it is also acceptable to the municipalities, our local people? Mr. Chairman. The CDA used building-related funding in the coalition agreement, precisely because everyone should be able to participate in the energy transition. It must not just be something that affects a number of people, but what affects us all. It is not just about costs, but also about their benefits. When does the Minister come forward with a more detailed approach to this issue? For the energy transition we need very much the support of our residents. This could help. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the rising water level. As a land by the sea, we know that it is important to protect you from rising water levels. I also know that CO needs to be reduced in order to prevent the water from rising further. This not only affects us here in the Netherlands, with all our knowledge and skills about what you can do about it. We call it adaptation measures with a good word. We have a great deal of knowledge and expertise in this area. We can help the rest of the world, but we can help ourselves. I want us to do that in a good way. I must say that it hurts me very much if the PVV group of Syrians who had a good time in their own country but had to flee to our country because of the war there, put here as looters. It hurts me that the PVV Group in the Chamber is putting people who are forced to flee because of war away as a population group. That's all I want to say. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with a welcome announcement. It will not have escaped you, but the SGP exists for 100 years this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u136	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u137	It's not ready yet. It's in life and well-being April 24th. We're gonna pay attention to it. But when preparing for this debate, I suddenly realized that it was in the middle of time that there was plenty of work on power supplies. A power grid was rolled out. Provinces were going to invest in the construction of cables and the creation of energy companies. And the natural gas grid dates back to the time that the SGP existed for about 40 years. That was not set up on that occasion, as you can see, but it is a nice coincidence. At least I thought so. I also always like to say that in its first party programme the SGP was called "Principal Programme," which was then, and sometimes also called "Principal Programme," the responsibility of the government for air, water and soil. In other words, if you want to have a primal environmental party, you have to be with the SGP. That has everything to do with the realization that you bear responsibility for God's creation. That's what determines your choices. That has consequences and that gives direction to the choices you make. But there are also other things, just the practical considerations, which lead us to support the proposal as it stands. This is because we must not depend on Russian gas or on unstable regions in the Middle East for our fuel supply. We are also spending billions on importing these fuels, because that is the downside of investment in the transition. Moreover, it is all the more important that we do not want to leave the Groningers in the cold either. We have experienced and felt this increasingly in recent years. Mr. Chairman. With the necessary sustainability of our energy supply, we are once again at a turning point. Central is becoming decentralised and consumers are going to supply energy themselves, ideally. It's not easy, especially if we don't want the power to go out every once in a while and the energy bill to go out. A careful build-up with a long-term perspective is needed. The proposal before us is therefore of great importance. It provides, inter alia, a clear division of roles for network operators, network operators and market players. As I said, the SGP can support the main thrust of the proposals, with a few questions. An important aspect is the relationship between network companies and their public shareholders and market players. The government must facilitate the market in such a way that companies flourish and take their social responsibility, including in the energy transition. In this context, I would like to mention a few points. For a consistent policy it is good to go back on the division law and the group ban. The energy infrastructure is in public hands and must be business-decoupled from energy production, trade and supply to prevent commercial risks for grid operators and for better competition in the energy market. The transition to a sustainable, more decentralised energy supply means that network and energy supply will be much more connected. That is not wrong in itself: better demand control and energy storage to handle power surges than the construction of thick, expensive cables. Good cooperation between network operators and market players is therefore very important. Network operators have the data and the expertise, market players have more inventiveness. We must use them both, but we must not forget the original idea behind the ban. The Authority Consumer & Market indicates that network operators can borrow under very favourable conditions due to the presence of network operators. Network operators can benefit from the knowledge of network operators. This can deter potential competitive market players, which does not provide sufficient ground for market forces and may lead to significant innovations and, in any case, to sharp prices. The SGP is therefore in favour of a clear demarcation of the area for network companies, so that market players know where they stand and can seize their opportunities. In the explanatory memorandum to the letter of amendment, the Minister set out some principles for the division of roles. That's excellent. The question is what is the legal status of this. How hard is the Minister going to lift these principles? I'd like a response to that. I'll come back to the group ban. Network companies are allowed to make use of the energy exchanges in this cabinet. According to the ACM, energy trading within a network company would be in breach of the group ban. Isn't it the energy fairs mentioned in the law? Isn't it? How's that? Then the point of the smart grids. Network operators indicate that, through the investment plan, they can indicate how to avoid costly grid increase via smart grids, but that they do not have the legal option to opt for smart grids instead of grid increase. I can't imagine that. I would like to have an explanation of that. Is that right? Or is that room actually there? Network companies would like to invest more in smart grids. It is precisely from the business community that it is indicated that companies can provide flexibility services and that network companies can buy them. These include the adjustment and adjustment of decentralised production units, demand management and energy storage. Several companies are already active in the energy trade. What should the role of network companies still be if the market is already picking up on this? How does the Minister see that? Then the loading posts. The government chooses to give network companies every opportunity to invest in the construction and management of loading posts. I have a few questions. In the letter of amendment, the Minister clearly states what principles he applies. I quote: "Network companies should facilitate the market or temporarily shape it as long as private parties do not or are unable to do so or are unable to do so." That is an excellent starting point. I see that several market players are already working on loading posts. How, then, is an unspecific role for network operators in the construction of loading posts to be consistent with the above-mentioned principle? Here you should be careful, because you have to hit the picket poles very well, you don't want to get bogged down in endless procedures. Does the Dutch line fit in with the European Commission's Clean Energy Package, which explicitly requires a role for market players? Isn't it better to regulate the distribution of roles in the AMvB with regard to the construction and management of loading posts? Maybe that's a nice escape. I come to the energy saving advice. The Minister wants to give network companies the opportunity to set up advisory services through AMvB. The nature and extent should be limited and temporary, he writes. I would like to ask for further clarification on this point. Several market players are already giving energy saving advice. In the Minister's view, when should network companies be given a role or not? Finally, the gas connection obligation, the obligation to connect houses and buildings to the gas network. It is time to remove that obligation. If we want to speed up the sustainability of energy supply, we need to stop connecting new houses and buildings to the gas grid. There are plenty of alternatives, starting with insulation, heat pumps, electrification and heat grids. And so there are other things that are also sometimes under investigation. Mr Van Tongeren has put things on edge with her own initiative proposal. She is not here for a moment, but she will undoubtedly listen breathlessly now, because I would like to congratulate her on that. I'm doing that now. That's a little inappropriate, Mr. Chairman; I confess guilty. But I will not be able to take part in the separate debate on this later, and I am committed to expressing my appreciation and congratulating her on her commitment. Despite our sympathy, the SGP had some doubts about its proposal. If there is no gas connection obligation, there will be major consequences. It won't be as simple in all places. As she points out, however, unfair costs are no reason to make an exception, even if the gas network is around the corner. Therefore, the SGP is more in favour of the coalition parties' amendment, and I would just like to say that it gives local government more room to opt for the gas connection as a second or possibly even a third choice in a disproportionate cost. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. In any case, it is important that it becomes part of the present proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u138	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Are you going to receive the compliments for Mrs. Van Tongeren, Mr. Van der Lee?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u139	That's exactly what I wanted to do. Thank you to the SGP for those compliments. I'll transfer them. I'll also pass on the questions. But on one other point I have a question for Mr Bishop. This concerns his argument about the charging posts. I'm tasting something in there that worries me a bit. Look at what happened under the current legislation. I already mentioned this morning it was also in Het Financieele Dagblad (Financial Journal) that Allego, the company that set up Alliander, is now doing so well that Alliander himself says: I just bring it to the market, then the market can produce it further. That sounds good in itself. I hope you do not want this law to make this type of development, which is already possible, impossible again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u140	No. That is a very good question, and it is also a very valid one. But the background to my question on that point is: have we defined the issues, the responsibilities and the spaces sufficiently clearly vis-à-vis those network companies and the market players? If there is room for manoeuvre, I would like to hear from the Minister, Mr Delors, to continue to be innovative and initiating in this area, then I have no objection to that, because the path outlined in the example you have just set is exactly what needs to be done. But it may also be that market players themselves come up with innovative ideas. Then a network company doesn't have to be in there anymore, I'd say. I would therefore like to ask for clarification on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u141	I can follow that argument, but I am concerned that, if we clarify this in such a way that everything is closed down, we are going to create obstacles to innovation, whether from the market or from the network operator or a network operator. I therefore hope that this is not the intention of the SGP and I also understand that this is not the intention of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u142	Yeah, we're basically on the same page there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u143	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You have often heard me say here that the energy transition is the greatest challenge of our century. The transition from fossil to clean fuels, consisting of interacting large-scale economic, environmental, social and institutional impacts, is a huge challenge and can only succeed if everyone in the country and, frankly, outside the country joins forces. Today we are talking about an important part of the progress of the energy transition and how best to shape it. Although the amendment of the Electricity Act and the Gas Act is a technical and complex story, it is a crucial step to remove existing barriers to the energy transition and to make the Electricity Act future-proof. This is necessary, because the current law is almost twenty years old and dates back to a time when the use of gas was still a matter of course, with all the consequences of that, which the Groningen in particular experience daily. We discussed this separately earlier, and we shall soon be discussing it again. Today we are talking about the future, for example how we make ourselves less dependent on gas, not only with the problems of Groningen in mind but also with regard to the agreements in the Paris climate agreement. We didn't make those appointments for nothing. It is a broad wish in this Chamber and in our country to switch to more renewable energy sources. The energy market is on the move. That makes sense, because the energy transition is, as has been said, the subject of the future. Everyone wants to be a part of that. It is not for nothing that both public and private parties are competing for a role in this market. In addition, the network operator, who is responsible for the actual transport of gas and electricity to Dutch households, has a central role to play. Mr. Chairman. I understand the concerns of market players about the role of network companies. They do not want them to engage in commercial activities with regulated profits from the network operator. That could disrupt the market and slow down the energy transition. On the other hand, the concern of the network operators, who feel that the law is too delimiting their tasks. On the contrary, they want a greater role in accelerating and facilitating the energy transition. That is all the more reason to make the present changes to the law so that we define, clarify and define the tasks of all parties involved as much as possible. You will not be surprised that the VVD believes that the development of new ideas in the energy transition should be left to the market as much as possible. As far as we are concerned, the role of network companies is focused on the regulated network management and facilitating the transition with relevant and useful knowledge that they possess. This allows network operators and municipalities to make smart choices in connection building and avoid higher social costs. Of course, smart cooperation between municipalities, market players and network operators is needed, but as far as the VVD is concerned, the network operators are not supposed to develop new tasks, products or ideas as a matter of course. This division of roles stands or falls with the assumption that market players assume their responsibilities in this transition. Should that not prove to be the case, then the road can only be cleared for network companies to jump in temporarily. The VVD looks forward to the general measure of governance to be received which lays down the rules to ensure this. Mr. Chairman. I do now have a number of questions for the Minister. Could the Minister perhaps give a tip of the veil on how this guarantee will be arranged, for example on the front, before network companies actually take up their task? How is it found that market players had left this behind? What criteria is the Minister considering, for example? And how is the temporality of the experiment designed at the front? How is it monitored during the experiment, for example whether the market can now take this up? Mr Bishop has just mentioned the example of the loading equipment and loading infrastructure market. It has now developed into a mature market with competition and sufficient market players. It seems to me that here I see a discrepancy between the present law and the government agreement and its objectives. On the one hand, I think we say in the coalition agreement that the market players are in the lead. And in the law, we say it's also a primary task of the network companies. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The shareholders of the network companies have the important task of assessing whether a public undertaking should remain active in the market, or whether it may be time to reduce a particular activity. I wonder how the Minister sees this. Is there enough specific expertise and knowledge available to the shareholders to make that assessment? Or is it designed in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u145	I have another question for the colleague of the VVD Group. It is right to insist that the energy transition is the biggest challenge we face. The VVD also always insists on the importance of innovation. Now there is a difference in perspective when it comes to innovation and its rendering, between the market and a public company, which works in the long term and also gives a different financial reality. I regret that the VVD seems to emphasise that innovation should mainly come from the market, while it should be done for long-term investment in order to be ready in time for all these innovations. I also think it is very good that, for reasons of speed and because of the scale of the issue, a little more flexibility is being created.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u146	Thank you to Mr Van der Lee for this question, which gives me the opportunity to clarify this. I, too, absolutely believe that innovation and acceleration of the energy transition can also come from the network companies. I believe that the present law, including the letter of amendment, now offers sufficient scope for network companies to take on tasks as well if they find that something is not being picked up when it is very necessary to speed up or keep the transition going. That's very important. Hence my questions to the Minister about how we define it at the front and monitor it with each other during the process. Because you would like to see, at the moment when market players want and can jump in, the network companies focus on a different development or innovation. So I don't think GroenLinks and the VVD are very far apart on this. I only think that this is fully guaranteed by the way in which it has now been designed, with the frameworks and the questions I have just asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u147	Thank you for this answer, which is also a clear nuance. At the same time, it is a bit ironic that GroenLinks is now arguing for less regulation and the VVD for more regulation. I therefore hope that the VVD will take another look at the amendment tabled by GroenLinks. I also hope that the Minister will include the VVD in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u148	If I may respond to that: less regulation for network companies could automatically mean less market space. And that is, of course, the balance that we are trying to find with each other. So less regulation on the one hand could mean more limitation and regulation on the other. As far as we are concerned, it is very important for every party involved to know what its responsibility is and to do a great deal of work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u149	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u150	I was already working on that. Then I've saved two seconds! Everyone's gotta get to work. In this context, I would also like to quote the appeal from the 55 organisations and companies to the Rotterdam city council. They ask the Rotterdam College to do real work on climate policy. I think we can only agree wholeheartedly with that. Can the Minister briefly comment on the talks with local authorities on the energy transition and its role in it? Part of removing the barriers to the energy transition is the change in the obligation to connect to the gas network, or rather the removal of the obligation to supply new buildings with a gas connection. In the coming years, a small 60,000 new houses are expected to be built each year, which no longer need to be automatically connected to gas. That is a good intention of this cabinet, but as far as this coalition is concerned, this can be done more quickly than in the four years that the cabinet envisages, and I believe that this need is being shared more widely. Hence our amendment to this point, which replaces the right to gas with the right to heat. For example, property owners don't have to pay for a facility that we all want and have to get rid of. I would also like to point out that, as far as we are concerned, the concept of new construction is widely interpreted. This also concerns new construction after degradation or transformation areas. This joint amendment builds on the amendment tabled by my predecessor in the VVD, Mr Bosman, and the previous amendment tabled by his colleague Mr Van Veldhoven, which Mr Jetten just mentioned. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we shouldn't just focus on new buildings. In the coming years, the market for the sustainability of the existing housing stock will also be gradually launched. For example, in certain areas, the gas grid where it stays can be used usefully for future heat supply, for example with sustainable gases, because it is too expensive to replace it. As expertise and experience increase in the construction sector, costs will decrease and the sustainability market may be more on its own. That is exactly the liberal way in which the VVD wants to shape the energy transition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u151	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-6.u152	I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour. After that, we will keep the work in order, and then we will continue this debate around 2.30 p.m. Then the Minister will have more room to prepare himself for the questions that have been asked.
