ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	We continue in one move with the following topic: the thirty-member debate on the undercurate of the care institution Careyn. We have six speakers from the Chamber and the first speaker is Mrs Dijksma from the Labour Party. Like everyone else, she has three minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. We requested this debate a few months ago. This was about care institution Careyn, a care institution that has been under enhanced supervision of the inspection for a long time and which had actually been set a deadline before, where the inspection said: if before that time the matter is not in order, we have a very big problem. What's my surprise? Eventually the deadline is not met and the inspection gives the care institution another year to put things in order. Mr. Chairman. The risk of a debate like this is that people who do their stinking best every day, for example at this healthcare institution, think it's about their commitment or about the quality of the work they do. And I think it's in place to say that at least that's not what I'm talking about in this debate. The nursing home care and the care in general deserve to be just in order. Especially now that the Chamber has chosen widely to invest a lot of extra money again, it is of the utmost importance that there is no doubt about the quality of care. The inspection, with the way in which it monitors and maintains, can also play a very important role. At the moment when the inspection actually shifts a deadline every time and warns again for the last time and then fails to deliver and doesn't bite, I say with all my experience I've had in working with inspections, that with that you're chopping the axe at the root of your own credibility. We can't have that. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. Following site visits in 2015, the inspection found that Careyn is not okay. The quality and safety of care were at stake. We are now almost three years away, and the situation is still not in order. That must not be the case until 7 November. How can it be that clients have to wait over three years to get proper care? What does it say about the inspection that she has warned Careyn several times over time and that it is not in order over and over again? How many deadlines does the inspection actually set? What is the value of a deadline or a clue if it can shift again? Is 7 November 2018 a deadline now? Or is there gonna be a new one? On 1 April this year, all the files should have been in order. My question to the Minister is: are they now in order? Does the Minister see any reason in this case to reconsider the way in which the inspection organises its enforcement work? Finally, is he prepared to update the enforcement framework of the inspection? In fact, I believe that there can be a smarter enforcement strategy than the one we have seen coming through here. Because there's one thing you can see: a lot of people don't understand why an inspection gives such an important warning, so in my terms barks, but doesn't bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. "Careyn has become a financial organization. It doesn't have to do with care anymore." Those aren't my words, they're the words of one of the executives at Careyn's. A caremoloch, who in almost 30 nursing homes has to provide good care. In the many debates we have had on Careyn, a very clear picture emerges: delusion of grandeur, overpaid drivers, takeovers and so on. Careyn fits into the well-known picture, in the list Meavita, Vestia, Inholland. Organisations that have an important public task but are completely screwed up and ruined by market thinking and commercial cowboys. How's the minister looking at this? Doesn't he agree that organizations like Careyn have simply become too big? Mr. Chairman. Careyn's problems have been going on for many years now. Indeed, the first indication of the inspection was already followed by abuses in 2015. The situation has not improved in all these years. It is still difficult to find new staff and care for clients is still inadequate. Last week in the debate on nursing homes, we talked about under-employment, the use of temporary agency workers and reducing the number of hours of care rather than investing now that extra money is available. Family members and residents wonder how in God's name it is possible that people are still in their pajamas or, worse still, in their own stool at 11 o'clock and sometimes even at 12 o'clock. That's unbelievable, isn't it? Didn't we think that this kind of abuse in nursing homes would be a thing of the past forever? At the moment, Careyn is working on a new organisational structure, with more responsibility for different regions. But the question is, is this gonna work? Why isn't it chosen to cut up Careyn? Why doesn't the Minister cut through all the unnecessary expenditure that doesn't go to health care? Why don't we choose real local control by putting the locations, or some locations, together in our own foundation? Without expensive management, but with a director who just cooperates. Without head office, but with employees and clients who are involved and have control. Without excess bureaucracy, but with confidence in the people who provide care. I would like to know one thing from the Minister today: why does he choose to continue muddying and not the scale reduction that benefits both Careyn's employees and clients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you. Then Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week we talked about the abuses... I had to raise this cathedral and then time started running.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	We'll take that into account. You're back to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	Last week we talked about the abuses at the care institution Thebe and today we are again talking about a care institution that does not take it so closely with the quality of care and therefore with the well-being of its residents. Since 2015 the inspection already concerns about the quality and safety of care at Careyn. It's now 2018. Many residents who lived with Careyn in 2015 are probably not there anymore. The same applies to the employees; many of them have left. As far as PVV is concerned, it takes far too long before something concrete happens at Careyn, where things haven't been going well for a long time. Residents have only been living in a nursing home for so long. They don't have three years to wait for improvement plans. Something must be done for them now. Employees indicate that care has deteriorated. I'm afraid the staff won't be able to report any more mistakes. The absenteeism is far too high. There is a roadmap for inspection visits; ai, ai, ai. Employees are instructed not to express personal displeasure. There were pee contracts; really! In 2010, we arranged another PVV proposal that would give the inspection the power to split up a healthcare institution when the quality of care is at stake. That has been carried out and made legally possible. The possibility of splitting up a care institution that has become too large has been added to the possibilities offered by the inspection. Careyn is way too big and leans towards "too big to fail," with 100 locations in 3 provinces. The care is out of order and the finances are out of order. The bureaucracy and overhead are completely out of control. The residents are the victims of this. The employees are leaving massively. I ask the Minister to encourage the inspection to split up Careyn and cut up into manageable organizations. The administrative measures imposed are far too non-binding. Some of them are also unworkable. Residents cannot be transferred to another healthcare provider. Then where are the other places? The intervention team deployed has, as it turns out, only an advisory role. That is why we are making a new proposal today. For some time now, there has been a desire to break through the career of dysfunctional managers and directors to do something about those grawling interims who bypass the WNT and hop from institution to institution. I propose that an intervention team be set up from VWS that really gets through, an intervention team from super pros, that the leadership be short-lived! As Gordon Ramsay does in his television programme War in the kitchen, Tabatha takes over in her programme Tabatha's Salon Takeover or Jon Taffer in his programme Bar Rescue. That may sound funny, but then you can really put things in order in a few weeks instead of seeing Careyn for years and years that the care is bad, that the employees leave and that the residents are the victims. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. Then Mr Slootweg of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr President. To a large extent I can actually join, up to and including Mrs Dijksma's metaphor about barking and biting. I would add a few things to that, but I would like to make a few brief comments. Residents of a nursing establishment must feel safe and be able to count on good care. Residents, as well as their relatives and friends, must be able to denounce flaws and be assured that matters will be dealt with. For this we have different mechanisms: client councils, board of directors and an inspection. In a previous debate, the Minister indicated that the current escalation ladder in his view does not require any adjustments. Yet there is now the case of Careyn. Our question is therefore whether this case has produced experiences which the Minister wants to make adjustments to that escalation ladder. We read the message of 23 March that the inspection is going to bring the entire nursing home sector into view. What is the purpose of this action, including the possibilities for action in the event of deficiencies? There was one other point that we still want to address, which has to do with the scale of organisations. In the case of Careyn, we often hear about shortcomings in the organizational culture, especially over-reorganisations. These reorganisations have caused the rapid takeovers by Careyn. A series of nursing homes and nursing homes has been brought together in one organisation. My group notes that things like a diseased organizational culture often occur in large organisations. That is why we have great hesitation about the combination of so-called economies of scale and good and safe care. That is why the CDA is very pleased with the attention paid to small scale in the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement states that the new way of working and organizing must be small-scale. How does the Minister see this? Does "small scale" mean that the Minister wants to come to a definition of this concept in talks with the sector? Does the Minister intend to set standards for this? If so, will these standards be included in the review of care functions? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Bergkamp from the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People are entitled to good and safe care at the right time. If that is at risk, action must be taken. That's what happened at Careyn's. Careyn's under curatel. We have asked written questions about this before. But I wasn't reassured when I read the Minister's answers. I hope the Minister will be able to clarify Careyn today. Mr. Chairman. In the Compliance Report we read about serious situations. Of course, as a Chamber, we should not sit on the chair of the inspection. But if none of the sites visited do properly file-forming, that sounds serious. And in answering our questions, the Minister says: "The inspection has found no acute risks for good and safe care." Can I conclude from this that there are regular risks? I thought, when I was preparing this: we're talking about a nursing home, but if you read this now with the word "care home" replaced with "hotel," would you stay there longer than one day? Mrs Agema rightly said that people depend on their stay, often feel loyal and are often also attached to the place where a nursing home is. From the point of view of customer dependency, this, frankly, gives a very worrying feeling. I am also very curious how family, clients, relatives and employees have experienced this situation. Two deadlines were given for the directions: 1 April and 7 November. Last Sunday, the first deadline was set for the designation of the client file. There is a considerable problem, because, for example, do people get the right medication if the files are wrong? Careyn's gonna be okay with this now? Did they get this clue? A further indication was then given, with many points of improvement in governance, expertise and quality. For this the deadline was set on 7 November. Careyn's gonna make it? And what if they don't make it again? What happens then? I am also curious to see how often it is possible for the inspection to give an indication that it is not being carried out and that the deadline is being postponed. I'm trying to wrap it up. We're not talking about Careyn for the first time today. I wonder what we can learn from the situation, from the case of Careyn and what other nursing homes can learn from it. Colleagues have also spoken today about scaling up. I believe you can be large and have small units at the same time, making it small-scale. But what lessons can we learn from the Careyn case to prevent us from talking about Careyn again as a room? Honestly, on the basis of the information, I expect that we are unfortunately going to talk about Careyn again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Hermans from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr President. No matter what nursing home you live in, anywhere in the country, you must be able to count on good and loving care everywhere. That can't be a coincidence. You don't have to ask for that. That's just got to be the base. I repeat it again today: fortunately, many nursing homes in the Netherlands are doing well. There the care is good, there it is safe and there is time and attention to the things that make life enjoyable. But unfortunately there are still nursing homes that sink through the ice, where the base is not in order. We can't accept that. The inspection has several instruments to intervene in this regard. We will soon be debating the extension of inspection instruments. Nevertheless, my question to the Minister is this: is the inspection instrument case well enough filled to intervene effectively in situations like this, in which nursing homes perform long-term underagely? If that is the case, is there any reluctance at the time of the inspection to deploy some of these instruments? What does the Careyn case teach us about this? Mr. Chairman. In 2016, Careyn was given a lead. Unfortunately, one year after giving that indication, the inspection had to observe that the mission in that designation was too complex and too extensive. Partly for that reason, it extended that designation for a year. The VVD Group wonders how that is possible. How can an assignment a year later suddenly be too complex? I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Mr. Chairman. Many studies show that the quality of nursing homes is largely determined by the management or management and their way of management. That is why the phrase in the government agreement on the assessment of directors on the quality improvement they achieve is also so important to my group. We must assess and reward if things are to go well, and intervene if improvement is not to be achieved. We look forward to the implementation of that sentence in the programme which the Minister will shortly be sending to the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. In general, my question to the Minister is when does he apply: enough is enough. When does the long-term and structural lack of quality improvement really force a firm intervention in a care organisation? Extreme measures are conceivable, such as replacing a driver or putting a driver next to a driver. You yourself said something about this in an earlier debate. Of course, you have to make those kinds of decisions very carefully. You shouldn't go ice cream in one night. But I repeat my question. When is it for the Minister: enough is enough? Because it has been said a few times: people only live in a nursing home for a short time and in the time they live there it must be nice and safe. If that's not for each other for a long time, we need to stand up for the residents. They deserve that, but so do the care workers in those nursing homes. And that's what all those nursing homes deserve where things just go really well. I'll finish with that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mrs Hermans only talks about the inspection in her speech. That is, of course, the point where you are already too late, namely when the inspection is going to intervene. How does it look back on the years leading up to the chaos that has arisen, with economies of scale, acquisitions, market thinking and remote control? How does the VVD look back on this with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	That is a fair question from Mr Hijink. Especially in the specific case of Careyn, the areas of care that this organisation is all concerned with have become very broad. We are talking about maternity care, youth health care, care for the elderly, nursing homes, home care, and you name the whole series. I think the real focus on care for the elderly, at home and in the nursing home, is a very good choice to really deliver the quality of care that we consider so important to each other. I think Careyn's made that choice by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u17	Yeah, that's one of the parts: don't want to get too wide. But getting too big is of course a problem. Look at the number of nursing homes. That's almost 30. Then you will indeed get what Mrs Agema just said, that there should be protocols in case there is an inspection. Then you must have protocols for this and protocols for that. In the care of course, you lose contact between the workplace and the board. Then you lose contact between the client and the people who ultimately make the decisions. That has everything to do with scaling up. So my question is whether the VVD is also willing to step away from the idea of scaling up. And is she also in favour of cutting Careyn into accessible units, in smaller foundations where the people who make those decisions are also on the workplace every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u18	I agree with what Mrs Bergkamp said about this. I believe that even though you are a large-scale organization, you can still organize your care on a small scale. I think the latter is very important. This is also an important task and challenge for the future in the case of Careyn. How do you ensure that in all these different houses the space and responsibility lie with the people who work there and the manager in such a house, so that they can provide good care in direct contact with the workplace and especially with the residents and their families?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u20	The Minister has the floor, although it is for a somewhat empty room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u21	It's not supposed to be funny. Mrs Agema is the only one present for the time being. Thank you, Mr President. As the members come in, I'll get started. Thank you for the questions asked, which I can, of course, place well in the context. I would like to make a few introductory remarks and then answer the questions in a few blocks. The first block will deal with the instruments of inspection and the question whether the inspection could have used another instrument. The second block will be on how to proceed with inspection monitoring. All what-if questions about deadlines are discussed, but also the question of how to proceed with the organisation Careyn and the question of how to proceed with the instruments of inspection. So first of all about the current instruments and why the inspection came to this decision. The questions about the organisation and inspection will then be discussed under the "how to proceed" block. First of all, I would like to make a number of preliminary remarks. I would like to emphasise that this debate is about one institution, viewed by the glasses of supervision. Last week, following another report, we had the conversation with each other. I look forward to the day when we can just have the talk about the approach to nursing care, so integral about everything we do. I think this is going to strike a better balance in the debate. That's the first thing. Secondly, supervision is extremely important. We attach importance to an inspection that is alert and proactive, because supervision can help greatly in bringing the quality closer for clients who are dependent on it. But supervision is not the only instrument. I also hope that this will be reflected in the debate on the approach to nursing care. There are many more ways to steer than just through supervision, because supervision always takes place afterwards. That is a second general comment I would like to make in advance. Then I would like to say a few introductory things about the route we have taken so far. About the situation at Careyn, I sent your Chamber a letter at the end of last year; on 5 December, we looked up. I also answered Mrs Bergkamp's questions on this subject. The deficiencies were about good and safe care and led to the inspection in November 2016 to intervene with a measure. Careyn was instructed to remedy the deficiencies identified and to comply with the standards set. These shortcomings concerned in November 2016 making all client files complete and up-to-date, insufficient expertise and training among the various employees and insufficient day-to-day management of quality and safety. That was a complex and extensive assignment, for which Careyn was given nine months. During those months, the Careyn inspection kept a close eye on them. Several locations were visited. The inspection spoke with residents, relatives, the client council, the works council, employees, managers, quality nurses, the board of directors and the supervisory board. Gradually, confidence in the organisation Careyn has grown, because it was just taking firm steps. A new Management Board and a new Chairman of the Management Board were created. The Supervisory Board has been partially replaced. The workload at locations has been noticeably reduced. The employees have seen significant improvements in the framework conditions for providing care. The working environment has improved in terms of safety and exemplary behaviour. And there is management that does have an eye for the quality of care. All that happened in nine months. The urgency felt by the inspection at Careyn led us to say: we see that the good movement has been deployed, but we also see that the mission given at the time is more complex and extensive than was thought when the first indication was imposed. Not all the improvement measures put in place had been completed at that time. For example, there was a very large training course, but this was not yet completed in all parts. Another example was the control at the location. The quality of care was now better monitored, but the implementation of an integral quality management system took more time. We couldn't do that in those nine months. In view of the increased confidence of the inspection on the one hand and on the other hand the importance of a realistic deadline for the improvement mission, the inspection considered it necessary to find a new indication. Careyn has been given the time until 1 April 2018 to get the "client file" part in order. The other points of improvement relating to the expertise, the commitment of employees and the daily management of quality and safety should be completed by 7 November 2018. I give this introduction to indicate that it is not the case that nothing happened between the first and the second clue. Much has happened in the organisation, in the expertise and in the training of employees. But that's not the end of it. Then I come to block one, namely the considerations that the inspection has to do with this. What does the inspection stand for in such a trade-off? In general, the inspection raises the question of what would be the fastest and most effective way for clients to achieve safe and good care, which simply meets the standards, when an enforcement instrument should be chosen. From this point of view, the inspection has a number of choices to make. The inspection uses these measures proportionally, so always in proportion. The greater the risk for patients or clients, the heavier the measure. There are four measures. There are incentives, but they are not at issue here. They didn't fit in with the situation Careyn was in. There are also corrective measures, such as enhanced monitoring, enhanced monitoring and the administrative consultation. That type of measure was not really at issue here either, because that phase was already over. Then there are administrative measures. For example, this is a lead, as in this case. It may also be a charge under penalty or a charge under control. These types of measures are administrative measures. In this case, an administrative measure has been chosen. The final step is a measure of punishment or disciplinary action. These measures are taken, for example, against ill-functioning healthcare providers. They're not the issue here, because the case that's going on isn't criminal or anything. In short, one could say that the one-after-last drawer of measures was opened up, namely administrative measures. So there's a lead or a penalty charge. When are you going to commit what measure? An indication is used if you want to see an improvement in practice that is not possible to date with all other measures taken, i.e. lighter measures. A clue can, in a sense, contain anything. "A clue" is therefore quite a broad term. When are you gonna put in a penalty charge? You put it in the moment you want to enforce behavior. You'll notice that the driver or the organization doesn't really want that, but you still want to enforce that behavior. Then you put in a penalty charge to force that behavior. Every week that it doesn't go in a certain way, a penalty charge will be charged. An institution that is summoned, for example, to receive an indication of how to stop a particular type of care, may at the same time be burdened by periodic penalty payments. Then every week that institution hasn't stopped taking care of it, it has to pay an amount. That's a possibility, but it doesn't play here. In short, that possibility was not discussed here, because there was no governance that did not want it. There was a board that wanted to. But there's a limit to how much work an organization can do in nine months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u22	Actually, I don't think it's such a good story. I'll also explain why not. If, as an inspection, you choose, in the terms of the Minister, to open the one-after-last drawer, you must know very well what instrument you are going to work with. Then you must also consider in advance whether the deadlines you set are feasible. When you start thinking about the ride, maybe you have to give them an extra year, because they're doing a great job there, doesn't it weaken your position as an inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u23	The story wasn't finished either. I wanted to point out what the considerations were for the inspection. Again, the inspection is an independent organisation that makes its own decisions. However, I would like to explain what the underlying considerations have been. I am also trying to explain the possible alternative trade prospects. A clue is a strong sanction. Would there have been alternatives? Well, not so much to the extent that they would have been more effective and would have led more quickly to standard-compliant quality and safety care. There was no reason for a fine. There would have been a penalty charge if there was an unwilling administration, but there wasn't. I do agree with Mrs Dijksma on the first measure imposed. If you read back that measure, you will see that a comprehensive list of expectations was expressed. Looking back, I came to the lesson a little later, I think you should say that the first improvement period that the inspection provided for that list of assignments given to the organisation should have been more realistic. In a year as powerfully accomplished, it has proved too complex. That was also a question from Mrs Hermans. Then the sequel. Mrs Dijksma's tone is actually: now we have an inspection that barks but doesn't bite. The first thing I want to say is that when it comes to the gravity of the measure, this is biting. Then it's about how you do it. I just mentioned a few options. What would have happened if you had chosen one of those other options? For example, if you had added a penalty charge to the lead, would this have led to faster, more effective security, or would this have meant that you were radiating something bigger than giving a clue, whereas this would not actually have been more effective for the fastest way to safe care? One is: I agree with Mrs Dijksma that the deadline should have been more realistic. Two is: I think that the inspection at that second point has come to its conclusion in a follow-up manner, including with regard to the use of the most appropriate instrument at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u24	I am not concerned about whether the inspection has chosen the right instrument. In the end, that's what I think about the inspection. I am concerned that the inspection, if it opts for an enforcement instrument, should not show its teeth for a moment, but also, if it has set a deadline, if that deadline is not met. My point is that with this course of action we have made a huge mistake on such an important dossier, in an institution that has been under attack for many years. That is why the credibility of the inspection has been called into question, even in all the cases that may still arise. I think that's serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u25	I think that's very big words. In my view, Mrs Dijksma is concerned with the question of whether this is a correct sanction. I'm trying to explain that, given the context of the second lead, that sanction is followable. I would ask Mrs Dijksma to consider with me what an alternative would have been. Then I will quickly come to the alternatives mentioned by others in the first term. The alternative is, for example, to intervene in the organisation, as Mr Hijink and Mrs Agema suggested. I would then have to say from an organization which is indeed very large and which is not sufficiently systematic in control at the level of the individual location: split up now. This has an effect on the quality of care at that location that is hardly visible. That would therefore be a very risky undertaking. Or take the imposition of a financial penalty. To an organisation that is financially vulnerable and takes the necessary steps to impose a financial penalty on the circle, that institution will be financially weaker. In short, at this stage, at the second indication, there are not so many alternatives that lead to safe care in a faster way. I would like to agree with Mrs Dijksma on this point on the first time that the designation was imposed. A more realistic deadline would have been more appropriate. This is without prejudice to my being able to follow the choice on the second time the designation has been imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u26	The Minister asks Mrs Dijksma a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u27	Yes, Mr President, I was just about to say that this is entrapment. I would like to reply: I will not allow myself to be dragged into Pandora's box to explore what other sanctions could have been imposed by the inspection. That's not up to me. The inspection itself has chosen, in a situation where it was known that all eyes were on this dossier. It was also known that, at the time of taking such a heavy measure, there would be a date on which or no green light should be given. If you can only come up with "we'll give it another time," you're really bad at it. For example, my question was: was the deadline reached on 1 April? That would prove the right of inspection or not. So I would not just like to hear from the Minister that he agrees with me, but I would also like to hear what he is going to do on the basis of this experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u28	That's what I come up with in the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u29	I think we can reason both ways. On the one hand, you can say that the list of inspection requirements was too complicated afterwards and the deadline was too short. You can also say: it seems that at the level of locations, with a clear number of clients and employees, it is no longer possible to put things in order within nine months. Then you have a completely different problem. I can go a long way in the story of Mrs Dijksma, but the story is of course: we cannot put a colossal organization like Careyn in order within nine months. I would like to put the question to the Minister. Is the problem that the inspection went too fast? Or is it perhaps also the case that this organisation has become so large and complicated that we cannot actually improve a bad situation in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u30	That's a question about the organization. I have to choose a slightly different classification of my answer, but I would be happy to comment on it now for the sake of the debate. I understand Mr Hijink's question very well. When I look at Careyn's organizational structure, I wouldn't have thought of it as a sensible idea in this way, let me put it euphemistically. Not so much because of the size, but mainly because of the different types of work that have been tried to be housed in one organisation. That indeed makes the organization difficult to manage. That's one. Two: I think that a more realistic period of intervention should have been chosen here. The designation given to Careyn concerns, for example, the promotion of expertise of a large number of employees. If your employees all have to school because they need to, they also need to be replaced when they are trained. So there is a limit to how many times and how much expertise you can do under working time, because you have a replacement problem to solve. For that reason alone, I would have thought: had chosen a more realistic term. I also understand that not everything at that point could have been completed in the first nine months. Maybe it is a good thing that I should like to mention the block on how to proceed with this organisation, which I actually wanted to discuss a little further in my speech. Then I'll start with the questions that have been asked about the organization. Several groups have said that we need small scale, and I very much agree with that. Small scale is something other than "small is nice." As has also been said by a number of groups, you do indeed have larger institutions that are able to provide very small-scale care. This has to do with personal orientation, which has been put into the quality framework for a reason. A small-scale organisation is an organisation in which clients and their relatives know themselves, their families know themselves, in which personal care is taken into account, in which employees know each other and in which they feel they have a certain decision space at the level of the location and therefore not everything is ordered from above but they have room to make choices and they can use their professional space. That's my small-scale care. Can you do that in a larger institution? Yes, there are many settings that show that this can be done. That also complicates the debate that Mr. Slootweg is asking for. Is that normal? No, that's not so good to normalize. In fact, you have medium-sized institutions that I find less small-scale than a number of larger institutions. So I wouldn't dare start with an absolute standard for the size of the location and the institution because I know I'm not getting out in a good and responsible way. Of course, you can always prick a number, but I don't think this is sufficiently substantiated and grounded. Do you need to worry about institutions of a size of Careyn? Not so much because of the size but because of the composition of the different types of work and the complexity of their manageability, I would think that this cannot necessarily be repeated. I don't know a second Careyn this way, by the way. Then there's the question of what to do with this organization. Apart from inspection supervision, I think it is good that the organisation itself sees that the current organisational structure, although a number of things have already been rejected, does not work in this way. Steps have already been taken to bring management closer to the location and to achieve smaller units. Further steps are being taken towards further deconcentration of the organization as such. I think these are sensible steps to take. Then the nuclear option mentioned here, the splitting up. Mrs Agema rightly pointed out that splitting up was added to the instrument box of the inspection. Certainly in the context of the debate at that time, but perhaps also useful for the future, I think it is good to fill the instrument box of the inspection at all and that it is a good thing that this instrument is in it. This is without prejudice to the fact that the moment when you use such an instrument, including the justification why you do so, is not so simple. It means that you have to be able to support the quality of care within the organisation as a result of the size of the organisation. You have to be able to argue that linear connection before you take such a measure, otherwise you will of course get wet in court. Is that possible in this case? Is it true that due to Careyn's size it has not been possible to promote the expertise needed in the past? I don't think so, because it doesn't have to do with that size. It didn't happen and it's wrong because it has to be done. That is also the path that is now being taken. Does the reason why it didn't happen have to do with the size of the organization? That's hard to argue. Reorganisation on reorganisation is not helping at all. But then the question remains whether splitting up can be justified. In addition, there is the effect of a split-up measure on the quality of care. If you're going to split up an organization that was definitely not in control at that time when it comes to the control at the individual location, that's pretty creepy. We have had a number of similar incidents, for example in education, where institutions went bankrupt and tried very hard to prevent them from going bankrupt, but it had to be taken over when they went bankrupt. Now it's very terrible if you don't get an education for a day, but that's still there. A day without caring for people in a nursing home is impossible, no one can afford that. In short, it is not easy to organise such a divisional power in a good way. Maybe it can be used sometime. You could then think of transferring locations to another provider. For that, you could use that divisional power. I'm certainly not saying that you should take it out of the instrument box again because we'll never use it. I'm certainly not saying that. Please, let us keep the instrument box well filled. Maybe that power can be used properly once, but at the right time and for good reasons, well-founded, and also responsibly designed in the implementation of such a measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u31	The problem is, of course, that all the solutions that are now being sought aim to maintain the organisation as it is, with the waterhead, the excess bureaucracy and the management that exists within the organisation. If we find that this organisation has grown too much, you must also dare to take the step to reduce again. If you don't, you're gonna keep messing around. Then the mess doesn't last nine months and not a year and nine months, but as we at Careyn have seen since 2007. There has always been search for scaling, scaling, reorganising, reorganising; with a lot of misery for the people who work there and who live there. Once again, we are looking at how we can maintain the organisation and the administration without thinking about what would be the best solution if we started again. I can assure you that we will be back here in a year or two years, because the mess has still not been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u32	If what Mr Hijink says were true, I would share his concern. But if we look at what's happening in the Careyn organization right now, you'll see that it's working on deconcentration. Even support services are organised more regionally. Management's close to the location. You see just a deconcentration of the somewhat large-grown company Careyn, just to get smaller. That's different than cutting it up. In my view, we have no disagreement as to what would be a sensible destination for the Careyn organisation, namely small-scale, more personalised and care close to people organized. That's the destination that the Careyn organization has in mind. The route along which you get there, I think at the moment, is going through a imposed split-up, regardless of whether you could justify such a measure at all legally. I have taken the view that this is not conceivable in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u33	We are going to listen to Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I understand the Minister when he says that small scale is not a problem when it comes to the size, scale, number of people working there and the number of clients. But I do understand the Minister when he says: yes, where I do have a bit of a problem... I'm kind of looking for the standards we want to have with each other. The moment you start doing a variety of products, from cradle to grave, from childbirth to hospice, it may get a little too much. Would you think that we would need something of a framework of standards for what can and cannot be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u35	If I had an idea of what this framework of standards should look like, I would say: well, I'd be happy to think with you and let's brainstorm about what that might look like. I don't think it's easy to standardize it, but there are a number of other things. We have already talked about the standardization of overhead in tariffs. That may be a bit of a sidedish in this discussion, but it can be normalized. You can say: there should not be more than an X amount, or actually an X percentage, of the money that is intended for the care to go to overhead. That's normal. When it comes to personal care in the quality framework, yes, that is quite normal. Take the personnel standard we've talked about here before, two on the group. That's normal. By the way, there are all kinds of disputes about that, but that can be normalized. If you look at a lot of translation of the quality framework into the inspection/supervisory framework, that can be normalized. So I'm getting strong that we're actually doing the norming along that road pretty well and that I think it's feasible along that road as well. These are the interpretations of small-scale organised care. Small-scale organised care, that's something else -- once again -- rather than small-scale organised care. Because even within larger organizations you can organize the care really small-scale. Could you also standardize the degree of organisation of the institutions? Yes, I hesitate to go on that path because I think we're just not gonna get out of it. So can you normalize that an institution can only be active in one sector? 'Cause that's what you could get out of, for example. Then I think you would make the work impossible in a lot of organizations that really work well. I find that difficult. An organisation shall not exceed an X number of clients. That would assume that you can draw a linear link between the quality of care, the personal orientation of care and the size of the organisation. That's hard to back up. Of course, you do have codes of good governance, how internal supervision should be organised. That'll help. So I honestly think when it comes to the normalization of what we would like to see again, a translation of the starting point of small scale into what we would like to see again, that we can do quite well. In the personal orientation of the care, in the overhead component, in the funding, all that type of measures, but the normalization of the organization size as such, or the organisational structure as such, that is just not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u36	Then I do not really understand the Minister's first statement about five minutes ago. When I see where it's grown, what they're all doing, and they have to go back to the core, what's that core? And what does that look like? I would like to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u37	Yeah, I get that. I'm gonna take one jump in my answer and then I'm gonna answer it again. I hear this question coming back, not only to you, because I also belong to the SP and also to the Labour Party and the PVV. And I understand the search. How could you shape and content small scale? I do not want to say now that I cannot imagine how you could further standardize that, so that is the end of the debate. So let me take this as a homework assignment and let me combine it as a homework assignment with another question, which actually raises several groups. That is the question as to whether the instrument box of the inspection is actually properly filled. The question by Mrs Hermans, among others, and also by Mr Slootweg. Is that instrument box well filled? My impression is that it's pretty well filled. I think that the instruments and the employability of these instruments are quite broad, but I can quite imagine that the Chamber would like to see this in its fullness, and would also like to reach that judgment itself, perhaps even after discussing this with the inspection itself. So I'm going to give you a letter in which I record two elements. One element concerns the instruments of inspection. What are the instruments of inspection at the moment? And is that adequate? How does the inspection itself feel about that? Let me ask that question to the inspection itself. Do you ever lack instruments, learning from a number of cases in the past period? Two, the question of how we normalize small scale. My hesitation, once again, does not mean that this is the end of the debate, of course. So let me take that homework myself. But, of course, I do have the hesitation. At the same time, I think that, at a number of times, we are marking small scale, what we mean by that in the forms of expression for care, and we are also quite normalising. But let me also do some thinking and inventory there. Then I have a letter with those two elements. Maybe I'll make it two letters, but it's about those two elements. Then we can continue the debate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u38	I'm not against big institutions. A good example is Neighborhood care Netherlands: organized across the country in two layers, a local layer and a rural layer, and five times employer of the year. The nature of this organisation is, of course, very much the same as that of the Minister's reference to the fact that she manages one type of care, namely community care/neighborhood care. We have created the divisional power not because of organisations like Neighborhood care Netherlands, but because of organisations like Philadelphia, with 100 locations, and Meavita, with more than 100,000 patients. They combined care types with each other, closing one hole with the other. That's what we're seeing at Careyn's. If there's a loss somewhere, there's another branch that spins profits. The finances are all thrown into a pile and then one kind of care suffers under another kind of care. I heard the Minister earlier say in his speech that splitting up is not a solution here. Could the Minister perhaps reconsider that before he maintains it? That is not necessary today, but I do think that this organisation does not do well to mix care types and that splitting up is indeed designed for this type of organisation. Please do not put that option aside right away, because people and employees are at the expense of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u39	I understand Mrs Agema's argument. There are two elements in it, as in Mr Hijink's speech, which do not make this particular case easy to handle as a measure. The first is that you need to be able to justify that the size of the organisation leads to the observations made by the inspection regarding the quality. That linear underpinning is actually not so good to give. That which the inspection observes has all kinds of explanations but is not only explained by the size of the organisation. That's one thing. The second is that the practical manageability of this measure, which is now ordering split-up or rejection of a number of business lines, has a risk to the continuity of customer care. The implementation of such a measure is therefore not easy. At the same time: if you look at the organization that was created, with all these different types of work, that's an organization that I wouldn't have invented. I can go a long way with that. Let us not think of such organisations anymore, because it just doesn't turn out very well. If you look at the route that Careyn has now used as an organization, I think it is right that they opt for a smaller-scale organisation of their own. I also think it is right that they have already rejected a number of parts and then opt for regional organisation with management close to the locations. Even the support services are decentralised and deconcentrationd, while large organisations often see that they are centralised. So I have faith in that route. Next it is the question, regardless of whether you use the formal instrument of inspection, or an apple from this house or an apple from me on the organization to split up, would add something. I honestly believe that in order to achieve the objective of splitting, namely to organise care more small-scale, more personalised and closer to home, the route Careyn has used is a sensible route to achieve that goal. I do not know whether an apple to ricochet off certain business areas or to make separate foundations of the different parts of Careyn adds anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u40	I understand that it is not easy to draw the conclusion that splitting up here is the solution. I do notice that the Minister is now a little more lenient about splitting up the phenomenon. I would argue that this case should not be placed in the refrigerator or seen in advance as something that should not be done. Again, I understand that you can't just draw the conclusion that the untanglement of this chaos is solved by splitting up. We have also seen that in matters such as Meavita's, the untanglement of such a knot is very vulnerable. I also asked a question about the intervention team. That was announced in November 2016 with quite a lot of bombabarie. How did they proceed? When did they start? When did they end up? What interventions did they make? Will the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u41	The intervention team was discussed in detail at the time. The team has started working and after that first designation Careyn has advised in the choices that had to be made to come to care that is standard in quality and safety. Those choices had to do, among other things, with the structure of the organisation. The intervention team has started work, made a report and advised. Those opinions were used by the Management Board. I think it really played a positive role. The next question could rightly be a follow-up question from Mrs Agema. Is it something that can be repeated in the current design? I shall now say a few words about it, but I would like to answer that question a little more intensively. A critical mirror from outside helps to improve an organization. I think it is good if such a mirror is independent and pure in its role and therefore does not sit on the driver's seat. We will then discuss the approach of nursing home care. As a support offer, I would like to offer such a mirror up to the level of each individual location. You can then offer a very intensive form of support, depending on the institution that needs it. You can say: these are your goals on the way to meeting that quality framework. Do you think if you take these measures, you're actually gonna achieve those goals? If this is the purpose of your organization, what indicators do you have to read that you are actually going to achieve the goal? This is organized independently of the formal role of the inspection, something that is organized independently of the procurement, because this is also where a strong quality management is based, a support offer to institutions. Then they can have a mirror held up to the level of the individual location and be advised. Why do I attach to that role purity? If you put an intervention team on the driver's seat... By the way, the inspection has that instrument in that huge coffin. A driver may be appointed next to him. That "near" actually means: instead of. Such a driver actually takes over the lead of the tent. This is an enforcement measure that needs to be taken when needed, but it's something other than an intervention team that makes you available to any location, not just to poorly performing organisations, to make that step towards improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u42	I suggest that the Minister continues with his text and that we look at whether there are any questions left. Or is he ready yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u43	On the basis of the interruptions I cut my very seamlessly constructed speech myself a little bit. I'm guilty of that myself. I'm gonna go see what questions I haven't had yet. Well, I guess I'll just do it on the basis of the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u44	Then we'll do that for a while and then we'll do an interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u45	May I post my second interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u46	No, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u47	Others were allowed to. It was like my first interruption, while others have already interrupted two, three, four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u48	No, no, no, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u49	Interrupts go in two, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u50	I'm just as strict and unjust to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u51	We're allowed to interrupt twice, aren't we, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u52	The interruptions go in two. I didn't talk about the number of interruptions. We're gonna listen to the Minister now. He's answering a few more questions that haven't been answered. And then we'll continue to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u53	I explained how the inspection was able to reach this conclusion and why this measure was implemented. We have discussed in detail the instrument box of the inspection. I have promised to reflect on this and to take stock of what the instrument box means at the moment, and to have the inspection reflected on it. I shall come back to that in the direction of your Chamber so that we can resume that debate. I also promised to come back to the organization and the small scale: in what way do we standard small scale at the moment? So I will come back to those two elements. In fact, I have questions about how to proceed with regard to the supervision of Careyn. What about the deadlines? I would like to start with the question asked by the PvdA and by D66: there is a deadline on 1 April and has it been met? As we speak, several locations of Careyn are visited to check that out. So the deadline was April 1st and it was about an element from the clue, namely the files. They are currently being lighted at the different locations. So I cannot say now what the outcome is, because that will have to be demonstrated by the inspection investigation that is being carried out now. The second deadline is in November. In addition, the question of D66 is: what then? 'Cause what if they didn't make the second deadline? To be honest, I do not want to anticipate that, because failure to do so can be in so many different ways that it is difficult to anticipate what would be the most appropriate measure at the time, apart from the fact that the inspection is independent in taking that measure in an individual situation. That independence is really guaranteed by law. I think that's for a good reason, because otherwise you'll get political guidance from an enforcement toolbox, and then we're gonna mix roles up. Of course, I would like to inform you very well that the extent to which the first deadline is being met is being investigated at the moment and the second deadline is in November. What's next? That'll follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u54	Was this your text in its entirety?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u55	Well, I had a few more questions, but I'll get back to you in a minute. But this subject has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u56	On this subject, Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u57	Interesting to know in the short term what the outcome of the investigation of the deadline of 1 April is. Because I can tell you that, if it is not achieved, the enforcement strategy is actually completely failing. I'm sure the Minister will understand that himself. So the question is, at what point does the Chamber get an update? Is that from a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u58	The moment when the Chamber will be informed will be after I have been informed myself. I think that's the right order. I don't expect that to last very long, but I don't know exactly when I'll hear that. You'll hear that in the middle of May.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u59	Just for the record, six weeks are going to be taken to assess whether file formation has taken place at all these locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u60	There are also legal deadlines for hearing and hearing. I'm sure you've heard of that. I think we should just take it into account and just do it in a proper way, also in the direction of the organisation itself. Then I'll inform you in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u61	I have one more question about how to proceed. The minister says he's very excited about the way Careyn is now working to bring the board and resources more to the locations, rather than getting it all together in the waterhead. So you're actually working on a form of internal split. Then what is the added value of maintaining a head office, of a head management, of a management layer that will once again monitor those different locations? Who's gonna get better?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u62	I'm not on Careyn's works council, but I don't think you suspected that. This also means that I must exercise some restraint and wish to assess the various forms of organisation. For example, we could, of course, look at the whole healthcare landscape and all the organisations here could be on the verge of whether they would choose this as an organisational model themselves. So my enthusiasm is a bit claused. I think there is no difference of opinion on the purpose. You also intend to organise the care more small-scale and personalised, and bring management closer to home and closer to the level of the location, where clients also experience their care. I can understand the route Careyn chose on the way to that target. This route consists essentially of decoupling a number of business lines, which are said to be very distracting from the core of the activities, and then deconcentration the core of those activities, which are now spread across a number of regions. To be honest, I do understand that you as a whole still have to give leadership to such an organisation, albeit that you also focus on all kinds of support services. If at some point, after that deconcentration has taken place, one would say that it would be wiser to deconcentration further into its legal form or to split it up, that is fine as far as I am concerned. If you did that in those three regions, it would lead to three boards of government. So you don't necessarily have less management to do that. It leads to three boards of directors and three supervisory boards if you turn it into three different foundations. Those will be considerations that have played along. I can't look into the head of drivers who make those considerations. I do not think that is necessary either, because we ourselves have a number of anchor points: the quality is standardized through the quality framework, the procurement is carried out according to the quality framework and the inspection supervises the supervisory framework that is based on the quality framework, with the tools available for that purpose. For the touchstone is not so much whether the form of organisation is as we would have liked it to be, but whether the care has that form and content that we believe is the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u63	The minister's a little lame by saying you'll have three boards of directors. The idea of this split is that you reach such a scale that you have drivers who are simply active on the work floor and that you no longer have drivers everywhere at a head office who do not even know the people to whom they have to lead. That is, of course, the big problem we are talking about. The Minister says in everything that it is good that we go more to the locations and that it is getting smaller. But he doesn't answer my question as to why we still need a head office and overpaid drivers, if you can also choose small-scale locations with drivers working on the work floor and therefore not remotely. It's cheaper if you ask me. That is more human, that is smaller, and that is a solution for all those people and clients who are now waiting for better care and better working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr. Chairman. What you're seeing right now is that Careyn's just deconcentration. So it actually does all those things that Mr Hijink calls. And that I also mention, because I very much agree with him on that point. So organize yourself close to where the care is given. Lead where you give the people on the work floor I think it's a bit of an old factory term where you know the people who need to provide the care, just by name and where people feel familiar. That's getting anonymity out of the organization and providing human, personalized care. That is exactly the way we would like to put it, and we would also like to see it. That's the route they're using. Then your follow-up question: why don't you turn that one foundation into three, four, five, six or seven foundations with one board of directors? Why don't you go ahead and cut it up? Once again, I do not rule out that this is still a conceivable scenario in the future. It could be. Do you have to force that? I have just had the debate on this with you and Mrs Agema. I don't think there's any ground for that in itself. If you did that, it would not lead to less management, but to more management, because you need more staff on the board of directors. And you need three boards of supervision. So it leads to an intensification of management and not an intensification of management. As far as organizing daily management as closely as possible to the actual care is concerned, that is the choice that Careyn makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u65	Looking at my colleagues, I'm gonna hang up a little bit. The Minister has indicated that he is coming up with a letter on possible standards of small scale. I think that is quite tricky, because I think we have agreed on the quality framework for quality tests. I can imagine that in his letter the Minister states what we can learn from the case of Careyn and also in what way the inspection looks at structure, but I find it rather tricky and frankly also very subjective to talk about standards and small scale from the Chamber. I'd like to ask the Minister how he feels about that, looking at his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u66	I actually think that I have made a fairly balanced commitment, because I have just started my own hesitations about standards of small scale where the standards of small scale are the standards of organizational forms. That seems very complicated to me. The point of approach we have chosen in the direction of care has been quality and quality monitoring. Moreover, supervision is also aimed at good governance; I will come to that later, but supervision is mainly focused on quality. That's standardized in the quality framework. Subsequently, supervision is set out in a supervisory framework, which is also based on the quality framework. That's the way we organized it. I am committed to this, but the starting point for small-scale care, which is also included in your and my magnificent government agreement, is an important starting point. Each chooses a bit of his own words, but you actually hear this in all the insertions from all the groups. The question is just how to normalize it; that was Mr Slootweg's question. Where Mr Slootweg asks if you could also standardize this with standards regarding its form of organisation, I say: ooh, that seems extremely difficult to me. But could we reflect on how we have standardized that principle of small-scale organised care as in personal care or close care, with professional autonomy for the people who work there at the moment, and whether that is sufficiently standardized? I should like to go into that in my letter. I think we can do that very well. I mentioned the overhead standard, on which I have already embraced, to the surprise of Mrs Agema, her motion. I do that sometimes; I do. I also mentioned the starting point of personalised care in the quality framework. These are forms in which we have actually standardized small scale, in a different way than in the normalization through the organizational structure. I hope that I have met your concerns and your fears with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u67	Then we just assume that small scale personal care means that it comes back to the Minister's letter. I don't have a problem with that. I would like the Minister's letter to address the question of the lessons learned...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u69	... looking at Careyn and if he wants to pay attention to the role of the inspection, looking at the structure, because the inspection also looks at the structure. But I have a very important question. We can talk about the structure for a very long time, but in the reply last year the Minister indicated that there are no acute risks to safety and care. That gave me an uncertain feeling, as I said in my contribution, because if there are no acute risks, there may be regular risks. My question to the Minister is: how is Careyn now? How are the services to the clients and patients at Careyn now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u70	In the case of acute risks, another action repertoire of the inspection shall apply. That's why I named it that way. An ok that does not have enough staff to actually perform quality operations as you expect and as set out in the quality standards, must close. That's an acute security risk, so it closes down. For example, the inspection has a different repertoire when safety is acutely at stake. Take the observation on file formation: it is of course not that there are no files. When, last year, that second indication was given, the observation was that although improvements were made in the files, the care plan as it was was not yet recognizable in all the files. Another example: the observation of the inspection was that expertise should be promoted and improved. That's not a reason to close the tent acutely. That would be very drastic, but this is a reason to give a clue that should be. Then that happens and then the observation is: yes, but you are not finished with that expertise promotion. That is why there is reason to say: yes, it is not in order. There is really more work to be done before it is in order, but there is still no reason to be acutely concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mrs Bergkamp, you wanted to do another follow-up question, but we're just doing the interruptions in half. We're going to listen to Mrs. Agema now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr President, the fact that I was not allowed to go through the question did give me the opportunity to chew on those intervention teams. Sometimes you have a vanguard fight here for years, for example for the unannounced inspection visits. It took years for the Chamber to take over that wish and it became common ground that the inspection was initially unannounced. I was also pleased that the Minister said that the intervention team made a report and that the Management Board also made use of those recommendations. But it also has a bit of the character of: they do a puddle and everything remains as it was. We must really proceed with an intervention team always sitting on a driver's seat. I shall also table a motion to that effect. Maybe the minister isn't ready yet and I don't get "judge chamber" again, but I'm gonna take on that vanguard fight. You can't really achieve anything until the board is taken over, instead of the board being able to sit on its seat and get a few more recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u73	I am, of course, eagerly looking forward to that motion. That's one. Two, I think I am going to dissuade it if it is as Mrs Agema put it in her introduction to that motion. I have just tried to point out that I am very much in favour of intervention: intervention, at the level of each individual location as far as I am concerned, in the sense that such a location is held a mirror and that it is designated where it can be different and better and which locations in the same situation have already shown things that would be very useful for this location. That's one element. The second element is that in the operational repertoire of the inspection you also have the measure, the possibility of intervention, by means of an instruction next to the driver...................................................................................................................................................................................... That's actually what you mean. So that possibility already exists. By the way, if you put another driver next to a driver, the signal in the direction of that first driver is clear, isn't it? Last time, I also said: if you appoint another minister next to me, who has to look over my shoulder, then the signal in my direction is clear and then it is just end of practice. There is therefore a possibility of intervention. But those roles, one supporting and advising and the other an inspection intervention to force the ship's crew to change are two different roles. Those two interventions are both important and of value to both of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u74	The point is that it can, but it doesn't happen. It didn't happen here either. That is why I used the example of the unannounced visits. That was possible under Balkenende IV, but it didn't happen. The inspection was always announced well in advance. Well, we knew things would have improved a lot. Now we have standard unannounced inspection visits, unless it's a follow-up visit. That's why I'm going to fight this vanguard. That is why I will also say that it must not only be done but must also be done. If an intervention team is set up, it must also take over the driver's seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u75	I'm not gonna repeat myself. I'll tell you one thing. In the case of Careyn, at some point the driver was changed and the supervisory board was replaced to a large extent. There has therefore been a replacement in the human sphere. Was that after the inspection had to make that intervention? No, because it wasn't necessary. You can see that in some of these situations. If clues are given with the impact of a clue such as Careyn's, then the impact on the organisation and on the management of that organisation is so great that an internal supervisor, a supervisory board, scratches behind the ears and asks the question: are we still the people who have to send this ship? Also the board is asked the question: what do you think, are you going to lead us to an organization that is in control? Sometimes it's said: we can't really do without you, but we're gonna try. That conversation is, of course, being held quite intensively when such an inspection report is available. So it is more often that it does not come to that because such an intervention is not necessary than that there would be a desire not to use it or anything. I don't recognize that restraint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thank you. We're heading for the second term. Another interruption, Mrs. Bergkamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, my second interruption. I'd like to get out of the language of the inspection anyway. I do not know if the Minister himself has been to Careyn by now, but I am very curious to see what the impression of the concern is now. Follow me is always the measure: would I want to grow old or would I want to send my parents there? What is the impression of the minister of care at Careyn's right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u78	I would find it careless to go into that, because we are currently having a repeat visit aimed at the deadline that had to be met and at the improvements that had to be made at the time. I sent you a letter on 5 December and answered your questions. I also reflected on what the inspection sees. At the moment, the inspection is conducting that repeat investigation. I have already indicated that I am informing you; that is also logical, of course. Then I'll just give you the inspection observations on the state of play. But I'm not going to freestyle on how things are at Careyn's locations right now, if only because it's almost impossible to sketch that for a moment. There are quite a few locations and of course there are also differences between the quality that is delivered at the different locations. In addition, there are endless teams of district nurses, all of whom must also participate in quality development. So I'm not giving you a quick-and-dirty sketch of what's going on with Careyn. I'm gonna do it nicely. The inspection will assess compliance with the deadline of 1 April, and I will inform you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u79	Very good. Thank you. So much for the first term. I see that there is a need for a second term. Mrs Dijksma has already come forward and, like everyone else, has one minute's speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u80	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Minister for the answers given. It was a debate that became rather complex because all kinds of options were presented, including by the Minister himself. That was not necessarily requested by my group. I would like to speak very precisely with the Minister about how the inspection in this case has chosen its enforcement strategy and how adequately it has been implemented, precisely because it is very important for the credibility of the inspection. I'd like to finish my term with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that people in nursing homes should always be sure of good and safe care;]] [[Whereas the Health Care Inspectorate keeps warning and setting deadlines for poorly performing nursing homes over and over again, but does not always follow them;]] [[Whereas the inspection should take rapid action if abuses are detected in nursing homes;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out an evaluation of the enforcement strategy at care institution Careyn;]] [[also invites the Government to implement an update of the enforcement framework in this respect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijksma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr. Chairman. I think that this debate is a good example of how deep business thinking has now been absorbed in healthcare. You can see that in today's debate. It's about supervisory boards, boards of directors and top rewards. The minister says you'll get three supervisory boards and three board of directors if you cut it up. But the aim is, of course, that the administration should return to the institution itself and that it should no longer be disconnected from the practice. That's why a motion to split the caremoloch Careyn. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that clients who depend on Careyn's nursing home care are entitled to better care, more permanent staff and less large scale;]] [[noting that it is becoming increasingly difficult to interest employees in coming to work at this care institution plagued by ill-treatment;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Careyn is cut up into several independent foundations so that care can be organised on a small scale, clients and employees have a say in the quality of care and surplus overhead is disposed of,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-314]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u82	Could you suspend for a moment, Mr. Chairman? My motion has yet to come out of the printer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u83	Shall we listen to Mr Slootweg first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u84	I'm fine with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u85	But Mr Slootweg, intimidated, is immediately away from his speaking time. Mrs Bergkamp also waives her speaking time. It's gonna be exciting, Mrs. Agema. Mrs Hermans is going to save you while your motion comes out of the printer. Take your time, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have a question about the lead that Careyn initially received and which later extended the inspection for another year. I do not want to go as far as Mrs Dijksma says that was a wrong decision from the inspection. However, I think it is important that we look very carefully at what consideration has been made when giving that first indication, including the deadlines and the measures that were underneath. I think this is very important for the sector, the inhabitants and the staff. I said "the sector," because I also think it's important that all these other nursing homes know that it really means something, if you get a clue or if there's intervention. I would like a little more response from the Minister. He can also say that he will explicitly comment on this in the letter with the lessons learned he has promised. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u87	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber with a warm motion is Mrs Agema of the Party for Freedom Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the fact that the Minister did not put the power of division directly in the refrigerator. I think we can still benefit from this in the future. Sometimes we have to fight the vanguard. I just announced that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inspection has the possibility to set up an intervention team with a care organisation and to add drivers to the board;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that when the inspection deploys an intervention team in the care, which is done in such a way that it concerns teams of superprofessionals who take over the board (with all the powers) of the organisation and put things in order, as we know from the television programmes of Gordon Ramsay, Jon Taffer and Tabatha Coffey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u89	Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't mind getting the last motion, too, but I'm talking. Then I'll just start with the motion in part number. 313 by Mrs Dijksma of the Labour Party. I am going to discourage this motion, but not because I would disagree with an inspection that is alert and assertive and proactively reacts. These are my words; they do not appear in the motion for a resolution but because it has a number of considerations, which are simply factually incorrect. In addition, a conclusion is reached that is really "jumping to conclusions." The second recital states, for example, that "poor performing nursing homes keep warning and setting deadlines, but that they are not always followed up." In order to prepare for this debate, I have just looked at how many times it has occurred that an indication has been given and that, when assessing the state of play, it has been said that, apart from all kinds of other possibilities, an indication in that situation was once again the most appropriate instrument. That was also a question from Mrs Bergkamp. This has been done five times in all sectors and all institutions since 2016. This consideration simply does not correspond to reality. The request is "an update of the enforcement framework'. I think Mrs Dijksma is referring to the enforcement strategy. You have a review framework and you have the enforcement strategy. I think that's also jumping to conclusions, because it's really the question if that's necessary. In addition, the question is whether this does not interfere with the independence of the inspection. So I'm really going to dissuade this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 314 by Mr Hijink of the SP. The request to the government is to ensure that Careyn is cut up in several independent foundations. I think we've had that little debate quite exhausting. In my opinion, we are not even so different in the main, but we are as far as the consequences are concerned. Do you really need to push further towards cutting it, when a number of activities have already been divested and a very far-reaching deconcentration has already been chosen? I hesitate to say to Careyn at this time: go further, cut yourself up for a while. I think I have explained very well why I am reluctant to do so. So I'm also deceiving this motion. Then the motion to part No. 315, requesting an intervention team. Let me not repeat what I have just said about this. I think role purity is a good idea, so you have to support it up to the level of the individual location and you have to choose the interventions that are most appropriate from the point of view of supervision. They can go very far, indeed up to the level of replacing the captain. It's possible. But that's different than getting an intervention team like Hell's Kitchen from Gordon Ramsay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u90	That's the wrong program, Mrs. Agema says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u91	Is that the wrong program? War in the kitchen, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u92	I'm talking about the program where he really takes over the board of the restaurant. The same goes for that woman, Tabatha, and for Jon Taffer. Well, he does a lot of cursing. They shouldn't take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u93	Yes, I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u94	So it's about taking over the organization for a short period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u95	Mrs. Agema will send you the DVDs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u96	Excuse me. I've seen Net5 come by once in a while. I thought I guessed right, but I watch too much Netflix and too little ordinary TV. It's all clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u97	That's where it goes wrong. I see Mrs Dijksma with a question perhaps. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u98	I'll come back to the verdict on my motion. If the Minister mainly objects to that consideration, I will delete it, because I am not the worst either. I would also like to turn the word "enforcement framework" into a "criteria framework." But I actually want to hear from him, underlying him, whether he is prepared to have a serious evaluation of how Careyn went and, on that basis, to look at and update that enforcement framework. If the answer is yes, I can also hold my motion or perhaps not even put it to the vote, because then I have what I want. But if the answer remains no, it is really an unsatisfactory end to this debate. Because I think this is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u99	I believe that I have promised something that is quite close to what Mrs Dijksma wants, namely that I am writing a letter containing two elements. One of these elements is, as Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Hermans and Mr Slootweg called it, the lessons learned, so what have you learned from this situation? I said in the debate that I think, knowing what the follow-up was, you could say that at the time of the first indication a more realistic deadline should have been chosen. That's what I said. I think the inspection itself will say the same thing. From the lessons learned I would therefore like to make an inventory of the instruments of inspection and their use and see what you can learn from them. That's different than doing an evaluation. I do not see the added value of that. As a enforcement party, you make a decision. You say you've been dealing with enforcement services on a regular basis. Me too. When you make an enforcement decision, you always do it on the basis of the best estimate of that moment. At the very beginning of the debate, I said that the best assessment made by the inspection at the time was the question of whether this is the fastest and most effective route to standard-compliant care when it comes to safety and good care. That's actually the route. That's the choice that's been made. You sometimes make those choices, but then afterwards, with retroactive effect, it turns out that the choice you made should have been another one. It just happens. I'm not gonna do a comprehensive evaluation for that. I will make an inventory of the current instruments of inspection. In doing so, I will involve the lessons learned. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u100	And when will we get that letter from you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u101	It's gonna take a while, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u102	Around the summer, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u103	That would be silly, wouldn't it? I would never do that. I would never do that. Can I make it June? Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u104	June's up. Mrs. Dijksma, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u105	In any case, I will amend the text of my motion, in accordance with what I have just said. I will also consider whether I am actually going to put her to the vote. I'm gonna have to think about that. However, I would like to see the lessons learned and their conclusions combined with the letter that we receive somewhere in mid-May about whether the deadline of 1 April was met. If that deadline is not met, the Minister also knows that we have a very different debate. I hope not, but if necessary, I would prefer the Minister's immediate action rather than having to wait weeks for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u106	A few things about that. I think I should make the debate possible in a good way by doing the following. In May, I will send you the outcome of the assessment of the inspection visit that is taking place. For the letter containing the inventory of inspection instruments and their reflection, also in view of the lessons that have been drawn, I need a little more time. What if I sent it in June? Then the two together can lead to a debate. That seems to me to be a manageable way of doing things. Let me see if I can get the small-scale commitment and the standardization of it done at the same rate. Otherwise I will make it a separate letter, because it must not delay the other elements. This is how I make the debate possible at a good time by building it with a good letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u107	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u108	I have one more motion, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u109	No, we've had three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u110	However, I have received a question from Mrs Hermans concerning a reflection on the conduct of the inspection. You invite me to return to that in the letter. I think I will do that anyway, because the lessons learned need to be dealt with in it. I would like to emphasise two things at the end of this debate. I'm a little critical when people jump to conclusions. Of course, given the need for a second indication, it is not so difficult to come to the observation that the first indication was not sufficiently realistic. Is that jiggle and jab? That could be derived from the extent to which it occurs. It is extremely limited: five times since 2016, with all the decisions taken by the inspection, apart from the hundreds of administrative fines, penalty charges and such measures. In short, it's not a sledgehammer or a sledgehammer. But the supervisor may of course think that something is the way forward and should be possible in nine months, but that it is not possible in nine months. That could happen. I am hesitant to immediately draw a conclusion to this with regard to, for example, the enforcement tools or the enforcement strategy. I think that, on the basis of this case, you can't just draw that conclusion, especially because it undermines the independence of the inspection. Let me get it on my own. If I know better from my tower, with my knees under my desk, than the inspection and know better which enforcement instrument should be used at what point and in what situation in an individual case, we will have a rather complicated debate. Of course, the inspection is a ministerial responsibility, but that does not mean that in an individual case, in an individual situation, I take decisions individually. I am responsible for the operation of the inspection and thus for the tools and strategy with which we are sending the inspection, but I cannot make a decision in an individual case. I wanted to make that addition in this debate for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u111	Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I totally understand that. I also share the Minister's independence and speech on this matter from a to z. For the sake of clarity, that was not the reason for my question either. I also believe that the inspection should be carried out independently. My only point is, therefore, I am linking it to the lessons learned that in this case, because it is complex and complicated, it has been decided after nine months to postpone it a little bit. In view of the whole improvement that we have in nursing care, I think this has an appeal to the sector. I would like to respond to that in that letter on the lessons learned so that all those nursing homes that are already so hard and hard and that will be the battle in the coming years will be encouraged and supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u113	The point is clear and I very much agree with you. Let me say that I will return to that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u114	Very good. Thank you to the Minister for his presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-5.u115	We'll vote on the two or the three motions on Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting for exactly half an hour. At 1.35 p.m., we will vote and then there will be the order of business.
