ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. I'd like to ask the members to sit down. The next item is the debate on the EUR 125 million for housing corporation Humanitas. Once again, I welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. There have been six or seven speakers, everyone has four minutes. I'd like to agree with you in the first term to keep two interruptions in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis of the VVD, who has also requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. 125 million euros of aid went to housing corporation Humanitas. That's a lot of money, of which we can build hundreds of social housing and make thousands more sustainable. 125 million, that's almost €45,000 per social housing. By comparison, at Vestia that was only €6,000 to €7,000 per social rental house. And let's not forget that this is not just about money. These are also tenants who experience the consequences of what has been done to them on a daily basis. We are talking about 125 million support from the Social Housing Guarantee Fund. But the support in the broadest sense of the word is greater. This includes the tax loss deposited with the Vpb and the purchase price made by Woonbron for the purchase of Humanitas' rental homes. I would like to know from the Minister what support has been in the broadest sense of the word. I understand that the support that has gone to Humanitas has been private money, in a way private money from the Social Housing Guarantee Fund, and that the Minister cannot immediately decide where that aid is going. But besides Humanitas there are two other corporations where support has gone to: Geertruidenberg and Vestia. So far, that support has been public money from the Minister. Geertruidenberg first. I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to calculate how much loss and purchase amounts it will save if Geertruidenberg sells the expensive social housing to private investors, long-term investors such as pension funds. Has the Minister done this yet? If public money continues to go to Geertruidenberg, as far as the VVD is concerned, the minister district for district, street by street, house by house look to minimize loss and purchase amounts. Can the Minister undertake to do this? I understand that the Bank financed the Dutch municipalities of Geertruidenberg. If the Minister needs more time to minimize losses and purchases, the Minister can ask the Bank Dutch Municipalities to give that time. Can the Minister undertake to do this? I would also like to thank the Minister for her commitment to adapt the policy rules at my request to ensure that the municipality of Geertruidenberg cannot transfer losses and purchases to the rest of the country. Has the Minister done this yet? Dan Vestia. I understand that Vestia is making a profit again. That's good news. That means there's no public money left to go to Vestia. Can the Minister answer how much public money has so far gone to Vestia, the so-called clean-up levy? Mr. Chairman. Vestia, Geertruidenberg, Humanitas, all examples of corporate directors who have made millions and millions of losses. In this disorder, they cannot always be held personally responsible, even if public money is to be used for losses. As far as the VVD is concerned, that will change. In the case of maladministration, corporations should simply contribute financially to losses if public money is to be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u3	There is an interruption by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u4	Vestia has, of course, been a disaster, a parliamentary survey, a financial mess with derivatives. But I find the misery itself that tenants and cities where that housing corporation is very big have to sit on the blisters for years. Does Mr Koerhuis share that with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u5	I find it very annoying, all the losses suffered by corporations, Vestia, Geertruidenberg, Humanitas. That is why I asked for this debate. Annoying for the tenants at these corporations, but of course also for the tenants throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u6	I ask this because Mr Koerhuis is very much against helping with public money. If you look at cities where Vestia is big, where the housekeeping is huge and where they can actually invest too little given what is needed for the tenants, then I do not understand the plea to add very little money. In the previous AO a motion was tabled on more redistribution for sustainability. It's really a big problem in cities when housing corporations don't have money to invest to get enough rental homes. So I don't understand the VVD's plea, if she really cares about the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u7	I have requested this debate because the support to the corporations Vestia, Geertruidenberg and Humanitas is a lot of money, a lot of money. It's about tenants in those three corporations, but it's also about other corporations. And yes, then I also think that we should be very economical with public money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you. At Geertruidenberg, for example, we see that the former corporate director has included in his termination agreement that he does not have to contribute financially to losses, the so-called financial discharge. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. One final lesson for the future is that living and caring must remain separate. They are two different budgets with two different laws and regulations and two different supervisors. We've already arranged that with the new House Act. That is why, fortunately, these kinds of problems are no longer possible. The problems of Humanitas Living and Humanitas Zorg still come from the time before. Does the Minister see the same problems with other combinations of living and care? Or are all these problems finally over? There is pressure from the corporation sector to combine living and care again. Can the Minister promise that we will not go down that road again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every now and then, the housing corporation sector gets pretty messed up. Just now, Vestia passed by, the most frightening example of how things can go wrong and how hundreds of millions of semi-public money can be wasted. This example, too, has gone wrong. As far as the PvdA is concerned, it must always be at the forefront of how it ends with the tenants. In this case, these are older people in mainly Rotterdam who are in a residential care facility. Are they in uncertainty and are they being sold to investors, which makes the rents sky high? Do they know if they can live there yet? If corporate directors make mistakes and things go south, we have a guarantee fund. Strict rules have all been agreed for that, because of course you don't want to reward bad behavior. But in the event that it occurs, the PvdA Group is right and right to believe that this is there, both for the sake of security of the tenants and to keep investment capacity in the region. The latter does not apply in this example, but Vestia did. Especially when one is dependent on one housing corporation it's good if other people jump in, otherwise things really go wrong. In cities where Vestia is big, this is really a big problem. For example, in The Hague, this is really a big problem; here, in this city. So I am not at all on the VVD line of "let them bleed," "let the tenants take the fall" and "we keep a bit of a populist story that it's a disgrace; the investors have to pay for it and otherwise they're in trouble." In fact, I support the Minister's policy. I'd like to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's likely that Humanitas Housing and Housing Source will merge. A bankruptcy of Humanitas is probably averted. There's a lot of support for that. Humanitas has about 2,900 homes, especially in Rotterdam. They are important for the share of affordable housing in the city. The Minister writes: "A merger has no effect in principle on existing rental contracts of the tenants. They retain their rental rights." However, at the end of 2017 Humanitas informed De Reigers in Rotterdam that there is another party involved in the merger, Syntrus Achmea. This has been the cause of unrest among the tenants. Can future liberalisations, sales or possible rent increases be avoided and rest for incumbent tenants? Can there be no delay in maintenance? Like Mr Nijboer, I am concerned about the consequences that financial mispolicy, as Mr Koerhuis calls it, could have on the tenants. They deserve a good and affordable house. As far as the SP is concerned, that is the main point of this debate: the consequences for tenants. Humanitas' stock has so far not been covered by local performance agreements. Is that gonna happen now? Humanitas' application for a rehabilitation grant of no less than 130 million has not been approved by the Social Housing Fund. It wouldn't be necessary, but Humanitas doesn't just come to this request. How does it work from now on? Is there now an additional risk at the merged institution and therefore at the tenants, who will have to close any gaps? Not everything is riskless, is it? According to the WSW, there are still "a number of very important risks that cannot be quantified." What important risks should we consider? What consequences could this have for the tenants? According to the latest figures from the end of 2016, the social housing sector is financially good for.......................................................................................................................................................................... Humanitas was in heavy weather and other corporations are recovering. How many corporations are still in the risk class red? It would be good if we could close this bizarre phase of the history of our people's housing. I await the Minister's answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u14	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Due to the abuses in the corporate world and the crisis in housing, several corporations have fallen into severe weather. One of them is Humanitas in Rotterdam. It is now clear that Humanitas and Woonbron are going to merge and that the Waarborgfonds Sociale Woonbouw has to make a significant contribution. Humanitas had been talking to Woonbron about a merger for a long time. For tenants, nothing changes, Humanitas promises. The social housing will remain under the control of the merged housing corporation and the contracts with the tenants will continue. My first question to the Minister is: Is this so? Do the tenants of Humanitas indeed not notice anything about the merger and the financial problems? Humanitas has 2,900 homes and has been in financial heavy weather for a long time. The question arises as to how this could have happened. There seems to have been a lot wrong with Humanitas: a messy administration and late maintenance. Furthermore, the intertwining with healthcare provider Humanitas was too large and too many loans were made. My question to the Minister is therefore: what are the lessons learned from this? Shouldn't the Authority have acted earlier on housing corporations and the WSW? Are there more such corporations where interests and positions of healthcare providers and corporations have been or have been mixed up? On 24 November last, the Chamber was informed that Humanitas would merge with Woonbron. The necessary money comes from the WSW. We understand that the WSW ultimately pays out of its own resources and that the fund is seen as a private mutual insurer of the participating corporations. In the end, there is no need for a public restructuring subsidy. The application for a restructuring aid has therefore been rejected, and that seems to us to be a good thing. Corporates must solve these problems themselves and should not approach the Empire. We realize that this hurts for well-running corporations. They end up paying the bill. The CDA appreciates the solidarity of the corporations as a whole, but ultimately the tenants of all these corporations pay the bill together. And that feels kind of acidic, doesn't it? In addition to the financial settlement, of course, there is also the question of who was responsible for this when. Are former responsible key players still addressed and/or called to account for their policies and choices at the time? I'd like a response from the Minister. We share the Minister's conclusion that a merger is the best solution. Liquidation or bankruptcy creates more risks and the tenants are best served by this solution. We also appreciate the setting up of the WSW. After all, the purpose of the WSW is to minimise losses in such situations. This is now achieved by the guarantee provision by cooperating in the realisation of the merger. So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. Living is a fundamental right and we must therefore ensure that tenants are well protected and do not suffer from the wrong policies of housing corporations. Fortunately, we have arranged it in the Netherlands in such a way that there is a guarantee fund to ensure that if a housing corporation gets into trouble the tenants can simply stay in their homes. In this case we have seen that the guarantee system as set up works on its own, but prevention is better than cure. For GroenLinks, therefore, the most important question in this context is how to avoid these situations as much as possible in the future. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. What lessons does the Minister draw from this situation about the governance structure of housing corporations? Is she convinced that this kind of problem under the current Housing Act is no longer possible in principle? How is it ensured that tenants will not suffer from failing governance? How will any new problems be balanced between repairing and securing? Does the Minister consider that the guarantee system has worked well in this case or could it be improved? 125 million have been taken out of the guarantee fund. How does the Minister assess the level of current reserves? Next time there will be two more routes, at WSG and Vestia again the amount paid by the guarantor from the own funds of the WSW? If so, how much equity should the WSW retain? And if not, how? Does it have to be paid through the obligation? What are the consequences of this on corporations? Do corporations with most loans have to make the biggest contribution and are they going to contribute to the payment of corporations that are in the process of restructuring themselves? Finally, Mr President. Aedes points out that a number of recommendations from the sector advisory committees have not been accepted and considers this undesirable. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. How does she look at this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A housing corporation that is in heavy weather, directors who make a financial mess of it and tenants who, as always, are the victims of it. It reminds us of the parliamentary survey on housing corporations. Today we're talking about Humanitas. I know that the drivers did not drive Maserati's, but they failed just as hard. Older people who thought they could live in a senior home at Humanitas carefree came out cheated. While savings were being made on the facilities, they got the maximum rent increase for their choices time and time again. They also suddenly had to pay extra for trips and coffee. It's too bizarre for words. The result of the misery at Humanitas is now a merger with fellow corporation Woonbron. Good news is, of course, that the tenants can stay, but are these tenants then also compensated for all the misery they have endured in recent years? Are the rents going down? They deserve it. I'd like a response. The Social Housing Guarantee Fund provides a financial contribution of 125 million euros from the own funds previously raised by the corporations themselves. Of course, it sounds nice and nice that it solves the financial problems of an individual corporation by the sector, but how is the Minister going to ensure that these costs are not passed on to the tenants by the sector? Can the Minister respond to that? I'm going back to the parliamentary survey. I took the report again. Here's what's in it. "The Committee's investigation shows that the collateral provided by the guarantee system has the opposite effect that moral hazard is lurking in the corporate system. Corporate directors feel safe when corporations in trouble are always saved with money from the sector." For years, Humanitas drivers have been able to make a mess of it, then a merger and a bag of money will be on the table. Of course, that's in the interests of the tenants. But, of course, so did the drivers themselves. How does the Minister guarantee that the so-called security of financial support has not been an appropriate incentive to maladministration? And what about the bankruptcy option? The Minister writes in her letter that the costs in the event of bankruptcy would be EUR 147 million, more so. The guarantee fund calls merging the most desirable and realistic solution. In addition to the lower costs, have any other considerations played a role in that conclusion and, if so, which ones? I ask this question because the advisory committee of Aedes, the umbrella of housing corporations, has made recommendations, some of which have not been taken over. Aedes therefore states that the corporation sector may pay but may not determine. I ask the Minister what recommendations they are and why they have not been adopted. I'd like a response. I'll be on the board. How is the board composed after the merger with Woonbron? Surely we can hope that the directors of Humanitas, who are responsible for the financial mess, will no longer get a place in it, but that they will simply be thrown out of the way? That would only make sense. I would like to clarify this point. 125 million euros is a bizarre amount of money. Is there any further investigation into culpable negligence or perhaps the commission of criminal offences by the directors of Humanitas? That too would only make sense. Finally, the next question. How does the Minister feel about jointly and severally holding directors of housing corporations who have proven to have made a financial mess of it responsible for the damage caused? So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr President, the situation in Humanitas is a bad one. In addition to a waste of a lot of money, this situation still creates uncertainty for the tenants. We must therefore remove this uncertainty as much as possible. It has been mentioned a number of times that we also have to learn a lot from this situation and from Vestia, for example. Many of the previous speakers have also mentioned the situation at Humanitas specifically. The provision of information was not in order and the monitoring may not have worked properly either. This happened before the parliamentary survey on housing corporations and the new Housing Act arrived. I therefore ask the Minister whether this would be possible under the current law. What mechanisms are in place to prevent this kind of failure in the future? Now it is true that housing corporations pay together; GroenLinks already cut that up. How exactly are corporations affected, not only in this case, but also in the future? Is this the case with regard to outstanding loans and risk profile? Or do corporations have to co-pay on the basis of the WPA values, or in some other way? Can the Minister indicate what method is being used in future rehabilitation operations? As far as D66 is concerned, account should be taken of the declarations made by the corporations concerned and the investment area of those corporations. In what way will this ratio, or this weighting, be taken into account in determining this solidarity contribution? In this housing corporation, the problem was caused, among other things, by the interlinking of care and housing. We wonder what is going on with the unbundling that should take place. It is being reviewed, the advisory committee of Aedes has given an opinion and municipalities are involved. Can the Minister reflect on this? If it is right, Humanitas' caretaker is now completely unwoven, but how do we ensure that it doesn't go wrong there and how do we ensure that there are no elderly people on the streets? Finally, Mr President. This is a very painful situation and it is very annoying, as I said, especially for the tenants. That is why I think the most important thing is to ensure that this cannot happen again and that we give as much security as possible to the tenants who are still dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs about ten minutes to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u23	I would very much like to give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions in the first term. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thank you. A lot of questions have been asked by Members. I fully understand that, because of course it is a very annoying matter. It's actually something that comes from the past. A lot's happened since then. There has been a parliamentary survey, the law has been amended but there are still issues that need to be resolved, including this issue of housing corporation Humanitas. As some of the Members have just pointed out, we now know that the financial problems that have arisen here have arisen from the intertwinedness with the Humanitas care institution, with which the housing corporation formed a personal union until 2015. Following this unbundling, Humanitas' financial and real estate administration was very limited and incomplete. This ultimately led to Humanitas submitting an updated restructuring application on 11 August. The Waarborgfonds Sociale Woningbouw (Social Housing Fund), the WSW, has as mandated repaired the renovation application of the housing corporation Stichting Humanitas Housing, which I will simply call the rest of the debate Humanitas and assessed the underlying plan submitted by Humanitas. On 22 November, the WSW took a negative reorganisation decision as a mandate repairer. The reason for this decision was that the need for the reorganisation subsidy for the continuation of the so-called "services of general economic interest' activities of Humanitas was not established. The activities can be continued through a merger with housing corporation Woonbron. In view of the feasibility and residual risks, the guarantee provision had indicated that it would find the most desirable and realistic solution. The merger with Woonbron and the resolution of the financial problems provide a solution. As the guarantor cooperates and contributes financially to the merger, the rental of the approximately 2,900 rental units is continued. This application was also the first application under the new Housing Act, because since the amendment of the Housing Act, the granting of reorganisation aid, in whole or in part, to a corporation is no longer self-evident. Sanitation aid should be aimed at continuing the core tasks of a corporation, the so-called "necessary services of general economic interest" activities. The restructuring aid must not exceed the amount necessary to continue the work in question. The aim is to improve incentives in the system, so that other stakeholders, external creditors or guarantors, too, will have to contribute more often than in the past to finding a solution if there are financial problems in corporations. Madam President, this is to introduce and underline the complexity of the issue. A number of questions were also about the lessons learned. I will say a little more about this, but this is a factual sketch which also gives some answers. This situation has been created by poor policy in the past. It is also a situation that should no longer be possible now, because all kinds of measures have been taken that see it. I think that's very important. However, you are faced with the question of solving such a legacy from the past with the new instruments that we now have in our hands. Mr. Chairman. I propose that the answer be given in the order of the speakers, but I realise that the speakers who were at the end will have already received an answer when I arrived at them, because certain themes came back to everyone. Mr Koerhuis asked what this support actually looks like. Housing source, with which the merger takes place, has made no purchase fee. In addition to the property of Humanitas, Woonbron also takes over part of the loans. This is done on the basis of so-called cash-flow neutrality. This means that all incoming cash flows, namely rental income, are equal to all outgoing cash flows, namely interest repayment, maintenance, management, tax and that kind of business. That means for Woonbron that they are not getting better from this merger, but they are not getting worse either. In the letter of 17 December, the guarantor indicated that the merger was a desirable and realistic solution in their view, given the feasibility and the residual risks. Since it is the guarantor, he did not choose to sell to the market but made a choice based on loss minimising, i.e. not based on a people's housing consideration. Mr Koerhuis also asked about the Vpb. I have heard from the guarantor that it is not yet known what the write-off losses are in the context of the Vpb, but also for this case that the regular tax rules apply to them as they apply to all other Vpb taxpayers. That must never be a form of support. We are talking about Humanitas, but Mr Koerhuis also involved another case in the debate, namely WSG. I understand that very well. Others have also pointed to Vestia, WSG and Humanitas. However, I find it difficult to go into that in depth today, because it is still being assessed at the moment, and I cannot anticipate the outcome of this debate. So I hope that Mr Koerhuis will forgive me if I deal with this somewhat reluctantly. He also asked whether the Bank was still playing a role in this. Here too, it is very important that this is done very carefully. Time has to be taken for that. Time to come to a decision that really reflects all the relevant aspects. There will, of course, also have to be consultations with all the parties involved. So I would like to say that in response to Mr Koerhuis' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you. Mr Koerhuis has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u26	I understand that it is difficult for the Minister to deal with this case because it is now under her. In any case, you are calculating how loss and purchase amounts can be minimized. Well, I hope you did. I still have the simple question whether you are prepared to ask the Bank Dutch Municipalities, because it is a lot of money, possibly even more so than Humanitas. Are you prepared to ask the Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten, so that we do not end up in an unfortunate scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u27	First of all, I said that it must be done carefully. All interested parties, including the Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten, must be involved. I understand Mr Koerhuis' comment. I believe that this should indeed be part of that careful approach, so I can promise him that. Mr Koerhuis also asked about the commitment to adjust the policy rules on guaranteeing and the policy rules on reorganisation. That is indeed something I have already announced in a letter. I believe that was in my letter of 26 January. It is actually a question of clarifying the way in which the balance should be made for both the guarantee and the reorganisation of a corporation in financial difficulties. Those considerations are already practiced, but I think it is good to provide even more clarity by simply recording them. The policy rules will clarify that the activities identified by a municipality as necessary, SGEI activities, constitute an upper limit for the provision of restructuring aid, but that all the circumstances of the case will be taken into account in the question whether the granting of restructuring aid is proportionate. The municipality's view is therefore not leading in this respect. The policy rules of the guarantee provision will clarify that the guarantor makes a purely financial assessment and that his statutory obligation is to minimise losses. He will therefore be inclined to maximize revenues by, for example, selling property. He will not necessarily distinguish between a corporation or a market participant. Clarification of the policy rules is under way. The WSW is working on that adjustment. It will then be submitted to me. So it's work in progress. I hope, of course, that I will come to a conclusion soon. Then there is a question from Mr Koerhuis, but I believe that others asked questions about it too. Mr Koerhuis said that the problems of Humanitas arose and I said this in my introduction also from the personal union with the care institution and therefore from the dependence of one tenant. We don't want that situation in the future. The possibility of personal unions has already been abolished with the amendment of the Housing Act. Thus, double human union as we have seen here should no longer be allowed. If there is a personal union with a social institution at the administrative level, this should not be the case at the supervisory board level. Furthermore, the Authority has already conducted targeted studies on the risks associated with the previously realised personal associations. This concerns a very small number of limited-risk corporations, but they are in any case closely monitored by the Authority's housing corporations. Both the WSW in the risk assessment and the Authority's housing corporations look into the supervision of the so-called concentration tenants. These are tenants responsible for at least 1% of annual income. That is what is being looked at to get a picture of dependence on one or a few parties. Mr Koerhuis has called on me to look again in the case of the WSG, work for work, street by street and house by house to see if we could do this with as little financial settlement as possible. I told you before, I find it complicated to anticipate this case. In general, that must of course be done carefully and it must be checked whether it is proportionate, as I have just outlined. Depending on the choice, the housing, the desirability, the feasibility, the risks and, of course, the financial side are involved, but you have to do this differently per case. As I have just said, that will have to be done very carefully. I will come back to that, of course. Mr Koerhuis also asked how much public money went to Vestia. In 2012, EUR 675 million went to Vestia as restructuring aid. Mr. Chairman. A number of Members, not only Mr Koerhuis, but also Mr Ronnes, Mrs Van Eijs and others, I also thought Mrs Voortman had asked about the lessons learned. I think I have already said a few things about this, for example the fact that these personal unions are no longer allowed. Even without this case, that is, of course, an important conclusion that had already been drawn. Under the new law, they can't do it anymore. In fact, the parliamentary inquiry and other cases have already taught a lot of lessons which are already being applied in this case and which cannot be avoided in the current situation and new situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u28	I understand things are still in progress, as the Minister said. First of all, there is the adaptation of the policy rules. The Minister says that this is going to happen soon, but could we agree here on a time limit on which these policies could have been adapted? 'Cause I asked you a while ago. Secondly, there is the tax loss deposited with the Vpb. Could you send that to the Chamber as soon as Humanitas knows it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u29	Yes. The policy rules will soon be amended. That's really not something that's on the shelf. It's just being worked on very hard. That happens because of the WSW. So "Soon" is in this month or next. It's gotta be quick. I thought I had reassured Mr Koerhuis around the Vpb. It is not yet known what the write-off losses are in the context of the Vpb. That's what I just said. But I can assure you that the normal rules apply. That's what the bailiff told me. If Mr Koerhuis also wants to know exactly when I know, then I have to tell him: I simply do not know. Oh, no. Luckily, he doesn't want to know. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u30	No, like I said, we're not there yet. I'd just like to know that you'll send that information to the Chamber when you know. I am very curious to see how much tax loss has ultimately been deposited with the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u31	The Minister nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u32	Let us then agree in general terms that, when I have new information which I know from this debate that Mr Koerhuis is interested in, I am, of course, prepared to inform the Chamber about it. Then the consequences for the tenants. All the speakers, all the spokesmen, have called for broad attention to be paid to this. And that is, of course, right, because whatever went wrong in the past, the tenants who are now in these homes on the basis of contracts are not the cause of this and should not, of course, be burdened with the consequences. I very much agree with everyone who has said something about that. I think it is important that the merger should ensure that Humanitas' rental activities can continue. This means that the tenants of these 2,900 rental units... are the majority of them in Rotterdam, as we know.. will get another landlord, but it has no effect on the rental contracts. They keep their rent rights and everything that's attached to them. So I think it's a positive development for tenants. Home source will continue this activity. The tenants simply enjoy the same rent protection and can turn to the Rent Committee, etc. in case of any problems. But again, there is no reason to expect anything to change for them, except that, in a sense, there will be more security for them, because they will soon be part of a healthy, merged housing corporation. I therefore believe that everything is now being done to ensure that this merger is complete. It is planned that this will be the case by 1 July 2018. Of course, there are still a few steps to be taken. Mrs Beckerman may have had some concerns about that, but the Authority should agree. He's currently assessing the merger application. But because the guarantor has indicated that this is the most desirable and also the most financially beneficial solution, because Woonbron is positive about this, and because the settlement of the loans is arranged, everything points out that this can indeed be achieved and that this gives the tenants a bit more certainty, also for the future. Humanitas has also indicated that the tenant organisations have given a positive view on the merger with Woonbron. This is true of the questions that Members have asked about sitting tenants. There is a further question from Mr Ronnes, but others are also interested in the steps being taken against those responsible. I think that is a very legitimate and very understandable question. In the coming period, interested parties will consider whether there is sufficient grounds for legal action against the parties who have had a culpable share of the damage. The following steps have already been taken: there is an arbitration case between Humanitas Housing and Humanitas Care about the financial damage, the former board and the supervisory board have been held liable and a disciplinary complaint against the former auditor is being considered. So that's what happens about Humanitas. In general, former drivers can be held liable if it is established that they can be seriously accused. A driver's safeguard would be at odds with this and would therefore no longer be allowed under the revised Housing Act, which entered into force in 2015. Mr Ronnes also wondered whether he could or should have acted earlier. He mentioned the Authority housing corporations and also WSW. Humanitas was previously placed under enhanced supervision by the regulator and under special management at WSW in 2013. Since then, the Authority has had housing corporations and WSW Humanitas working on recovery. A restructuring plan has been put in place, the personal union has been unravelled and the administration has been put in order, so it has already started. In this particular case, the Authority found housing corporations and also WSW to have based themselves and also relied on the audit report. He moved in later. I was just saying that for that reason, it is also being considered to start a disciplinary case against the accountant. So that's been a complicating factor, I guess. The legislative amendment of 2015 therefore means that the control has been further strengthened. And now we are where we are. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of remaining questions. How has it been assessed whether the restructuring contribution is proportionate? I thought it was Mrs. Voortman who asked for it. When assessing an application for reorganisation, it should be assessed whether it is proportionate to grant that requested reorganisation contribution. The question that needs to be answered is whether the importance of housing justifies the other corporations having to pay the amount requested by means of a restructuring levy, because that is what it is all about. In doing so, all circumstances relevant to such a case shall be considered. The restructuring rule states that at least the contribution must be directed towards the continuation of the so-called SGEI activities identified by the municipality as necessary. It also looks at the relationship between these necessary work and the other work. Finally, other elements may also play a role in this, such as the size of the subsidy applied for, the wider impact on housing and the possible consequences if no restructuring aid is granted, for example for the sector's security system and investment capacity. These are all relevant considerations. Mrs Voortman also asked what the effect is on WSW's equity. The WSW currently has EUR 519 million in equity. That own funds shall be supplemented by the annual premium. It can be supplemented if necessary by collecting obligatory charges, i.e. a charge. So the 519 million is not yet the 125 million that has been promised. If that's paid out, you'd have to subtract it. Should there be a subsequent decision, you may find yourself in a situation where the obligation should be supplemented. That is the actual situation as it is today. A number of members, including Mrs Voortman and Mr Kops, have asked which parts of the opinion of the Aedes Advisory Committee have not been taken up in this case and why not. In its opinion, Aedes argued, among other things, for a phased payment of the aid. They didn't choose that. After all, the restoration was finally rejected, as you all said. The guarantor is going to deliver the 125 million in the end. The guarantor has indicated that it can pay out the necessary support and that it can be paid from the current fund assets. As we have just seen with each other, funds are needed for the loans that are outstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u33	There is a question from Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u34	Back up a little bit. The Minister indicated that the fund is still somewhat full, but that it may be necessary to supplement it if other cases are to come along for support from the WSW. We had talked about supplementing it. This can be done by the annual contribution or by the obligatory, i.e. by picking up an extra round. D66's concern is that this puts at risk other housing corporations, which may already be struggling to invest in sustainability and the need for social housing in certain areas. Can the investments that housing corporations still have to make be taken into account when retrieving money?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u35	I understand this remark very well. When we talk about other challenges for housing corporations such as building and investing in sustainability, we always say that they should also have resources for it. At the end of the day, this is the system we agreed on. It also depends on what size it would be. Overall, depending on how much money we are talking about, all over the whole sector, this is a relatively small contribution. Of course, the annual premium is also very small. I do agree with Mrs Van Eijs that it is annoying when a housing corporation has to contribute extra, because every euro you contribute to it cannot be spent on anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mrs. Van Eijs, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u37	Could the Minister perhaps explain in a letter in the future what effect that will have on investment capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u38	Yes, but I do not want to anticipate any future cases for which this fund should be called upon. I have now outlined that, on the basis of the current level of equity and the contribution made to Humanitas, it is possible to do so within the existing structures. If new resources are needed for other cases, this may be different. I shall come back to that in any case to the Chamber and then I could also give the context that Mrs Van Eijs is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u39	I might get a similar answer to the question I want to ask, but I'm just trying. Is it true that if there is obligatory taxation, it will be evenly distributed among all housing corporations, or is it true that corporations that have more loans are paying more? How does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u40	All this has been recorded, so I can also inform the Chamber, because we will simply apply the rules that are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u42	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a lot of questions left. Mr Kops asked whether other factors would be considered in addition to bankruptcy. In fact, I have just outlined how such an application for rehabilitation is assessed. I mentioned proportionality. Consideration should be given to whether housing issues justify corporations other than contributions. That also has to do with what we just talked about. In each case, the circumstances will be re-assessed. The policy rules state that it must in any case be taken into account that the restructuring contribution must be directed towards the activities of the services of general economic interest designated as necessary by the municipality. That is indeed a consideration that is involved in the assessment by the repairer and the guarantor. Mr. Chairman. I have answered the questions in the order of the speakers, I hope. I would like to point out that the questions put by Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Kops were already answered in the first part of my reply and, I hope, satisfied. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u44	Thank you. I'll see if there's still a need for a second term. I've seen some motions going around. You have another question, Mr. Koerhuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u45	I need a second term. And I'd like to ask you if we could suspend for maybe ten or fifteen minutes. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u46	Let me see if the other Members are in need of that. I don't see a lot of mood. I'd like to accommodate you by suspending for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u47	I am happy to give the floor first to Mr Koerhuis. If you can talk to each other nicely, you might as well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yes. I have two motions. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, at present, corporate directors cannot always be held personally responsible when public money is to be used for losses of failing housing corporations;]] [[noting that housing corporation Geertruidenberg has given a so-called "financial discharge" to the former corporation manager;]] [[noting that the driver cannot be held personally responsible for losses of Geertruidenberg;]] [[calls on the government to remove this perverse incentive and to allow corporations to contribute financially to maladministration if public money is to be used,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Koerhuis, Kops and Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-469]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u49	There is a certain logic in itself that drivers who have indeed failed pay for it. But I've had these kinds of discussions when it comes to care. And I think that this week we had another debate about a bank that has also been in trouble in the past. Does this mean that the VVD now believes in all these situations that, when it comes to public money, drivers have to pay for the damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u50	We're talking about housing corporations here. I'm the spokesperson living. I propose in this motion today that we do so for housing corporation directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u51	Why should what applies to directors of housing corporations not also apply to directors of health care institutions? I assume the VVD wants to be consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u52	I suggest that Mrs Beckerman brings that in during a care debate. Oh, sorry. I suggest that Mrs Voortman brings that in during a care debate and not during a living debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u53	Here is another question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u54	We've had something similar to the Top Income Standards Act. I supported this motion at the time, because I was surprised that the VVD also wanted to be firm in the semi-public sector. I would like to ask, through Mr Koerhuis, whether his group would like to take a bit of one-sided action towards the semi-public sector, because he is taking on the role of the outsider here. It is useful for colleagues, for me, and in all honesty for the assessment of motions, if there is a bit of consistency in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u55	I think this is the same question as Mrs Voortman's, but I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u56	We had this discussion earlier at the legislative consultation on living in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u57	The Minister indicated in the first term that the issues we are discussing here are being dealt with. There's arbitration, ex-drivers are being called in, and there's disciplinary charges. What is your motion going to add to the pathways that are running? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u58	That, for example, what happened in Geertruidenberg, the discharge, does not happen anymore. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u59	Let me wait for the Minister's answer. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u60	You continue with your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand Vestia's making a profit again. That's good news. 675 million euros of public money went to Vestia. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that housing corporation Vestia makes a profit;]] [[whereas 675 million euros of public money went to Vestia;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how and at what time Vestia can repay the 675 million euro public money with this profit, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the next reorganisation decision on Vestia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koershuis, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-470]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you. I'll take a look around. Does Mr Nijboer need a second term? No. Neither does Mrs Beckerman, like Mr Ronnes and Mrs Voortman. Mr Kops does, I think. I got one!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u64	I even have three motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the directors of housing corporations are responsible for any financial problems;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, as a condition for financial support from the Social Housing Fund, it is included that the responsible wrongdoers fly off the track,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the directors of housing corporations are responsible for any financial problems;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that misdirectors of housing corporations are jointly and severally held liable for the debt-to-equity financial loss which they prove to have caused,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-471]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-472]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u65	The Minister said that Humanitas' tenants are making progress. The Minister talked about security towards the future. Of course, all this is beautiful, but the tenants benefit mainly from lower rents. This applies not only to the tenants of Humanitas, but to all tenants in the country. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that rents in the corporate sector have increased by 17% since 2012;]] [[Whereas the tenants have been squeezed and abandoned massively;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that rents in the corporation sector are reduced by 17%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-473]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u66	Yes. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the directors of housing corporations are responsible for any financial problems; calls on the Government to ensure that, as a condition for financial support from the Social Housing Fund, it is included that the responsible wrongdoers fly off the track, and goes to the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u67	Thank you. Mrs Van Eijs does not need a second term either. The Minister needs a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u68	I give the floor to the Minister to give her an opinion on the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr. Chairman. The operative part of the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I would like to say to Mr Koerhuis that it is a good thing that we have new legislation. All this must not be allowed to happen in the new legislation. If there is maladministration, the driver may be held liable. The authority will see to that. That's exactly what that law provides for. In that sense, I fully agree with what he is asking for in his motion. I should therefore like to leave it to the Chamber. I would point out, however, that it is already regulated by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u70	It may be governed by the law, but I hope it will be done in practice. I would also like to inform you that the motion in part No. 470 has also been tabled by Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u71	Yeah, it's useful to know this. The Minister immediately decided on the motion on item No. 470.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u72	Yeah, I find that motion a little more complicated. I can't just come back to earlier decisions. As long as Vestia complies with the agreements and meets the conditions of the underlying plan, we must also comply with the same conditions and decisions here. The restructuring aid was intended to remove Vestia from the financial difficulties and to enable them to continue their SGEI activities. The legal framework does not allow us to return to it as long as those conditions are met. So for that reason, unfortunately, I have to discourage that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u73	675 million is a lot of money raised by tenants across the country. It's a research motion, in which we ask to investigate if it's possible. And now the Minister says, no, I don't want to investigate. The reason for this is that the legal framework is not yet in place. Isn't this perhaps a reason to look at that legal framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u74	I have mentioned several reasons. One reason is indeed the legal framework. This big case has had a lot of consequences. I refer to the parliamentary survey and the legislative amendment. In addition, there are agreements on the granting of this aid. I believe that we must be very careful to ensure that all parts of the agreements that have been made are met by Vestia. Certainly, I very much agree with that, but I find it difficult to make another appointment by means of this motion. So I can see it's a research motion. To do it through a legislative amendment seems even more complicated to me. I am very willing to take another look at those appointments. No one would benefit from the fact that public money is not being spent in a good way, but, again, I would like to support the decision taken and the conditions laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u75	So the minister's maintaining her judgment... dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u77	Finally, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u78	I am not referring in my motion to the current agreements either. New agreements must be made quickly. My motion asks to investigate in those new appointments whether that 675 million can be returned to the tenants in the rest of the country. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about the current appointments. It's a research motion that asks to look at the framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u79	However, I will stick to my judgment, although I would like to assure Mr Koerhuis that he will look very closely at the agreements and conditions and, of course, take into account how far Vestia is now in those agreements that have been made and to what extent they have indeed come out of the problems. I would like to do that, but I do not want to commit at this stage, so I advise the motion that this will lead to agreements with which we could get that money back. That is why the motion goes too far in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u80	You're making a commitment to find out what else to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u81	If Mr Koerhuis appreciates that, I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u82	When will you come back to that and in what way? I think Mr Koerhuis appreciates that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u83	Then I'll ask you to put the whole issue of where we are on paper. I can have that here in a couple of months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u84	Finally, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u85	In a few months? I would like to have it well before the next reorganisation decision and before the new arrangements with Vestia. Then we can judge it as a chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u86	The minister is about her own planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u87	I agree with Mr Koerhuis to provide information on the state of play of Vestia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u88	Suppose this motion is passed. Does the Minister want to include in the information what consequences will there be if you have to repay this money again? I am thinking, for example, of building new homes or making them more sustainable. You can only spend your euro once. If Vestia has to pay back, isn't that at the expense of other things?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u89	Yes, but Mrs. Voortman has also heard that I wasn't that far. This is a like-dan situation for me. Once again, the verdict on the motion remains "dissuade," but I will inform the Chamber of the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u90	Thank you. Then the motion to part No. 471.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u91	The motion in part No. Mr Kops's 471 proposal is to be able to intervene vigorously, including against drivers. The good thing about the current situation is that we can do so, and that we have an authority to do so, which takes appropriate measures in the event of malpractice. That is not a condition for support. No, those appropriate measures actually precede that. That is a situation in the new law with which I am very pleased and which is actually better than what Mr Kops is asking here. That's why I'm dissuading his motion. The motion in part No. Mr Kops (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Kops on his excellent report. I would also like to say from this motion that it sees the practice as it is today. That is also the responsibility of the authority. Contrary to the motion for a resolution, I find the content of this motion to be supportive of the practice. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The final motion is the motion in part No. 473 by Mr Kops. I believe that Mr Kops is beginning to show some predictable behavior here. That's always nice. He is very consistent in his call for lower rental prices. Let me therefore be consistent by saying that it is important that housing corporations can invest in housing and sustainability and that we already have a moderate rental policy. I am in favour of this moderate rent policy, but a further reduction as proposed by Mr Kops would put too much pressure on the financial conditions to invest and make it more sustainable. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u92	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. Since 2012, rents have increased by 17% on average. What is moderate in the Minister's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u93	The corporations comply with the agreements made about the rent increase they are allowed to make. It's limited from year to year. If you add that up a number of years in a row, even though the year is limited year by year, you will of course get higher percentages at some point. The most important thing I think is that there are agreements about moderate rent increases that the landlords should just keep. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u94	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-10.u95	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. I thank the Minister and Members of Parliament and suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m.
