ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the proposal for an own initiative Temporary Act on the adjustment of the rate of discount of Mr Van Rooijen, Section 34606. I would like to welcome Mr Van Rooijen. He is supported in the defence of his proposal in trade union K by Mr Lutjens, Professor of Pension Law of the VU in Amsterdam, Mr De Brouwer, author of "21 myths and falsehoods about our pension" and Mr Van Kuijk and Mr Van den Brink, both collaborators of the 50PLUS group. As MPs, we all know it's very exciting to make our own bill. Then you'll need that support very much. So good luck! Of course we still have an advisor in our midst. That is the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. He will therefore act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term of office took place on 24 January. Today we are discussing the first-term response and the second term of the Chamber. I'm seeing someone at the Interrupt Microphone right now. That is the esteemed member of GroenLinks, Mr Grashoff. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, today's first-term response by the petitioner and the minister is on the role and the second term of the Chamber. My proposal would be to keep the second term of the Chamber not today but at a later date. My group would like to think again about this very carefully in response to the reply. We also agreed yesterday at the procedural meeting to hold a round table on the financial review framework, including the accounting rate. We also consider this information to be extremely important in order to make up for our trade-offs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	Since this is an order proposal, let me see if the other Members agree, because if there is a majority in favour of this order proposal, we are going to take a decision on it; we are going to make a decision at all. I'm gonna take stock of it. I think I saw Mr Van Weyenberg first at the interrupting microphone. I am therefore happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would regret this in itself, because my group would have liked to ask questions, for example to Mr Grashoff: is the change of direction in which young people and workers were defended by his party actually being continued and his party joins the SP, 50PLUS and the PVV? But I'm mainly looking at the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	If I have seen it correctly, Mr Van Kent of the SP Group was second to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. I believe that there is still enough opportunity for Mr Van Weyenberg to ask such questions, for example this afternoon. But support for Mr Grashoff's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a very important issue: pensions. It's also very technical. I therefore support Mr Grashoff's proposal to do the round table first and then the second at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. I tend towards support, but I am also curious to see what the author of the legislative proposal thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	As chairman, I know that's not what the petitioner is about. We're gonna go over that as a room. The petitioners are our guests today. It's really up to all of you. I'm gonna count the distribution later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. We hope that the round table will give some more wisdom to some parties. So we're okay with doing the second term a little bit later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	If that means that Mr Grashoff is going to say very sensible things in his second term: support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	I note that we have a majority in favour of this order proposal. That's how we're gonna do it. So we now have Mr Van Rooijen's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	I would very much like to give Mr Van Rooijen the floor for the first-term answer. You cannot follow it all, but here in the Chamber it is said that the adviser, the minister, is going to say something. He's definitely gonna do that. He nods; that's what we're gonna hold him to. But first, I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen for the first-term answer on his own initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Today, March 14, 2018, we are gathered in this plenary room to answer the questions and comments of the Chamber in the first term when considering the proposal of the Van Rooijen member's law on temporary amendment of the Pension Act and the Compulsory Occupational Pension Scheme Act in connection with the introduction of a measure to, inter alia, adjust the discount rate at which pension funds have to calculate their liabilities, Section 34606. Mr. Chairman. I have already given you a schedule which allows you to follow it well, and I gave it to the Registry. I will start today with a general introduction which will address the underlying problem, our solution and the arguments that it contains. I will also answer the questions raised by several groups. I will then respond to the unique questions and comments of the spokesmen of the coalition parties and then to the unique questions and comments of the spokesmen of the opposition parties. With that order, of course, I do not express any preference. I will conclude my first term with a proposal to all my colleagues. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, an explanation of the current system and the problem-solving situation. The answer given by the Minister for Social Affairs to yesterday's questions by Mr Grashoff was to me the second biggest disappointment of the last week. Of course, it is not special if a D66 minister also proclaims D66 policy. I also understand that Mr Van Weyenberg and his supporters are glad that someone is right about them again. But I don't read any news in the Minister's answers. I am not going to fail the Minister, because his officials have told him that there is no news in his answers. The minister doesn't want...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Van Rooijen, I am going to interrupt you for a moment, because of course your appeal has been made to Mr Van Weyenberg and I would like to give him the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. Actually, an appeal to you: I think the Minister is here on behalf of the Crown.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	It's been noted. We will continue with Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. I said I would not fail the Minister, because his officials told him that there is no news in his answers. I would add that the answer is, of course, from the Minister. The Minister does not want that was the bridge to the next sentence.... that the pension system and the calculation rate become a playball of conflicting interests. 50PLUS does not want the pension system and the accounting rate to be a playball of central bankers. This was the bridge. So, after these answers from the Minister, we are exactly where we were, namely at the beginning of this important debate. Mr. Chairman. Although this debate is not about the system as such, I have to make a few comments on it which are important to understand the legislative proposal. As has been said, my group has views on the system and what should be done to ensure long-term sustainability, but that is not what this proposal is about. The present bill is temporary by its nature and prevents unjustified and unnecessary reductions in pension benefits and claims of perhaps millions of Dutch, working, young and old. The system as we know it is built around a number of principles. You pay a premium and in return you build up a benefit right. The contribution is usually calculated on the basis of the building-up rate, the pension base and the expected return for the period between the building-up and the benefit. If you pay contributions and your pension fund makes a return that is significantly higher than the expected return on which the premium is based, you can expect your benefit to be insured. And if the difference between the expected return and the actual return is much higher than the level of inflation, you can expect the pension benefit to be indexed. All these conditions have been met on average over the past few decades. There were bad years, there were also very good years. On average, a return higher than the expected return in the premium built-in has been achieved. But because of the extreme sensitivity of interest rates, the monetary experiment of the European Central Bank leads to securities that are not only undesirable, but also do not reflect reality. If there is to be a reduction, you must have a very good story. There is also an additional argument. The Pension Act was adopted in 2006 and entered into force a year later. Rules were laid down within the financial review framework attached to the law and one of those rules concerned the discount rate for the calculation of the present value of the liabilities. The pension sector then felt that the Pension Act and its elaboration improved the previous situation. The rules for 2006 imposed a maximum discount rate of 4%. That's all it was supposed to be, even though market interest rates were even much higher for a while. This ceiling was removed with the result that coverage rates increased in 2007 because the discount rate was on average 5% at that time. This was the reason to switch from the pension sector, also to avoid discounts on the ABP, for example. It's possible. However, even after the interest rate started to fall again from 5% to 4% after the 2008 crisis, there was not much going on. The discount rate continued to fall to 3% and then dive further, but the pension funds had meat on their bones and by refraining from indexing for a few years, it was thought at the time, the buffers would recover themselves. But in 2014 a new situation arose when the European Central Bank manipulated interest rates down to zero by means of a policy of quantitative expansion of the money market. There were even periods when short and medium deposits had negative interest rates and governments could borrow money with negative interest rates. That policy of the European Central Bank, that intervention in the money markets, so that there could in fact no longer be a normal market rate, is the reason for us to submit our own initiative proposal. That was in November 2016. It is still lacking today, and even more so, a good and acceptable story showing why discounts would be necessary. The rules do not provide for a heavily manipulated discount rate. And that is the reason for us to call for a temporary adjustment of the rules. That is why we believe that we should avoid the reductions that threaten four of the five large pension funds and a number of smaller pension funds in 2020 and 2021. Recent interest rate developments seem to have reduced the likelihood of this happening slightly. Mr Omtzigt pointed out this in the first term. But, I say, that can change again. And if the proposals we have put forward do not find mercy in the eyes of colleagues, then I invite the Chamber to come forward with better proposals. Anyway, the discounts due to the extreme ECB policy must be removed. In order to avoid these reductions, Mr Omtzigt, in particular, wants monetary policy to change. But then he will accept the threatening reductions, because we have no powers in the monetary field. Moreover, I agree with Mr Omtzigt's statement, but I have said that before. At the same time, the law does allow us to intervene in the financial review framework in the event of changed economic conditions underlying the hypothesis. This is explicitly stated in the regulations. But that glove will not be caught, while the circumstances I am referring to are also defined in Mr Omtzigt's own-initiative paper as exceptional and even extreme. I would also like to congratulate Mr Omtzigt once again on his own-initiative paper, which was discussed in the Chamber with the Minister at the time. Mr Van der Linde wants us to tell the honest story: we are making good returns, but the money is not yet in and we should not distribute it. I would like to make it clear that Mr Van der Linde is mistaken. The money that has been earned through returns is definitely inside. The ABP, the General Civil Pension Fund, really has a invested capital of over 400 billion. And for the entire pension sector, there really is more than 1,350 billion of invested funds in the hands of all pension funds. That's twice our national income. That percentage is the highest in the world. The direct return on those invested funds is around 2% or higher. This means that the income from interest, rental income and dividends will bring in more than enough money to meet all the obligations. Out of a total of 500 billion in nominal liabilities, the ABP has a invested capital of 400 billion. Commitments over the next 70 years are already 80% in cash. The ABP only needs to make a 1% return to meet all nominal liabilities. If we really have to wait until all the resources for the next 70 years are in cash, Mr Van der Linde is working in a ridiculously childish model. Because that is not how the funded system works. Does Mr Van der Linde not realise that we are talking about spending spread over the next 70 years? In such a situation, it is rather absurd to take as a starting point that the money has to be inside before it can be spent. There is much more coming into the funds as a whole now than going out. I call it ABP, with about 10 billion in premiums and 10 billion in benefits. But there's a cash dividend, interest and rent income coming in 8 billion extra. That means that every year 8 billion is left in the greenhouse. This is invested year after year, which leads to an increase in the capital of the investment machine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Van Rooijen, you have an interruption by Mr. Van der Linde of the VVD Group. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	I'm a little surprised. I believe that Mr Van Rooijen is submitting a legislative proposal, we are asking questions about it and he is answering them. But now I have all kinds of questions from Mr Van Rooijen. I'm kind of wondering if I'm gonna have to tooth it now, or if we're gonna do it in the second term. My point was this: yes, there's a lot more money in the pots. We'll soon agree on that. It's heading towards the 1,400 billion. But if you calculate it neatly, you'll see that there's no room left in it. My point during the first period was this: why don't we wait until all those promised returns that Mr Van Rooijen sees coming have occurred before we start indexing again? That was my question. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	I did not talk about indexing, at least this proposal is not about that. I've indicated that there's 1,400 billion in cash. ABP now has 400 billion in nominal terms for liabilities of 500 billion. In the future, you will need only 1% return to meet all those obligations. 1%. This means that the benefits are secured. I am not talking today about indexation, because there are additional regulatory requirements for indexation, given the current structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	That raises additional questions. That is why I would now like to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	I can't bring this sum home for a while. I ask Mr Van Rooijen either now or, as we are going to suspend between the first and second periods, to indicate in the second period where that 1% comes from. At present, they can count on an average of about 2% of their return. I assume that Mr Van Rooijen meant 1% extra return, because if they reach 1%, they will achieve less than the interest rate term structure and they will have to cut. That is the first point. The second point is whether this 1% is necessary only for current yields or also for indexation. For indexing, additional returns will have to be achieved on top of that. That is precisely the discussion we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you for these questions. Look at the current calculations. The ABP has a coverage rate of 104 % at discount rates, a discount rate of 1.5%. I'm assuming you can meet all the obligations if you have 100%. So you need less than the interest rate currently used for the coverage rate that is a few points above 100. So if you're assuming 100, you need less than 1.5. Whether it is 1 or 1.1, I can calculate you later, but that is the reasoning. A calculation rate of 1.5 leads to a coverage rate of 104 for the ABP, so for 100% you need less than that 1.5, or that 1.4 it is. That's all I wanted to say. So you need less than the current interest rate to get 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u27	I just got the idea that a calculation was made of what was needed for the indexing. In fact, I would like to accept Mr Van Rooijen's proposal to see this somewhat on paper. In my opinion, any difference of one tenth of a percent lower calculation rate would push the coverage level of the APB below 100%. So it is extremely sensitive if you adjust the calculation rate even a little bit, which Mr Van Rooijen actually proposes. Anyway, I'd like to look forward to the calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u28	Perhaps it would be a good idea to clarify what I have just said to colleagues, including Mr Van Weyenberg. Out of a total of 500 billion in nominal liabilities, the ABP has a invested capital of 400 billion. Commitments over the next 70 years are already 80% in cash. And now it comes: the APB only needs to make 1% return to meet all the nominal obligations. So I am not talking about indexing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u29	This leads to a question from Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u30	This scares me. We saw in the election campaign last year that Mr Krol, a colleague of Mr Van Rooijen's, was no longer going to index the AOW. Now I see just a sum in which Mr Van Rooijen seems to accept never indexing pensions again. Because that's what he's doing: he's gonna make all these sums and he's gonna yell "that's fantastic," but all those sums are based on never indexing again. Mr Van Rooijen would like to take away the picture that he does not want to index in the future but only want to use that money now to spend a little more today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u31	I have already said twice that this calculation is not based on indexing pension liabilities. I have just said that there is already 80% in cash to meet the commitments of 500 billion nominally because there is already a capital investment of 400 billion. The APB now has a coverage rate of about 1.4 % of 104%, so if you cover 100%, you can meet the obligations and you need even less than 1.4, i.e. 1 or over 1. Moreover, I will submit that calculation. So it has nothing to do with indexing. By the way, if you look at returns, indexing is quite possible, but that is precisely what is not possible in the existing financial review framework, the ftk, but I am not talking about that right now. Of course, I would also like to see indexed, but by the current rules, look at the answer given by the Minister to Mr Grashoff in response to Mr De Jong's speech. We don't work with expected returns. There is, of course, a much higher rate of return than the calculation rate. Let's take a 6% return at an accounting rate of 1.5. Then, strictly speaking, there is 4.5% space to index. It used to be the same when we had the fixed calculation rate of 4% and the returns were way above that. However, I am not talking now about indexing but purely about what the nominal obligation of the ABP is. At today's calculation rate, there is a coverage rate of 103%. If you assume 100% to cover all obligations, you need a lower return than the calculation rate of 1,4 or what it is exactly, because that changes by the day. I'll be happy to discuss that calculation as soon as we speak again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u32	That is a very nice undertaking to the Chamber. For a follow-up question I give it to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u33	I would like to look forward to those sums and I hope the Minister will respond to them, but I am getting quite a kind of aha-erlebnis after the 50PLUS voodoo jokes that Mr Omtzigt had already filled in in the election time for the Second Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u34	I have to take a stand against that. We don't have any election debates here. We're talking facts and figures here. If you want to make facts and figures out of me something far beyond the truth, then you shouldn't argue with me like that. At least I will not risk that kind of discussion with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u35	Then there is a follow-up question from Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u36	I notice that Mr Van Rooijen is reacting very irritatedly. That may be true, but it was precisely the facts that proved to be the problem in the previous debate. This has nothing to do with elections. This is about whether you're trying to fool people with fake jokes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u37	I would like to thank Mr Van Weyenberg for his head-in-chief, because I will go into detail, perhaps more than he likes, on all the facts and figures that underpin my own initiative proposal. So I'd say wait a minute for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u38	But before you go any further, Mr Omtzigt would like to make an interruption. Oh, no, he doesn't, so go ahead, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u39	Let me take a look at where I left off, following the interruption by Mr Van der Linde. I'm moving on. At the current low risk-free and also manipulated discount rate, virtually all pension funds, including the largest, such as the ABP and the Pension Fund for Health and Welfare, have sufficient resources to meet all of the liabilities they incur, as their coverage rate is 100% or more. Why is there still a buffer to be built up at this low rate, which is more than 100%? Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on Mr van der Linde's assertion, among others, that we are coming up with this proposal on the pensions of our children or grandchildren. As long as our children or grandchildren do not yet have a pension, we cannot meet their claims, because they do not yet have one. In the supplementary pension each builds up his or her own pension rights. The capital of 1,350 billion is intended to meet the rights and claims of the people who have made claims through their pension contributions. It's deferred pay in a private system. Let me make it clear once again: it is not Community money or, of course, public money. It is money that a specific group of people is entitled to, namely those who have paid a premium for it. Collective pension assets are intended for today's collective claims. New cost-covering premiums will be paid in due course for new claims. Well, cost-covering premiums... For example, the expected return on the premiums is 2.8% for ABP. So that is much higher than the current risk-free interest rate of about 1.5%. That is what Mr Van der Linde is referring to when he talks about a premium that is being lost. I agree with him. This loss is not made by the contributor but by the pension fund. This is at the expense of the existing claims, of the assets, and therefore has an additional negative impact on the level of cover. This is an advantage for the contributor, but this means that every year 10 billion is withdrawn from the assets intended for pensioners and sleepers. I refer to Figure 9 of the annex to the note following the report. There you can see that the cumulative effect of this practice for the years 2015-2021 increases to 70 billion. That is 70 billion that will not be paid out in this period and in the coming years, and otherwise, if that amount had been paid, as a cost-covering premium would also lead to large additional returns and much greater capital. I do not have to explain to my fellow speakers, particularly Mr Van der Linde, that, as I said, there is no return on the 70 billion in muffled premiums now and will not be there, unfortunately. In the review of the financial review framework, the Minister noted that pension fund premium coverage rates have decreased significantly since 2015, around 85%. He mentioned that as a matter of concern, and I agree with him. This low level of coverage is detrimental to retired members of pension funds. But the Minister leaves it at that point and does not take action. Mr Van Weyenberg in the defence of his household booklet refers to the fact that the money has to be earned before it can be spent. I don't think that's a good comparison. A pension fund is not a household. A pension fund manages the capital of contributions deposited and thus realizes a situation where only 20% of the final benefits come from the premiums and 80% from the returns from the investments. That doesn't have to be here today. This is how the capital cover system works. This capacity will be further developed over the next few decades. In part, this capital is formed even after the pension has entered into force. All of this is known as the 20-40-40 rule: 20% is the premium, 40% is the return in the working period and 40% is still built up during the retirement period. Pension funds generally do this extremely carefully and thus achieve a satisfactory return, even in times of crisis, as we experienced after 2007. For pension funds, the fall or increase in interest rates and stock exchange prices are not risks, but phenomena. I'll explain. A sensible policy allows pension funds to arm themselves against fluctuations in the long term. You may not compare a pension fund with a household book. It's not earning first and then spending it. Does Mr Van Weyenberg have any idea of the macroeconomic consequences if we really treat pension funds as a household booklet? With our proposal, we're not gonna spend anything. We want to stop a threatening reduction in expenditure, if there were reductions, because it would be unfair and unfair and because it would affect everyone: the pensioners, but certainly also, and significantly, the workers and young participants. Perhaps the honourable spokesperson of D66 has a point with his household booklet if he means to give an analysis of the health of pension funds and to base himself on a cash flow analysis. How much money comes in and how much goes out and can the incoming and outgoing current be in balance with each other? But that's not how the financial review framework works. This is based on a liquidation-based balance sheet analysis, as if a pension fund had to meet all obligations in the event of liquidation today. And, of course, that is not the case. A pension fund is a continuum that can never go bankrupt, because if the need comes to the man or the woman, then there will be a reduction in the pension fund other than in the insurance sector. It is indeed about the incoming money and the outgoing money. Does Mr Van Weyenberg realize that, with an average direct return of 2% of what most funds achieve, there is no need to sell any of the assets to get enough money to pay pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u40	That is a good moment for Mr van Weyenberg to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u41	And if that were to happen, and let's all hope that it isn't, people will get an amount that will never be indexed again. And then I think you're pretty bad off, but that aside. The essence is that a pension fund is, of course, about the relationship between what is in possession and how it develops on the one hand and what obligations are in relation to it on the other. In reply to my question, Mr Van Rooijen makes a very strong plea and says that a large part of the pension funds' financial resources come from the returns on investment. I totally agree with him on that. That is, in fact, correct. But that is without prejudice to the fact that, in this system, when it comes to looking at today's health, you have to consider whether you can raise pensions today. If these returns occur in the coming years, you can count them at that moment and you can base yourself on that in the question of whether you can index. But Mr Van Rooijen can't deny that if you start from expected returns, you're actually going to spend some of the future income today. That seems to me to be the real consequence if you assume expected returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u42	This is a bit of a repetition of the discussion we have just had. This proposal and my defence and answer are not about whether and when and how many can be indexed. I merely point out, also in the balance sheet reasoning I have just given, that with the calculation rate we now have on the balance sheet, whether the assets are sufficient to meet the nominal liabilities, that is to say, taking into account their cash valuation. That's all I want to say. I have added that if you achieve a direct return in the coming years, so just dividend, interest and rent income, of 2%, you can therefore generously meet those nominal liabilities, because then you are already 0.5% above the current accounting rate. That's all I wanted to say. And that has nothing to do with putting future benefits at risk with a direct return of 2% if you use an interest rate of 1.5%. Then a pension fund can meet all the obligations. It's even stronger. The ABP, Dick Sluimers, once calculated it in a presentation for the KNVG. In the case of ABP, it is a cash flow-based issue, and I have already mentioned it as much as 10 billion in pension contributions and 10 billion in benefits. Extra gets to the ABP I'm talking about a few years ago, it hasn't turned out to be 8 billion in dividends, interest and rent income. If you add that cash flow to it, then for the next twenty years all liabilities in cash will be met, even on a cash basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. This raises another follow-up question. I shall go first to Mr Van Weyenberg before I go to Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u44	Yes, Mr President, while we are doing the second term later, I would actually like to ask the initiator if he is going to make sums... I think it was about ten years ago that Mr Sluimers of the ABP said that interest rates could only rise. We've seen what's happened since then. It is a bit like Mr Van Rooijen's proposal: interest rates are now so low, it can't be lower, let's just do it. I would like to hear from the initiator what the level of coverage of the ABP would have been today if we had done what Mr Sluimers proposed. That's what I like to hear from him. That makes me extremely curious. However, I would like to hear from him what would happen to the returns if interest rates rose by 1 or 2 percentage points in the coming year. He hopes that, I hope that, and I don't think those returns will be that bright anymore. I would ask Mr Van Rooijen to do both if he is going to do the math.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u46	It is getting more and more interesting, because I like facts and figures and I will be happy to continue to provide them. I am aware that Mr Sluimers made that remark at the time. It's not a coincidence that I mention his name. You're talking about ten years ago, I'm talking about a presentation he gave in 2012, which is now six, five years ago. In that He showed those sums. I'll talk to you about that, too. I still have that presentation about those cash flows for the next 20 years. I would like to add that Mr Sluimers subsequently made it clear once again that our pension fund is perfectly sound. He has once said that that statement is not mine, but his saying that there are so many returns being made that you could also index. But that's not what we're talking about here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u47	I propose that we discuss this now, so I will give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg again before I really give Mr Van Dijk the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you for that answer. Mr Van Rooijen and I think differently, but let us have those figures on the table. I understand that he will try to provide the two things I asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u49	Yes, I will look at exactly what Mr Sluimers has said about it at your request. I read it, too. That's right. I'll send it to you. And if that's what you want, I can also come back to that whole cash flow analysis of the ABP back then because I think it's fundamental to the discussion we're having.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u50	I think that we should also get together here as fundamentally as well which data should be on the table for the good second term later. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u51	I asked for two specific things. What would have happened if, at the time Mr. Sluimers said "the interest rate can only be raised" on the basis of that interest? What would have been the coverage rate today? And what does a 1 or 2 percentage points higher interest rate do for the returns? I am not getting very clear whether Mr Van Rooijen is going to provide me with those answers. I would ask him to do so, and if he fails to do so, I understand that space is always limited as initiator, I have also been standing there once, and I would ask the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u52	I would be grateful if Mr Van Weyenberg could do that even after this debate, and I would like to know exactly what he means by that second question. Do you mean a 1 or 2 percent higher interest rate or do you mean a 1 or 2 percent higher return? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u53	Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u54	The first was indeed about what if in the past we had kept to the interest rate proposed by Mr Sluimers. The second question is: what does a 1 or 2 percentage points higher interest rate for the returns of pension funds do? The Netherlands Bank has said a few words about it. I am curious whether Mr Van Rooijen agrees or whether he has other figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u55	Do you mean the 1% or 2% higher calculation rate or interest rate? That's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr Van Rooijen protects with the returns all the time. These have been partly high in recent years because interest rates have fallen. As a result, bonds became worth more on the balance sheet, for example. I ask Mr Van Rooijen and at the same time the Minister what the opposite effect would be, before we base ourselves here on things that are too optimistic afterwards. I don't think that's what anyone wants when it comes to pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u57	Then there's been a misunderstanding. I am not talking about returns, because, indeed, if interest rates fall, bond prices rise. I talked about the direct return on dividend interest and rent. This has nothing to do with the effects on bond prices as a result of a fall in interest rates. But I think we're gonna get out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u58	I think so, too. We can all read the minutes of this sitting before that second deadline, because it will be a while before that second deadline takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u59	I said in my first term that I appreciated the initiative of 50PLUS. That's great! Pensions is a subject that plays. There are serious concerns about our pension system, also in view of the future. 50PLUS does not wait, but takes its own initiative. I do have a question about that. I asked that question in my first term, but I'm asking it now. The debate between Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Rooijen was about possible effects for the future. I'm very curious about the generational effects. That is what I want to know for the weighing of this proposal. The Council of State is rather harsh about it in its judgment. But I would like to hear from Mr Van Rooijen whether he has more insight into what the generation effects are. Because we have one collective pot. We also want to move to a different collective system, but we always have to consider the generational effects, the effects for young participants and for older participants. Can Mr Van Rooijen say a little more about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u60	I shall come back to that in detail later. I have already indicated this in the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg. I am going to speak in detail about the report of the Central Planning Office of January last year. So I will come back to it. You mentioned the Council of State. In its opinion, the Council of State pointed out in particular that the initial proposal contained a temporary increase of about 0.5% to 2%, but that there was no limitation on its temporality. On the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, I considered it wise to add that it is for five years. The report of the Central Planning Bureau describes the effects in the summary on page 1. This shows that the effects are very limited, other than if you permanently set the soil interest rate to 2%. With a temporary increase of up to five years, that effect is therefore limited, as the Planning Bureau also said. I also met the wishes and comments of the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. Although my group has submitted an initiative legislative proposal to the Chamber aimed at preventing pension reductions that would result from the ECB's interventions, a number of colleagues discussed the pension system as such in the first period. The drama of the financial review framework I have sometimes called it "financial future' and the long-term interest rate structure I can also make something different from its abbreviation, but let me just say that the standards for assessing the financial position of pension funds have been completely detached from the investment results that pension funds have been achieving for decades. I would like to point out once again the good returns that pension funds have been earning for decades. They are higher, even higher than the 2% I was just talking about. That was just the direct return. Those returns were always above that, by the way. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has come out of the crisis well. Most Dutch banks are out of danger. Public finances are in order. It's one big hosanna story. But at the same time, why is it that we are being made to believe that pension funds are very poor? It's going great with the economy. Everything's fine. The latest figures show that too. Growth is even higher. Employment is rising enormously. Unemployment is falling. Who wants to tell me that, despite the fact that the economy is getting stronger, pension funds are getting poorer and poorer? Mr President, this really is a framing and almost a basing of our pension system and pension funds. I find that incomprehensible. If, as in the crisis, it goes badly in Europe, in the world and with the economy, if unemployment rises and so on, then it also affects pension funds. But if things are going very well then that is a natural thing and an economical thing is going very well again with pension funds. I would like someone to stand up in this Chamber to make it clear to me that I am mistaken and that there would still be an economist in the world who would say: yes, but those pension funds in the Netherlands, the best in the world, are almost bankrupt; they are very poor. Even if they had to meet their obligations today, they could do so in their entirety. That's something I've actually been awake for a little while. Now that the economy is doing so much better than when I submitted the proposal, I think that my story, the defence of this proposal, has become stronger and stronger. As I said, the Netherlands has come out of the crisis well, but pension funds have actually suffered little from the crisis because of their good investment results. The capacity has doubled in these crisis years; it is almost unbelievable. How can you say that these funds are poor, whereas in the last ten years they have even doubled their assets? This is due to the accounting reasoning laid down in our rules, namely that you have to work with risk-free interest in the calculation of nominal liabilities. That is, by the way, a risk-free interest rate, if you look at it, which does not exist throughout the world. Han de Jong has only shown with a table in his article in Me Judice that with our 1.4% we have by far the lowest calculation rate and that the average is generously above 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u61	There he is, the interruption. And that belongs to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u62	And also an economist, but not an economist who's going to claim that the funds are very poor. No one here said that. I also think that Mr Van Rooijen is trying to put someone on the spot. My question is this. We were just talking about the financial supervisory framework. The interest rate we use is based on that very safe assumption that if we promise people a pension, we want 97.5% to be sure that we can keep that promise. If we raise that interest rate, for that is what Mr Van Rooijen wants to be sure of?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u63	I would like to point out that I am talking about a temporary increase of half a percent and not a permanent one. In that case, the questions which Mr Van der Linde would like to see answered by me will not actually arise. I think it is a good thing that you are trying to enter into a debate with me on whether pension funds are rich or poor. Here's what I'm gonna do. We have an accounting rate of 1.5%, which does not exist worldwide, with returns, direct returns and total returns, including investment results and increases in capital. Then you should say that the funds are so badly in their pocket that we have ten million Dutch citizens and they are also sitting in the gallery leaving workers and pensioners in uncertainty for two years, namely that it may be that interest does not rise. That's the case if Draghi keeps buying up. So if that interest rate remains around 1.5%, then we know, if you are five years below 104.2%, that the difference with the current level of coverage of 102%, i.e. more than 2%, is finally reduced on pensions. This proposal seeks to prevent 10 million Dutch people from remaining in that uncertainty for two years and actually continuing to dangle. I find that socially irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u64	It is not the beginning of an answer to my question. We have a math foot. It's based on 97.5% security. You're gonna lift that math foot. That means that security's going down. I want to know how much down, because if you didn't figure that out, I'm really scared.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u65	The interest rate is a permanent as long as the rules exist. I'm not affecting the accounting rate in the ftk. I'm just saying, as long as Draghi artificially manipulates interest rates, I want to apply a small correction to that extra depressing effect of interest rates. Last year, the Dutch Bank calculated that the impact of Draghi's policy was between 0.8% and 1.5%. I'll come back to this later. I was pleased that this was calculated, because Minister Dijsselbloem never wanted to answer that. The CPB later also said: it is 1%. The effect of Draghi's policy on interest rates is therefore at least 0.8%. My proposal is not permanent, but only temporary and perhaps only for six months, because if Draghi stops the policy, my law will cease to work if it is passed. So I'm going to be way below Draghi's lowest correction. We have an interest rate in the ftk that went from 4% to 5% at the time and now goes to 1.5%, which has been a great shift from wealth from old to young; that was calculated last year. If I correct from that drop in interest rates from 5% to 1.5%, 0.5%, and that is only temporarily, in order to avoid discounts only in two years' time, I think that is absolutely safe and socially defendable. That's just what I'm doing. Isn't that something Mr. Van der Linde needs to understand? And that's all I'm saying. I am not talking about a correction of the calculation rate, but I am talking about a temporary correction on the impact of Draghi's policy, perhaps only for six months. If Draghi had not started to run the money supply, already for more than 2,000 billion, the calculation rate in the Netherlands would have been 0.8% to 1.5% higher. That interest rate is linked to the market. I'm only correcting a tiny bit of that. And that's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u66	And I'm trying to understand how much extra uncertainty that creates for these countless pensioners. And I'm afraid there's no calculation. So if Mr Van Rooijen is going to make a few notes, I would like to say to him: please let him pass through a model, possibly with the help of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u67	I'll be back at the Planning Office. I will explain this in detail in a moment. The Planning Bureau has already calculated that; I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u69	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I need to see where I left off. I would have stayed with those poor pension funds which, in fact, did not suffer much from the crisis because of their investment results. But I told you, they're being judged as if they were insolvent, or in other words, as if they were poor. This is supposed to have to do with the certainty that the system offers: Mr Van der Linde, here it comes. But oddly enough: nothing is certain anymore and the only thing that is certain is that the pension is uncertain. I would also like to make another point in this connection. I'm almost at the end of my opening block, Mr. Chairman. But I would also like to give colleagues another perspective. At some point there has been an argument in the discussion, albeit not explicitly. A pension fund should look beyond existing liabilities. The forced reserves of pension funds should also be used to meet non-existent obligations of non-existent employees. Look at the calculation of the Planning Bureau that suggests that a permanent increase in the calculation rate has a negative effect on the generations born after 2005. The care of our children and grandchildren is therefore also part of the domain of pension funds. Pensioners and the elderly must not affect that pot or eat it at the expense of our children and grandchildren. This reasoning ignores an important fact. Appointments are built up by paying pension contributions. Children and grandchildren for whom no premium has yet been paid have no claims; this is how the system works. The pot cannot be eaten at their expense by anyone else, because that pot is not yet for them either. Honesty requires us to say that the pension assets currently in existence are only intended to meet the claims of the participants and former participants, i.e. pensioners. No one else has a claim on that property. By the way, I would also like to say something about the so-called emptying of the pension fund, because it is partly because a generational conflict has been created in the pension debate for a few years, for which in my opinion there is no reason whatsoever and which nobody should really be pleased with. I would like us to leave that generation debate out of the pension debate now, without saying that we should not ensure that our children, the people who work now, also receive a good pension. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second block: the financial position of pension funds, especially those of large pension funds. I would like to limit this debate to our proposal, but I am encouraged by Mr Van Weyenberg to take some of his points of view. I am referring, for example, to the following view: as long as the money is in one pot and you promise a nominal security, you have to charge a risk-free interest rate for generation balance. This rule was devised by De Nederlandsche Bank, but the choice made at that time has not been tested in practice and in our opinion does not have sufficient theoretical justification. As long as the money is in one pot and you promise nominal security, not absolute, but for 97.5%, you have to be careful and when deciding on indexation discounts or premium fixing a balanced balance of interests. This can be done in a different way than by applying risk-free interest rates and now it is getting exciting! This was also advocated by many experts at home and abroad. Han de Jong, chief economist of ABN AMRO, speaks in this connection of an elephant in the room; not in this Chamber, but in the room. That statement will come back later, because I love it. Furthermore, Mr Grashoff asked questions to the Minister in response to that article by Han de Jong, which have also been answered. Han de Jong talks about an elephant in the room: that accounting rate. He quite rightly notes: "Market interest has no actual impact on the development of pension liabilities. Only if you want to fully cover all future cash flows would market interest rates be a reasonable discount rate." That means, in case you liquidate today. He also says: "But that actually means that you permanently value the pension funds on execution value," or that you suddenly value the benefit of everything in one day. On Mr Van Dijk's question whether we should also look at nominal security in the case of a bottom interest rate, I say: no, we should not. Firstly, because this initiative is temporary in nature, and secondly because it is not the intention of my proposal. In any case, we agree that, as he puts it, the level of the interest rate must be linked to the degree of hardness of the agreements. We have to ask ourselves whether pension participants prefer to receive high pension benefits with relatively little security, or a low benefit with relatively high security. Countless experts consider that the interest rate term structure should be adjusted and that it would be appropriate to take into account a certain risk premium or assume a macro-stable discount rate. The ESC also drew attention to this in an opinion in 2013: the discount rate could be more stable if it can take into account inflation expectations and the risk premium. In a low economy with low nominal interest rates, inflation drop-off could be low and the risk premium could be high, depending on how this exit and storage is determined. In a high economy, it is the other way around, according to the 2013 SER opinion, to which Mr Swank of De Nederlandsche Bank has also contributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u70	And that raises questions. I see that both Mr Van der Linde and Mr Van Dijk wish to intervene. Mr Van Rooijen was in the process of answering questions put by Mr Van Dijk. He also got up earlier, so I am now the first to give Mr Van Dijk the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you to Mr Van Rooijen for the answer. I think this is an important point in this debate. Mr Van Rooijen states that this is actually a temporary crisis measure, so to speak, from the other side. I would like to take a step further, also because we will have a broader debate on the different pension contracts we are going to get. Is Mr Van Rooijen therefore prepared to look at that measure of assurance? In the past, we have argued with each other from other positions, youth and elderly organisations, that we should actually look at the nature of the contract and that we should get rid of that nominal certainty. Is Mr Van Rooijen still prepared to look at this, apart from this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u72	I understand Mr Van Dijk's question, but we are talking here today about a temporary proposal to correct the Draghi effect a little bit. I have already noted with him that the level of interest must be linked to the degree of hardness of the agreements, but I do not want to discuss with him now whether and when we should do something about that certainty. That is not the case today. I have only recognized and also acknowledged, and said myself, that the level of an interest rate must be linked to the degree of hardness of the agreements. That's obvious, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yeah, that's obvious to me, but that's not about this bill. I did ask questions. Don't you have to look at the nature of the contract if you're gonna sit on that calculus rate? But can I say that for a possible future debate this is at the heart of the debate, so we really need to look at the degree of certainty when we look at other collective contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u74	Yes, additional to Mr Grashoff's proposal for the hearing, which will also include a broader evaluation of the FTC, I suspect: there will be many experts and I think with you that a number of experts will bring that opinion to light. I think we can take that hearing and that debate with us to the second term. But I keep saying that because I am only talking about a temporary, small increase in the calculation rate in the existing system, I now do not have to make a statement on what might happen if you looked at another calculation rate with another certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'm losing track now. I asked here five minutes ago what assurance you find acceptable, based on your calculation rate. Then you said, no, that doesn't matter, that's temporary. Now you say: the core of the debate is the claims and the certainty you offer. Then it makes sense for me to ask what uncertainty you would like to spread about pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u76	I have made this temporary and very small correction to this initiative proposal. Soon I will speak about the planning agency, but the impact of this proposal is very, very limited. I merely wanted to say in reply to Mr Van Dijk's question, you are actually also saying to him that there is a relationship in the current regulations with regard to security and accounting rates. I just said that this relationship is there and that with this proposal I am not changing anything about this relationship, that structural, permanent relationship in the regulation, at the moment. If Draghi stops buying up in six months, this bill is off the table again, if it were law. Then, again, the calculation rate for the existing security counts. It's gonna last. I am not tormented in the regulations by the accounting rate in the ftk or by the security laid down in the Pension Act. I'm only correcting for a very short time, as long as Draghi continues buying up. Mr Omtzigt has made this clear once again in this Chamber. The effect of that misguided policy, as we see it, Mr Knot has been saying this for quite some time; it must also stop immediately, and I would like to take it out. Then I come to the next block, the arguments against buffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u77	Before you do that, there is another question from Mr Omtzigt. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u78	However, I was confused in the last few comments. On the one hand, Mr Van Rooijen says: I am going to adjust the rate of calculation, because with a higher rate of calculation there is a lower measure of security. In plain Dutch, this means that if you count yourself a little higher future returns, you have to cut a little faster if things go wrong, otherwise you will quickly enter the danger zone. That was also the essence of the proposal that was on the table four years ago and was rejected by 50PLUS and the trade unions, among others. The essence of that proposal was a slightly higher rate of calculation, but also a faster cut if it goes wrong. Now Mr Van Rooijen says: I am going to take the high interest rate to avoid cutting. But then you're going into a spiral. You go into a spiral every time something gets in the way, for whatever reason. I totally agree that this policy of the ECB is not good, but it does lead to the fact that not the interest rate is so low, but the real interest rate. The real interest you get on Mr Koolmees's colleague's government bonds is low. Mr Hoekstra does not pay 2% on his government bonds; he pays 0.6%. That's the real problem: you only get 0.6%. Mr Van Rooijen now says: yes, but we're going to pretend it's 2% and every time it's disappointing, we're going to raise the expected return. Where does that end if you just throw up the expected return?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u79	I will come to the blocks by spokesperson later to discuss in detail with Mr Omtzigt the 0% or 0.5% on government bonds from the Minister of Finance. I have said that is also what Mr Van Dijk found out about the relationship between the degree of certainty and the rate of calculation that you could use, but that is not what this proposal is about. The hearing will lead to a further discussion on this, but I have just said that in my opinion interest rates as set out in the regulations and introduced by De Nederlandsche Bank are actually not supported by any economists. Nor has there ever been any scientific evidence that, with a security of 97.5%, there should be a risk-free interest rate for government bonds. That hasn't been proven anywhere. I have only said that if you also know that the expected returns and the realised returns are much higher than the calculation rate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That effect is not foreseen by anyone. When we made the calculation rate rule, no one anticipated that the European Central Bank would, for any reason, make the interest rate extra artificial... Mr Omtzigt made that clear once again in this Chamber. He was by far the most clear about it. He called it "extremely," and I repeated it, and I quoted him. If that is the result, then it is quite logical that you want to correct that artificial element in interest rates, market rates or whatever you call it, in the calculation rate? That's all I'm talking about, and I'm only doing it temporarily. In other words, I do not touch the building of the interest rate term structure, the interest rate and the ftk. I will be talking about the 0% on bonds later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr Omtzigt has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr Van Rooijen will be there, because if you adjust the interest rate upwards when it comes out, we will come into a circle in which a number of American pension funds have ended up. Over and over again, they have raised the arithmetic rate, where it is now around 6%, 7%. The accountants in America are yelling at those states: your pension funds are going bankrupt. That process took 15 years. So you can really hide it with this for ten years, I admit that. That's how much there really is in these pension funds. It's not like nothing's coming out of the greenhouses tomorrow. But there's a number of states on it because they don't meet their pension obligations...Sorry, do you say 7%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr Van Rooijen is speaking outside the microphone, but he can answer later. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u83	That's what they put up in steps. This is the first step towards releasing market interest rates. Market interest rates are artificially low, but they are the interest rates you get. I'd still like to give you one counterword. It is not the politics that has determined, among other things, the UFR and the arithmetic rate, but it has twice been a majority opinion of a group of economists. Mr Van Rooijen says that there is no economist. But it was just the Chamber. It was an amendment of my own which said that we should not leave the fixing of interest rates to politicians. We should not do that, not with the European Central Bank, but not with pension obligations. We put that in the law. An opinion has been issued twice and this opinion has been followed. Does Mr Van Rooijen recognise that and therefore recognize that an opinion has been issued twice by economists whom I have not appointed, but who have been appointed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs I did not even agree with those appointed to fix this interest rate in this way? Does he want to distance himself from his statement that all economists say it's not true? It is true that there is a discussion in economist country, but it is not true that there would be nothing on other sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u84	Firstly, I do not want to go into everything that has indeed happened in America in the wrong way. Fortunately, that is not at all the issue in the Netherlands. In the United States, interest rates are used that have never existed in the Netherlands and that will never happen in the Netherlands. Even in the fantastic times I have experienced as a working man, returns were made from well above 4%. Fortunately, however, the Pension and Savings Funds Act stated that there was a maximum of 4%. In other words, the generations of that time, including the pensioners of that time, accepted that 4% were counted, while super-efficiency was achieved. This also means that in those years, great buffers have been built up in our pension funds. Look at the assets of the ABP in the 1970s and 1980s: 100 billion to 150 billion. Because of this extra buffering due to the low calculation rate compared to the high returns, that pot has increased enormously at that time. That was America. Mr Omtzig also referred to my statement that there is actually no economist who supports this. I said that De Nederlandsche Bank, which has shaped the forward rate structure in this way, has never shown that the forward rate structure as we have, that is the risk-free rate based on government bonds, should not even be corporate bonds. This has not been scientifically substantiated either, either by De Nederlandsche Bank or by others. The Commission's Parameters, on which I come, have not done so either. That's all I said. If you're talking about the risk that we're gonna do some crazy shit here in the Chamber, I'm telling you, I'm not doing any crazy shit. I'm not doing anything about the permanent interest rate. We are faced with someone, the President of the European Central Bank, who has thought of launching a buy-back programme of 2,000 billion. That programme is still running, albeit to a lesser extent. That has an extra depressing effect, which I would like to take away. That's what I said. Mr Omtzigt spoke about these economists, about the Commission's Parameters. Fortunately, the Minister has written that very clearly in his evaluation report, which I do know by now. He said that the Commission had given Parameters an opinion on two things. Firstly, it has given its opinion on which parameters to use for the expected return. They were adjusted down a little bit. I do not rule out the possibility that they may rise slightly in the next opinion, but that is speculation and not expectation. The Commission's Parameters therefore deals with the efficiency parameters for the new expected return that may be used for the muffled premium and for the recovery plans. That is what the Minister says and what I point out here. The Paramaters Commission will do so next year. Secondly, it also issued an opinion on the Ultimate Forward Rate. However, the Parameters Committee has never expressed an opinion on the interest rate structure as such, as it has been maintained by De Nederlandsche Bank, both in the old and the new ftk. The Commission's Parameters, these five economists, did not come up until after the ftk, when the expected return could be used for the muffled premium in the recovery plans and for the premiums and nothing else. I would like to point out, in relation to the expected yield used for the muffled premium, which I have already said represents 10 billion too low premiums, that I will come back to that later that De Nederlandsche Bank mordicus opposed the use of expected return for the premium calculation, because De Nederlandsche Bank also saw that it would not be cost-effective. I would also like to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr Omtzigt wishes to put a follow-up question. Before I give him the floor, I would point out that we've been on the road for over an hour now. This is an important discussion and it is a beautiful initiative law, but of course we have seen the agenda in advance and we have thought together that we would make it within the schedule, around 2 p.m. This concerns both the reply in the first period and the second period. I'm looking at everyone now anyway. I think it is important that this is properly discussed, but let us also take a closer look at the time. This applies both to our members and to the initiator. Let us try to get Mr Koolmees to speak around 1 p.m. 'Cause I heard you say you're coming back on a lot of points, and you're in the second block now. I always get a little strict. I therefore ask you to pay attention to this with me and to help me do so. I am happy to give Mr Van Rooijen the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr President, I have given you the schedule so that you can follow it well, because that is your job. You have also concluded that I am only at the first part of my answer. I believe that this should also be done in response to the many questions raised in the first term. There has already been a very extensive written exchange, but this has led to many questions in the first period. I would also like to say to the public gallery why it is so comprehensive. We are talking about 10 million people: 7 million workers and 3 million pensioners. The regulation now says: if the calculation rate remains 1.5% and if the current coverage rate remains below 104.2% for three years, on 31 December 2018, 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2020, the difference between 104.2% and what it is will be reduced. This bill now wants to ask the Chamber: do you approve this proposal? Because then you will remove that uncertainty for 10 million people who absolutely do not deserve that uncertainty. There is absolutely no need for that uncertainty. I would also like to make a comment later on to make it clear that I am sure that after yesterday or this week I will know even more clearly that there will never be any discounts. It would be very bizarre and cynical if the House were to reject my proposal now, and in two years' time it would correct the recovery period in order, of course, to delete that reduction, because there would be elections for the House of Representatives. This was also the case in this Chamber in November 2016 in the AO Pensions, when it was asked from the Chamber whether the recovery period could not be extended by one or two years. This would lead to a generational effect of 0.5% or 1%. I'll come back to that later. It has been debated for a very long time; I read all of that last night. If this is not accepted, I predict that there will soon be a proposal from the Cabinet or the Chamber to extend the recovery period, to eliminate the five-year provision or to reduce it by 100%. There are all kinds of variants that I haven't put in for, but I'm sure that's going to happen. Please take this into account in your considerations. I apologise for this additional comment, which I had to make, also in connection with Mr Omtzigt's speech. I come to the arguments against buffering. The reason for the problems that will arise in the coming years if we do not intervene must be found in the rules on the financial review framework. Not only has pension funds been instructed by the required security to work with a risk-free interest rate, it is also demanded as a second lock on the door............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's not gonna be without consequences. So the demand is that you have 104.2%. If you're under there, it'll just be permanently cut. How is it possible that we have to talk about this at all for 10 million Dutch people? A pension fund that has a policy coverage rate that remains below the required minimum for the fifth consecutive time at the end of one year must immediately and irrevocably reduce if the current coverage rate is below the minimum of 104.2 The coverage level must therefore also be reduced if the coverage level is above 100%. Even if the coverage rate is above 100%, it should be reduced if it is below 104.2 at any time until 2000, the last measurement time. Even at an extremely low and manipulated discount rate, because make no mistake, those 104 and those 100 are the result of an absurdly low arithmetic rate that does not exist around the world. I can't hear anyone say anything about that. So I keep repeating it. Han de Jong has calculated it and displayed it in a state; you know it all. That's what I'm talking about today. Even then, it demands a definitive reduction, not only in the pensions of pensioners, but now the chairman of the Committee comes to all the claims of workers and young people. I run into people inside and outside the Chamber who keep saying, "You're doing something for the pensioners." I stand here as the father of three children and grandfather of seven grandchildren for the future of our children. That's what I'm here for. We also want the claims that the workers who are now working, from 20 to 25 years of age, not to be reduced. If we cut 1% or 4%, the claims of the people who are currently working and who pay a high premium will also go down permanently. If you're 50 or 55, there's no indexing and you keep having a risk of discount. I'll come back to the metal funds where a quarter of it is gone. That's dramatic and not necessary, because they get great returns. We believe that this perspective, that risk of shortening, for workers and pensioners, is unfair, exaggerated and incorrect. That is ten million Dutch people who are going to vote next week. Even in exceptional economic circumstances, the minimum buffer is given a higher priority than meeting the promises of a nominal pension benefit. Asking for a buffer is not illogical, but we find the combination of risk-free interest rates, manipulated to 1.5%, plus high buffers exaggerated. It is not only exaggerated from the point of view of buffering. The essence is that we do not want to question the system as such by means of this legislative proposal. We just want to repair an extremely undesirable consequence of the current system. A risk-free level of coverage of 100% or more ensures compliance with all nominal obligations. There are no discounts, certainly not those manipulated interest rates that are unnaturally low. If we are all looking at this, Mr President, there can simply be no problem. In general, pension funds have sufficient resources to meet their current obligations. Then lowering claims because the rules are not complied with is taking money from the present generation to save for future generations, just as the Economic Institute for Construction has recently shown in a report of 100 pages. Even if we maintain the current system and even if we assume that interest rates will never rise again, even then there will be more than enough money to guarantee a well-being pension for the younger generations who are still working and building up their pensions. Note: Prosperity-proof and non-value-proof. The current generation of pensioners has died before indexing and before catching up with those who are lagging behind in this area. That's what we're talking about. Buffering is an ex ante redistribution from old to young who goes so far that if the system of indexations were to come to benefits, the current generation of pensioners has already died. That is cynical, but a reality, a harsh reality. That's what I'm here for. This system places responsibility for a good pension for later entirely with the current generation of pensioners. This is a clear example of non-compliance with a legal obligation: balanced representation of interests. The bill does not want anything more or less than just................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. I cannot fail to respond specifically to a sentence by Mr Van Weyenberg. I quote: "But you also need to be more careful at the same time and build more buffers in good times." Here's the poodle core. I totally agree that you need to build buffers in good times, but these are not good times for pension funds at all. That's not because they would not make sufficient returns. I pointed out the doubling of the capital from 700 to 1,400 billion................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr Van Weyenberg cannot move away from the real return on all fronts and then claim that there are good times on the basis of actual returns. Only in the case of a policy coverage rate of 110% can partial indexation be started and full indexation is allowed only in the case of a policy coverage rate of 125%. In the case of an increasing discount rate, therefore, the priority is to build buffers. At the bottom of the interest rate, it is unreasonable to require buffers to be built up, especially if the coverage is above 100%. Buffers serve for setbacks, but we've already incorporated the setbacks into the discount foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u87	This is a good time for me to give Mr Van Weyenberg the floor. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u88	It is remarkable that I keep hearing Mr Van Rooijen on the subject, but never to tell him that by adjusting the financial rules two years ago we prevented any cuts. That should have happened differently, but the new rules did not, but quite aside. I have a question, because Mr Van Rooijen is always talking about low interest rates as a result of ECB policy. My group is also critical of this, as Mr Omtzigt has just mentioned. It's just, it's the actual interest rate now. Mr Van Rooijen then says: yes, but you should not look at it. But you have to look at both sides of the balance, that's how I'd like to tell him. If on the liabilities side you do not have to pay any attention to the current interest rate on the market, should you not also correct the asset side, the return side, for the fact that those returns were higher because of the low interest rate partly caused by ECB policy? Doesn't he agree? You cannot calculate differently on one side of the balance sheet and do not do so on the other side of the revenue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u89	I come back to this question by Mr Van Weyenberg, who was also raised earlier in the debate. So I shall come back to that in detail in a moment, but it is good that he repeats that question now. Mr. Chairman. Failures occur when interest rates are high and the coverage rates are correspondingly high. Then you need buffers. Well, there are. That's how the system works. But demanding buffers if you don't need them at all is ridiculous and not explainable to people. For the average participant or retired, everything we discuss here is complicated abracadabra. Trust in the system will not increase if we make our system fully compatible with the whims of the Italian President of the ECB, while our own Klaas Knot, like the President of the German Central Bank, is against that policy. But here we can decide to mitigate the negative effects of ECB policy. On this ECB policy, Mr Omtzigt said earlier in this Chamber that he thinks that this is wrong and that he thinks the consequences are extreme, in order not to use any other words. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the argument of the financial position of the large funds. A pension fund that has a policy coverage rate that remains below the required minimum for the fifth consecutive time at the end of one year should be irrevocably reduced if the current coverage rate is therefore below that minimum. For the metal pension funds, this means a second discount within 10 years. Think about it. This is a reduction from 5% to 6% in 2013 for both funds with millions of participants; this could be a further 3% or 4% by 2020, while the gap in indexing has now risen to more than 14%. So 6 % has already been cut. There may be another 4% reduction. That's 10. There's been an indexing delay of 14. That puts you at 24%, 25% behind schedule. In the case of large and small metals, participants and pensioners will lose a quarter of their supplementary pension if we do nothing. A quarter of the pension is gone, permanently gone. Six percent has already been cut. Another 4% can be cut. Then there is a final discount of 10%. In addition, there has been no indexing of 14% to date. As a result, there is a decline in purchasing power. In addition to the reduction in pension rates by 6 and perhaps by 4 there is a fall in purchasing power of a further 14%. These are astronomical, dramatic figures, a quarter of the supplementary pension. For the time being, we need to stop the bleeding before we have a definitive solution to the discount rate. We want to avoid unnecessary discounts, but in the case of funds that are very poor, which are below 100, discounts can still be dealt with on the basis of balance. Of course, if discounts were really necessary for pension funds to survive and to safeguard the benefits of members in the future, we would have little ground to submit this legislative initiative proposal. But that's exactly the crux. The four major sectoral pension funds involved are not bad at all. Let's take the ABP as an example again. That is the largest pension fund in the Netherlands, one of the largest in the world, for which we may have an extra responsibility, because it provides pensions for civil servants, soldiers, teachers and police. Despite the fact that the premium has not been cost-effective for years now and therefore needs to be contributed every year by pensioners and sleepers to maintain the workers' claims, the ABP has, I said, 80% of the financial resources available to meet all its nominal obligations. These obligations must be fulfilled over the next 70 years. As I said earlier, the ABP only needs to make a little more than a 1% return in order to meet all the nominal liabilities. I quote Han de Jong who held the Bismarck lecture on this subject on 28 November 2017: "A fund that currently has a nominal coverage rate of one hundred can meet all nominal liabilities if long-term investments achieve an average return on the interest at which the liabilities are made in cash." It's beautifully put. I agree with you 100%. He then says that the interest rate at which liabilities are made in cash is about 1.5% and that this does not seem to be an excessive challenge for ABP. We've just discussed it in detail, and now he's saying it. Then he says: "The ABP publishes on its own website a table of investment returns over the past 24 years. With a well-distributed portfolio, the fund has achieved an average annual return of 7.7%, 6.4% over the last ten years and 8.7% over the last five years." He concludes: "I know: results from the past..." Let's not think about doom. These are the facts of the past. No one can predict the future, but I do not want to have a discussion here and raise the idea that in the coming years the returns may be 0 or 0.5%. I have already indicated that, for example, the direct yields from dividend interest rates and the like in the case of ABP are well above 2%. Let us take another close look at the excellent words of Han de Jong, the chief economist of ABN-AMRO. Fortunately, he hasn't done his job for nothing, as it turns out today. At the current discount rate of 1.5% on average, ABP has a coverage rate of 104 %. I told you. The actual yields of ABP have been higher than 6% for 40 years. Of course, we cannot count on the same results in the future, but is there one sensible argument why we should count 1.5%? That is what this debate has been about for an hour. And Mr De Jong gives an answer to this. With a 6% return, he says there is an over-efficiency of 4.5%. That is enough to cover the risks of a further increase in life expectancy and, now, enough for the 1.5% indexation needed today to maintain purchasing power. Those are the facts. He's not the chief economist of a bank for nothing. That situation has existed since the APB existed. Where is all that money from participants who paid off their premiums, which has been made more and more profitable than the discount rate predicted? That's interesting. The discount rate predicts that it is 1.5 and in reality it is four times higher, but it seems that we should not talk about this here. He says it's about tens of billions. Where's the money? I can reassure you, he says, that money is still in the ABP's assets. It didn't disappear in obscure bags. At some point, 25 billion have been paid out with the permission of this Chamber, which many ABP participants are still very angry about. I'm still getting letters about it. Finally, he says that ABP has invested 409 billion by the end of 2017. Twenty years ago, 1997 was only 230 billion. So it's almost doubled in 20 years. I shall now turn to the balance sheet questions and the comments that have been made on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u90	Before you do that, the following. I see 12 points on the fine overview that I have received from you, for which I would like to thank you. You're at point two now and we're on the road for an hour and a half and you have about an hour or one. We would actually also be discussing the second term today, so we already have more room, which I am very pleased with, because it is an important issue, as you just clearly pointed out to me. I would now like to ask you to do your answer to point seven in about half an hour. I'm just trying to talk to you about some timelines. I am asking you this because you will then come back to a number of questions that have been asked by Members and there should still be enough room to deal with them. So I would ask you to speed up the points to seven, which are a little more general, before you specifically address Members' questions. And I mean that in a good way, Mr. Van Rooijen, because you appointed me today to guard order. You have also seen in advance how much time has been allocated to this debate. So I hope you'll help me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u91	I do, Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, realised that this is a comprehensive answer, but I would point out that we have been talking about this for the first time in this Chamber since it came into force. I myself experienced the debate in the Senate, in which Mr Hoekstra as CDA senator said in second term: Mrs Klijnsma, I am not going to ask you any more questions because you have not answered any questions from me in the first term. The CDA also voted against the ftk at that time. I'd like to make that clear. It was also close that it was accepted. The importance of this debate is that, for the first time since that moment, we have been discussing the interest rate in this Chamber. Actually, part of politics thinks you shouldn't talk about it, but I do. That's obvious today, too. Thus, in the balance sheet question, any choice for any interest rate in the case of pension funds is arbitrary. Then what's wise? I come back to the balance sheet which Mr Van der Linde and Mr Omtzigt have referred to. In the balance sheet of a pension fund, the debit side reflects the funds invested as a source to finance the credit side, liabilities and equity. Any choice of discount rate should be based on this principle. The debit side provides the flow of funds to finance the credit side. Then we are going to opt for an interbank swap rate in the existing interest rate term structure. Mr President, that makes no sense. The choice used to determine the premium is much more logical: the expected return on invested capital reduced by the cost of life expectancy increases and inflation. In today's practice, such conservative methods are taken as a starting point that we have no confidence in the future of our supplementary pension scheme based on capital cover. No reform of the system is going to change that. Capital cover schemes are particularly attractive because the premium is a relatively small part of the cost coverage. Between 20 and 25% of the capital formation in the capital cover comes from the premium and the rest comes from the return. If a discount rate of 1.5% were to correspond to the expected return, the ratio between premium and accumulated return would shift in such a way that the benefit of the capital cover system would disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u92	I don't know where to start. One: it is said that the CDA voted against the ftk. The CDA just voted for the ftk. Maybe you're confusing it with the White Cow Framework. We voted against that in the First and Second Chambers. That was the austerity of the maximum build-up. The FTK as such was dealt with here in the Chamber in 2006, in a consultation, of which I was the only applicant. It's been treated separately. Two: we would never have discussed the rate of calculation here in the Chamber. I'm sorry, but that's really beyond the truth. We have had several debates about it in its entirety, so the idea that we should not talk about it or that other parties would make that impossible is really quite absurd. Three: I'm waiting for the core answers, after an hour and a half. I'm waiting for the key answers to what you're doing with the argument. I was just asking, do we get that comparison with America? Then you said, "I gave it to you." But then you talked about the ABP. If you increase the calculation rate step by step, you end up in trouble. I hope that after an hour and a half we will get an answer to those questions. The second key question was: what are the coverage rates of large pension funds? The ABP currently stands at 106.7%; it doesn't do anything for that at all. The third key question was: when those five years are over, are we going to cut short in one go? Probably the answer to that is yes, but we've been waiting a few hours for that. If we're gonna pretend for five years that the arithmetic rate is higher and then it falls back to the old level, you're gonna move the problem to five years later. Then you will do exactly what other parties here are accused of, namely lifting it over an election. You don't lift it over one election, you lift it over two elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u93	I have the impression that Mr Omtzigt has not listened carefully to my speech so far. Maybe it'll help if he listens carefully to what I'm about to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u94	That is entrapment, so I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u95	I just want to know the facts. I want to know whether we've been talking about the calculus rate or not in recent years, otherwise someone will suffer from amnesia. My second point was who voted against the ftk and what debate Mr Van Rooijen was talking about. If he still wants to talk about politics... he's been talking about alleged takeout from the ABP. At that time there was only one politician active in this Chamber, and that is Mr Van Rooijen, because you are talking about the end of the seventies, the early eighties. Then I'd like to know exactly when something happened. Then I'd like the exact information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u96	Here a somewhat distorted picture of reality is given. First of all, I was not referring to the first ftk of 2006-2007, but to the last ftk. In the Senate, the CDA voted against it. Hoekstra was then spokesperson. It has also been discussed in the Lower House. The CDA voted against the new ftk in November 2014 in the First Chamber, with the annotation I just made that Hoekstra didn't even ask questions in the second term, because he didn't get an answer in the first term. So I am not talking about the ftk of 2005 or 2006, but I am talking about the new ftk, which Hoekstra spoke about in the Senate. That's what I wanted to say. I know what I'm talking about. Second. When I say that there has been no mention of the rate of calculation in this Chamber, I am referring to the period since the new system came into being. I followed that from the Senate. I have often had discussions about it with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. I've got it in this room now. The calculation rate as such has not been discussed. I shall come back to that in detail later. Then Mr Omtzigt says that I am not going into the situation in America, but I have just done so. He said, "Aren't we going to American shit?" These are phantom images. I am not talking about the American system, where the accounting rate is 7, as I have just said. We have never had that rate of calculation in the Netherlands and we will never have that rate. He was up to 4, so not even 4, but up to 4. If things had gone badly back then, he'd have gone downstairs. America is not on the agenda. I want to make that clear. Mr Omtzigt has given me an excellent argument for submitting this legislative initiative. Let him admit it! When I was in the First Chamber, he said quite clearly in this Chamber that this ECB policy should not have taken place, apart from the legal basis, that it had had dramatic consequences for pension funds and that, under these extreme circumstances, the interest rate had fallen sharply. The Dutch Bank said 0.8% to 1.5%. I am going to sit below that lowest estimate of the planning agency, and temporarily, and then you are going to blame me for me messing around with the arithmetic rate and that I may be gradually moving from 2% to 3% to 4% to 5%. Mr. Chairman. I will only take an advance on my argument after this: I am far from it. Firstly, this 0.5% is not a permanent one, which is not a step forward in order to increase the calculation rate further on a permanent basis. It's a temporary correction. And if Draghi stops pumping further money in September, it's now 30 billion dollars, then the operation of this bill, if it had been adopted in the Second and the First Chamber, would stop immediately. In other words, if I correct the artificial element, which Mr Omtzigt says is there and which the Dutch Bank says is at least 0.8%, until September, until Draghi stops, then you can't blame me for dealing with American situations and I might, if you follow this, go from 2% to what I know. I can't even do the latter, by the way. Then I have to come up with a new proposal. None of that is on the table. I shall come back to this in detail when replying to Mr Van Weyenberg's understandable question, whether we are going from 2% to 2.5% or 3%. Is he gonna do that or is he gonna start from the 5, 6 or 7. Those questions have all been asked. I'm not even ready for that. Those are intense questions that I'm being asked. I would also like to answer that very clearly. So the CDA voted against in the First Chamber. Secondly, I am talking about the new ftk of 2015. I said that after that there was no discussion of the interest-rate structure as such in the First and Second Chambers. Even worse, I have tried three times in the First Chamber to discuss the ultimate forward rate with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance. The cabinet and the then executive even refused to have an investigation conducted into why the UFR, the Ultimate Forward Rate, the long-term interest rate, became variable for the pension funds and is now almost half of that fixed Ultimate Forward Rate of the insurers. Mr President, those are the points. You're not gonna pin this on me for being a magician here. I shall now say that it is an AMvB which regulates that 2%. I would just like to say to Mr Van Weyenberg that, if the Chamber so wishes, I am prepared to consider putting that 2% in the law. By the way, if it stays in the AMvB, I can't do anything about it, because only with AMvB can it be anything other than 2%. An AMvB, I don't have to explain that here, goes first to the Cabinet and then to the Council of State. In addition, the Lower House and the Upper House have the last word if they wish. So there is only a half-percent temporary increase, perhaps until September, when Draghi turns off the crane. All the ghost stories and things that are brought in have nothing to do with it. But you don't want to talk to me about what I'm proposing alone. The consequence of Draghi's policy, which Mr Omtzigt has been saying for years, is that it is fundamentally wrong, that it has dramatic consequences, that it is extreme, that it leads to a reduction in the rate of calculation. He said that the coverage rate due to that artificially low interest rate was also said by the Dutch Bank, Duisenberg also said it was 5 to 10% lower. He then has the astronomical figures, yes, Mr President, I shall go on for a moment, I am called challenged, which has 70 to 140 billion effect. He said at the time: in this Chamber we talk about much less every day and every week and this is not discussed and I do want to talk about it. 70...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u97	This chairman would also like to give this Chamber an opportunity to do so, but I have to establish it, Mr Van Rooijen. We have also submitted the agenda to you in advance, for how much time you will need. Turns out it's a little bit more in practice now. So we struggle with time, how we do it in a good way. If you really need this time, I am not going to limit you, but that means that we will probably have to cut off the debate earlier without the first deadline being completed. I would be very sorry to hear that, because for the sake of consistency it is so nice if we can complete it all together around half past two. The Minister may also say a few things as an advisor. What I see to you, Mr Van Rooijen, with the in itself very important bill, is that you are so enthusiastic, I do recognize that, hear that you want to get rid of everything today. I understand that and at the same time I am going to call on you to really help me by being a little shorter in dust, a little more to the point, and to answer the questions directly from the different people who come to the interrupt microphone every time. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u98	I really do know Mr Van Rooijen as a fiery debater, and that is what he is doing here today. But I would indeed like to call on us all for the order of the debate, because we are now in a sort of evaluation between different parties of what has happened in the past. This is a subject we need to discuss today. We're talking about it, too. We must do all we can to do that. But if we're going to be so broad, I'd also like to talk about heavy-duty professions. It's going to be a very wide-ranging retirement debate. For me, we shouldn't do that today, but we should do justice to the bill. So I would also like to ask Mr Van Rooijen to stay away from all kinds of fitness from the past, perhaps rightly to do so. Mr Van Rooijen himself is talking about his words, but for the order of the debate and also for those who follow it with interest, I would really like to limit it to the legislative proposal an sich.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u100	That's where I close...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u101	This is an order proposal. As chairman, I now accept this for notification. Mr Omtzigt may also want to make an order proposal and perhaps Mr Van Kent will do the same. I'm going to see Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr. Chairman. I agree because a plenary debate was requested here by Mr Van Rooijen on 8 June 2017 on the calculation rate. There has been a report of mine on the ECB's interest rate. Empty sentences like "there's never been any mention of the calculus rate here" create confusion. Those kind of sentences were just pronounced here. Everyone was looked at with reproach, as if there was no willingness to talk about it. But there's extensive willingness. The CDA showed it to me. It voted for the Ftk. The ftk has indeed been changed several times. Once, the First Chamber voted against an amendment. If it works that way, I can think of 20 more. Can we please just stick to the facts, because that is not happening right now, and deal with this bill? It's important enough. That is why there are many spokesmen here, much more than with other proposals; let us also note that. It'd be worth a sweet thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u103	We have been listening to Mr Van Rooijen for 10.15 hours. At times it is very interesting, but it is also very extensive and very wide. So I agree with the call to deal with it a little more to the point. I would also like to make a comment to Mr Van Rooijen about his accusation that there would never have been any discussion in the Chamber. As you know, I have worked for Mr Ulenbelt for the last ten years. He was then on behalf of the SP spokesperson in the field of pensions. Mr. Van Rooijen, I can reassure you. Here in the Lower House, partly on the initiative of the SP, there has been a very regular discussion about this calculation rate. I would ask you to take back that accusation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u104	I'm not allowed to talk about the order, Mr. President. I won't. But with you, I notice that there have been a lot of interruptions. Without these interruptions, we would have gone a long way further. But that is the right of the Chamber. I'm certainly partly responsible for that. With regard to a debate on interest rates, I have referred to the following. I followed it in the First Chamber and in the Second Chamber. It is of course of a recent date; it is not something of a long time ago. It's also relevant. But on the interest-rate term structure as such, the main one never took place in the Chamber because the previous cabinet did not want to move into it. The Court has had discussions about this, but there have never been any discussions to remove the interest-rate term structure from the ftk. It has always been said that the ESC is working on it and that a new system needs to be put in place, which is more so. I didn't say it never came up. I have had those debates myself. The point is that the Court has not said: the interest rate term structure as such must now be evaluated. It wasn't included in the evaluation either. Let me rephrase. The evaluation of the FTC, which the Minister presented last week, deals with all kinds of issues. The ftk is evaluated, but it does not evaluate the forward rate structure and the muffled premium. Mr Grashoff has also pointed this out. The Ultimate Forward Rate is not evaluated either. That's what I meant. The ftk has been there for three years now. But the Minister is not even prepared to include these elements in the evaluation. It will of course be discussed in the hearing. But this is what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr Van Rooijen did not have those debates, because he was not a Member of Parliament at the time. Mr Ulenbelt did indeed have these debates here. On our initiative, it has also been discussed here many times; you know that. I would therefore ask you once again to take back that accusation. You know that we are in favour of your law, but this attitude does not help to gather support for your proposal in this Chamber. So I'd like you to take back that accusation. It is false, and I do not think it will help to obtain support for your proposal, which I would like to say again, is positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u106	This President is so keen to give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen, but I would also like to ask him to continue briefly and concisely with his important response to his fine initiative proposal. I now give him the floor. I would like to remind you once again that we will be giving the floor to the consultant at around one o'clock, because he must also have the opportunity to say a few things about your important legislative proposal so that we can finish sometime around 1.30 p.m., as we agreed with you in advance. Otherwise, the first-term and second-term replies of the Court would have taken place within that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u107	If it has come across to my fellow Members that they have not spoken about interest rates, I did not mean it at all. That seems very clear to me. The evaluation of the FTC shows that the cabinet has not done anything about the regulation in the last two years, even though it has been discussed in the Chamber. I'd come up with that, but I've said it now. The evaluation did not even take into account the interest rate term structure and the UFR and the expected return. That's what I meant. In other words, from the start of the new system, this policy is totally disregarded in the evaluation. This applies to the previous cabinet, but also to this cabinet, which is now in office for six months. It's up to the Chamber to talk about that. That's all I meant. But should I have given the impression that I would blame colleagues for not talking about interest and pensions in the Chamber, I did not mean that at all. I merely said that, in the end, politics in this Chamber did not want to change anything about it. This is very clear from the non-evaluation of interest rates and the other elements I mentioned. Then let me continue with the speech I was discussing about the balance sheet questions. I'll repeat a bit. Any choice of discount rate should be based on the starting point: the debit side provides the flow of funds to finance the credit side. We will then opt for an interbank swap rate in the existing interest rate term structure. That doesn't make any sense. The choice used to determine the premium is much more logical: the expected return on invested capital, reduced by costs, life expectancy growth and inflation. In today's practice, such conservative methods are taken as a starting point that we have no confidence in the future of our system, based on capital cover. No reform of the system is going to change that... Oh, I told you, I see now. That was so long ago in the text. Capital coverage schemes are... Anyway, I'm gonna repeat myself right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u108	I give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The attitude of Mr Van Rooijen in this regard is certainly troubling me. He was just talking about the politics that wouldn't do anything about it. It was well before 50PLUS existed that Agnes Kant made proposals in 2007 about the interest rate used by pension funds. I would ask Mr Van Rooijen not to pretend that he is the only one who wants to do something about that interest, or that today is the first time we have talked about it. This has a long history. I think Mr Van Rooijen should take back his remark, namely that the House of Representatives does not want to talk about it and that we should now listen to Mr Van Rooijen for hours because this is the first time we have talked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u110	Mr. Van Kent, I didn't say at all that there was never any mention of the arithmetic rate, even in Mrs. Kant's period. I have merely stated that, following the new ftk of 2015, there has been no fundamental discussion of the accounting rate. This is also apparent from the fact that the evaluation does not even cover a single word. It is being pushed away and it is being said that there will be a new system and so on. That's all I said. I have followed all these debates myself, and I would very much like to admit that I did not mean to say that. I understand your point very well. It has only hit the last two years, namely that since the new ftk it has been as it stands. That's all I meant to say. If I have given a different impression, I would like to make it quite clear that this was not the intention. In this respect, I believe that Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van der Linde have spoken too much about isolated aspects of the investment policy of pension funds. They do both policy and self-deficit by discussing this complex subject so compartmentalized. I have to say something about that now. Pension funds invest not only in the euro area, but worldwide. Moreover, pension funds invest not only in government bonds, but in all kinds of asset titles that we can name and a lot that we would forget. Government bonds from all euro area countries represent only a small proportion of total pension assets. The pension fund is spread across all conceivable fixed-income values and investment products in more than 150 countries. But Mr Omtzigt holds on to "one size fits all." Apparently, it doesn't matter to him that the one measure applied to all types of capital titles is heavily manipulated. No, Mr Omtzig would rather start with the balance sheet, where artificially higher arithmetic interest would result in an overvalue of assets. Then you see people at home thinking: oh, that sounds good, so he must be right. But it is an incorrect argument in this discussion. Because the long-term interest rate structure itself does not take into account the value of the composition of the funds invested. Mr Omtzigt also said: you pretend to get 2% interest, but you get 0% on short-term government loans and 0.5% on slightly longer-term government loans. Yes, that's right, but at the moment that only applies to state loans from the euro area and Japan, and nothing else. And the least profitable bonds are also the short-term bonds. They are also the first to roll out at rising interest rates. He also indicated that the yield on bonds in recent years was mainly based on price gains and that this price gain will disappear again as snow for the sun at rising interest rates. But if funds buy bonds on issue and hold them until the final repayment, then the exchange rate in the interim period is irrelevant. And is Mr Omtzig really quite sure that pension funds did not cash in at least some of the price gains? And does he know how pension funds respond to the next cycle? Or does he think they're gonna wait and see when big rotations between power categories come along? The clarification of one specific equity index, namely the Dutch AEX price index, as Mr Omtzigt did in his contribution, actually shows my whole point. The AEX is one of the last stock indices in the world where dividends are not redistributed. It is kept up to date: the AEX reinvestment index stands today at around 1,745 points. The AEX price index, including only the profit from the exchange rate, started in 1983 at 45 points and today stands at around 540 points. That's what counts for pension funds. Mr Omtzigt's comments were about someone who invested all his money in AEX shares at the height of the internet bubble overnight. For his sake, I hope he didn't talk about his own stock experience. Moreover, Mr Omtzigt admitted that even for this poor investor, including dividends, there is still a 2% return. I would like to say that the statistical loss situation of pension funds, which Mr Omtzig in particular tried to outline in the first period, is not correct. That is important because he gave the impression that there is actually a completely different reality. Again, the CDA spokesperson is failing both the policy and himself with that approach. I am with him, however, one that, in his words, politicians should not determine the supervisory rules of private pension funds on a daily basis. I've already responded to that. As I mentioned earlier, it is absurd to argue that risk-free interest rates are also the real interest rates that pension funds receive on their investments. Mr Van der Linde even went so far that he dared to say that savings rates are also very low and that pension funds suffer from this in the same way. Of course, that is good for the people at home, but it is, as I have just explained, a deliberate distortion of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u111	And there is an interruption by Mr Van der Linde of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u112	I want to make a personal statement, Mr. Chairman, because this is really getting a little too crazy. Mr Van Rooijen has just made an apology for the monkey sandwich he had sold on the interest debate. Would you like to take this comment back as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u113	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u114	I explained in my contribution what happens when interest rates are low. Private individuals then suffer from low interest rates on the bank and funds then suffer from their investments. That's a whole different thing. I would like Mr Van Rooijen to withdraw this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u115	I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u116	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm not taking that back. I quote literally what Mr Van der Linde said. He said that savings rates are also very low and that pension funds suffer from them in the same way. In doing so, he suggests that a savings rate of 0% or 0.5% would also be appropriate for pension funds. That is far from the reality, because pension funds do not save in the bank. There is no pension fund that does that. Pension funds invest risk-free and thus achieve returns of 6% or 7%. Then Mr van der Linde should not refer to a saving rate of 0% or 0.5% that citizens unfortunately get. That has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u117	I talked about monetary policy. We agree that this policy is artificial. We can find all kinds of things, but it is the interest rate in the market. It affects savers, it affects funds. That's independent of investing in shares. But you are now making a monkey sandwich out of a serious monetary policy issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u118	Pension funds are not affected by the ECB's interest rate policy, at least when it comes to returns, because they are still incredibly high. I've mentioned all those of the last 20 years, ten years, five years. We are only dealing with an interest rate for the cashing of nominal liabilities, which is extra low due to Mr Draghi's policy. The pension funds suffer from this, but not from the return side. That is my only argument: the returns are not affected by Draghi policy. The result is, cynically, even stronger: as far as you have bonds, they increase in value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u119	A few points. Point one. Thank you for pointing out that we have often discussed the rate of calculation here, but you said at first that we did not. Point two. Mr Van Rooijen just said: pension funds invest risk-free. I assume he meant that they were investing non-risk-free, because otherwise, his whole argument is wrong at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u120	Of course that's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u121	Okay. Point three. The fall in interest rates is precisely the reason why these pension funds have earned part of their profits on bonds. I did not hear Mr Van Rooijen say that. I have taken this 20-year state bond as an example, because 20 years is about the average term covered by swaps. If you have a 20-year bond with 4% interest and the market rate drops from 4% to 0%, the value of that bond increases from €100 to €180. That's an 80% increase in the value of that bond portfolio. That was the average because of the fall in interest rates. I understand, moreover, that Mr Van Rooijen wants to do it separately between bonds and shares, and I shall come back to that later. Does Mr Van Rooijen recognise that much of the increase in the value of the bond portfolio is due precisely to the fall in interest rates and that this is also the reason why we value market-to-market? When we had that 4% rating, bonds were still in the books at historical cost. So if you're saying you want to go back to the historical cost, fine. But then you also have to value the bonds at purchase value and not at market value, and Mr Van Rooijen does not. So Mr Van Rooijen acknowledges that the increase in the bond portfolio has to a large extent been due to the fall in interest rates and, worse still, that if interest rates would rise, the portion of the bond portfolio would unfortunately fall in value because of that market valuation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u122	That's right: as far as you invest in bonds, that effect occurs. But I would like to draw Mr Omtzig's attention to the following points concerning pension funds. I'll take another look at the ABP. I checked this out, too. The ABP invests very little in bonds. The ABP invests 8% in government bonds. If you add other related bonds, you may be at 20% or 30% or 40%, but the ABP invests only 8% in government bonds. My point is only that if you use a risk-free interest rate on the credit side, that of government bonds, then the reasoning is apparently that on the debit side of the balance sheet is only invested in risk-free government bonds, but that is not the case at all. Pension funds would be very stupid to invest a lot in bonds. By the way, that De Nederlandsche Bank wants to do that for some older funds, is a story apart. My point is that on the credit side it is said that you have to take the risk-free interest rate and that the reasoning is apparently that this is what I have already talked about, because on the other hand there are risk-free titles. That's not true at all. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that these returns can only be achieved by non-risk-free investment. I have just indicated that the ABP invests little in government bonds, also worldwide, because most of it is invested in risky titles. That was my point. So I agree with him that, as far as you invest in a bond, that effect occurs back and forth, as interest rates fall and rise. But the share in the investment portfolio of pension funds in bonds is very small. I have another comment to make. The interest sensitivity of the system also means that pension funds want to cover the risk. The pension fund for construction has done so to a large extent, which gives them a good level of coverage. However, I would like to tell you that people in London are laughing at the fact that we have a hyper-interest-sensitive system, which makes those trading in derivatives and pension funds very wealthy to cover the falling interest-rate risks. I want to have said that here in this Chamber once. If you were to reduce the interest rate sensitivity of the system with a fixed interest rate, whatever, for example a fixed permanent interest rate of 2%, you would be rid of the whole circus, which is also very expensive. Mr. Chairman. That 2% is prudent. If we constantly increase the rate of calculation to 2% and nevertheless the present 1.5% would be the return on pension funds over the next few decades, then, and only then, young people will be somewhat affected by this proposal, permanently. However, this phenomenon only arises if both assumptions are met: and a permanent 2% interest rate, I am in favour of a temporary, short-term and a truly long-term return of 1.5% or less. No permanent 2% interest rate is proposed. I do not want to say here that 1.5% can never occur over a longer period of time. It is highly unlikely, no dataset confirms that risk, but it is not completely impossible. But if that really becomes the situation, we have a different and much bigger problem. In that case, we have to note that the funded system is bankrupt. Mr. Chairman. I do not really understand how the thinking world of Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van der Linde works. On the one hand, they want to calculate so strict that, on balance, we have set up a funded system for nothing, on the other hand, they treat pension funds as a sovereign wealth fund, whose assets and dividends have to continue to rise infinitely every year. I'd be happy to help you out of your dream. This is a pension system in which savings are the goal of achieving higher goals: payout. What Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van der Linde have in common is that they want to take into account a decline in a future long-term average return on capital to a level that has not occurred before in measurable history.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u123	I'm just going to read Mr Van Rooijen a bit from the CPB report. "The introduction of a soil in the calculation rate is beneficial for older participants and unfavourable for young and/or future participants." That's one. Further on: "In the case of a temporary soil, a temporary soil of 2% is the maximum generation effect +1% and -1%." So we are just getting better with the elderly and we are getting worse with young people. How does Mr Van Rooijen know that this effect would not be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u124	I'll get to that. Of course, I have it in front of me. I read the summary on page 1: "Entrying a soil of 2% over five years has limited generation effects." On page 7 they are referred to as up to +1% or -1%. I will come back to that later, but I would like to state what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u125	Yes, but you deny that that effect is there and now you confirm it. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u126	I was talking about a permanent increase to 2%. That's what I was talking about, and that's what the planning agency is clear about. I am only talking about a temporary proposal. Indeed, the planning agency said in the summary that its impact is limited. On page 7, it says that this is maximum -1%, +1%. We're talking about the big game on the wagon here. I did last year...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u127	Before you go any further, there is another interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg. Oh, no, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u128	It is true that this effect occurs. At my request, Mercer calculated the following to the introduction of the January planning agency report. I have to pack my reading glasses, because I happened to type it in small with me, but I can also say it out of my head. Due to the decrease in the calculation rate from 4.3% to 1.4% between December 2006 and 2016........................................................................................................................................................................................... In other words, in the collective pot, 7% went from old to young because of the 3% fall in interest rates. This is 7% in the case of an interest rate reduction of 3%. That's permanent for now. What I am doing now is temporarily correcting a 0.5% reduction of 3%. Of course, that has a small effect. This leads to the 39% going to 32% going to 33%, but the difference remains very large. If there is a fall in interest rates of even 3% gradually, it has even gone from 5.2%, so it is much more; it is actually 4% from 2005 onwards, then one finds that in this Chamber a natural phenomenon. That's fine. If the share of the elderly in the collective pot goes down by 7% or 10%, you will not hear anyone in the Chamber about it. With the exception of some parties, I would like to make it quite clear. The majority say: well, that is a natural phenomenon; the interest rate goes from 5.2% to 1.4%. That leads to a great shift from old to young. But if I say here as a Member of Parliament 'I want to apply a minimum, small correction, a 0.5% correction in view of the Draghi effect, in the event of a 4% or 3% reduction in interest rates', I am accused of having an effect of up to +1% or -1%. Mercer has calculated that the effects of this decline are enormous, but with a slight correction it is said to me: you are moving towards the elderly. I find that really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u129	My point is this. I think it is perfectly legitimate for someone who is here in front of the party 50PLUS to argue for higher pensions, or better pensions, or I know much more security for 50+. That's legitimate. What I do not think is legitimate is that you then play hide-and-seek when it comes to all the associated risks. You don't want to make that clear. Nor do I think it is legitimate that you then play hide-and-seek when it comes to what this means for the younger generations. That needs to be considered in conjunction. You walk away from that all the time. That's my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u130	I have a big problem with the way you're bringing this up. I have indicated and Mercer has shown that the planning agency has not done so and no one has asked for it to happen because of the fall in interest rates from 4.3% to 1.4%, a 7% shift is taking place in the collective pot, undivided. It's even more. It's even 5%.I didn't say here: Mr. Van der Linde,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u131	Mr. Van Rooijen, I need to suspend the meeting. Of course, this kind of debate intervenes so deeply in human lives that it can always evoke emotions, which we understand here in the House of Representatives. And yet every spokesperson here must be free to say anything. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot allow signs of withdrawal or approval to be communicated to the people who are holding the debate here. So I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u132	We can resume the meeting. I give Mr Van Rooijen the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u133	Thank you, Mr President. I think that Mr Van der Linde should take back his words that I am standing here for a party that thinks that pensions should be increased and so on. I didn't say that at all. The point is that I am asking 10 million Dutch Members of Parliament to decide on a proposal to have a temporary law, perhaps even for the duration of a six-month period, which will eliminate the Draghi effect, in order to prevent 10 million Dutch pensions being cut by 2020. That's what I'm standing here for. If I am told here that my proposal also has a generational effect, on which I will come shortly, I agree with you. The Planning Bureau says on page 1 that it is a limited effect, a much more limited effect than when you talk about a permanent calculation rate of 2%, 3% or 4%. The Planning Bureau says that's a maximum of plus or minus 1%. I put that in the perspective of the fall in the interest rate of calculation. That's what I'm saying. If there is a large fall from 3% to 4% in the interest rate calculation for pensions, is it unfair to make a small correction if there is an external extreme circumstance that no one has foreseen? You say that it is not allowed because it would have a generation effect, a small effect. You do not want to do that, but will you allow the proportion of the elderly by 3%, 4%, to fall quietly from 7% to 10%? You will then tell me that I cannot correct anything about this in order to correct the decline somewhat in order to prevent any reduction in the amount of aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u134	We stand as a VVD for an honest story. It's not a fair story to say there's only pluses to a story and no risks. I would like to remind the elderly in the Netherlands that there is no risk of this happening. You have not been prepared to explain how much extra risk we are at, but you do say: let's throw that arithmetic rate up nicely. That should be discussed in conjunction. If you have that, we have a decent debate. I'm standing here now, I'm looking at the clock for more than two hours, but we didn't get an answer to this kind of basic thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u135	I'll get back to the Plan Bureau's report. I've said that a few times. But when you brought it up, we shared it. I agree with you. I've got the report from the Central Planning Bureau in my story. I acknowledge that it is limited on the one hand and that it is plus or minus 1% on the other. I'm just saying that this is against the background... let me rephrase. Very simple, even for the viewers. If we had asked the Planning Bureau a year ago whether it wanted to calculate for us what is the result of the market interest rate drop from 4.3% to 1.4%, then the Planning Bureau would not have done so, because that question was not asked, not even by the Chamber; I put it to Mercer............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the reality. In the light of that report from the Planning Bureau, which is the mirror image of the present report, I would have said: if there is a special, extreme cause from outside, we must correct it, and also temporarily. That is all I would like to say. I said we should go back to the 14th century to make such negative assumptions a little plausible. I cannot forbid a post-apocalyptic landscape to be sketched, but that is, of course, far beyond reality. Risk-free does not exist in the pension world; we have been talking about this. Participants also want risks to be taken. The reward for this is an expected higher return. The history of Dutch pension funds also proves that this is possible. Well, there's a risk to that. These risks were previously covered by the sponsor, the employer, with an obligation to discharge, but in virtually all pension schemes that obligation has expired. A bounty is being paid. In the event of shortages, members and beneficiaries are called upon. There is therefore no risk free. I agree with colleagues from VVD, CDA and D66 that the amount of pension reserves in euros in the Netherlands is 1,350 billion, but that this is not yet an answer to the question whether this is much or little or whether it is sufficient or insufficient. An amount, no matter how high, doesn't say anything in itself. To determine that, you need to make clear agreements with each other about how you value the amount of the invested funds in relation to the obligations. This has proved to be an impossible task for many years. Mr Grashoff put it strikingly: it is remarkable that we do not seem to be able to be somewhat objective and with any support at all to see what exactly is or is not too little or too much in the pension jars. That's what it's about. I will quote Mr Grashoff on this later. As politicians, we must try to capture the long-term valuation of pension assets in formulas. It is about a lot of people and about the largest money mountain in the Netherlands. It is therefore logical that we disagree on this. That's what it turns out today, and thank goodness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u136	I am using this as the time to give Mr Van Dijk the opportunity to post his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u137	We are actually trying today to picture all the elements, the consequences of that low interest rate for all participants. That is what we are trying to do in this debate. It is true what Mr Van Rooijen says: because of this low interest rate there is a shift in the current system from old to young, but there is also an effect on the workers. I would like to ask Mr Van Rooijen whether he sees that as well. In the case of many pension funds and at collective bargaining tables, a very low level of building-up is currently agreed because of this low interest rate. This also means that workers currently pay a relatively high contribution for a relatively low level of construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u138	Yeah, that's right. It is also, if I may say so, a cynical aspect of the entire political debate that the previous cabinet, also because it needed money, has reduced the rate of building up, because less premium is passed on. This is beneficial for the State, because then there is less deductible premium. I believe that this is a cynicism of which the workers and our children are deeply affected. This also means that the average wage scheme, which has been in place since the final wage was no longer in existence, would go further and further towards a sort of minimum. I've already talked about the metal funds. I totally agree with you on this. That has been a cynical correction to something that has existed for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u139	This is important, because at the moment this low interest rate has a real impact on pensioners because of the lack of indexation and possible reductions, but it also has a major impact on workers, who do not even achieve the maximum legal build-up rate in many funds. This is because many sectors are below the 1.65% that you are allowed to save tax. So that is separate from the cuts of the previous cabinet. It's still way under there. So I think it is right to point out that there are major consequences for current workers of this low interest rate and also for the current elderly who are retired, and that this is all the more in favour of a different system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u140	I actually want to skip a little bit and go to the objective and proportionality. I would like to explain once again what the proposal means. I do so because the contributions made by Mr Van der Linde Van Weyenberg show that I do not think they have understood or misinterpreted our proposal. Our proposal does not affect the long-term interest rate structure. Pension funds with a coverage of less than 100% remain in difficulty as far as we are concerned. We are talking about funds which, at the moment, with the low interest rates, which Draghi manipulated, have sufficient resources to meet all the obligations. By the end of 2017, the Health and Welfare Pension Fund had a policy coverage rate of 90.6%, making it the only large fund with a policy coverage rate below 100%, but with the current coverage rate it is already above 100%. However, four out of five large funds do not meet the minimum buffer requirement of 104%. We want to ensure that they do not have to cut pensions and claims according to the rules of the 31 December 2018, 2019 or 2020. Finally, after five years, it will be decisive whether the coverage rate is below 104% at 31 December 2020. The proposal itself will not lead to indexation; I have made that clear. Indexation remains bound by the current rules. However, I cannot deny - and I say this quite frankly - that some funds with a coverage rate of more than 104 at the moment, as a result of this bill, could be a little bit in the indexing zone. As has already been said, we want to avoid these reductions because we believe that reductions at 100% coverage, which is achieved at artificially low interest rates, are unfair. So we are not just looking at one side of the balance sheet, as Mr Van Weyenberg suggests. We keep the balance as it is. He also knows that the balance is in balance when debit is equal to credit. That's the peculiar thing. At Zorg en Welzijn, PME, PMT and ABP the balance is in balance; they are above 100. The assets in the form of the invested funds are equal to the liabilities in the form of cash claims made, made in cash with the interest also cursed by Mr Van Weyenberg by Mario Draghi. If that is the case, we say that we should not demand that pension funds be cut short. That is all we want and I cannot see that Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van der Linden are so harnessed in this system that they are not going along with it. Young and old people who are in retirement or in retirement are thus unnecessarily affected by the rules, and by the fact that we have lost our sovereignty in interest rates and that an Italian President of the ECB seems to have his national interests over those of the northern euro countries. As you know, after last week's elections, Italy remains in severe weather. Watch this. Once again, the proposal does not seek to index. We just want to avoid unnecessary discounts. The ESC may come forward with a proposal for a new system, but if it does not succeed, the Minister will want to take the initiative. Then there will be participation rounds and discussions with those involved, and before you know it, we will be three years further. Members of parliament who give the absurd rules of the ftk a higher status than reasonableness and fairness will have to answer to disappointed pension-builders and pensioners. My group considers further reductions for pension funds with a coverage rate of around 100% irresponsible as long as the ECB continues its policy of quantitative expansion. For the sake of clarity, we believe that discounts should be out of the question for 100% coverage. Let the opponents explain why that would be an untenable position. Yes, I also find it extremely annoying that we have to discuss an emergency measure on the left or right, which is, of course, this temporary increase in the interest rate. However, for a structural increase in the rate of calculation, there is no majority in this Chamber and for any revision of the system, regardless of what it looks like, the reductions will be far too rapid in any case, by 2020 at the latest. Then you can close your eyes, but we don't. To the explicit question put by several colleagues, including at least Mr Van Dijk and Mr Grashoff, whether I can specify and consider briefly all aspects of ECB policy, the answer is no. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm skipping something because of time. I would like to point out that the correction of 0.5%, the chosen measure in this initiative, amounts to about 7% of coverage, enough to avoid discounts in the case of modest cover, but also too little to index. In other words, this 2% has not been randomly chosen, because both a political and a very prudent financial logic is lacking. DNB estimated it to be at least 0,8 and we remain with a correction of 0,5 so even below the lowest estimate of De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u141	I call Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen's long speech so far reveals all aspects of the interest rate. He criticizes many different elements of this. Some I can share, some are a little more difficult. Does Mr Van Rooijen agree with me that the problem of calculating interest, which he himself defines, is not, in fact, resolved by setting such a temporary lower limit, and certainly not now that this temporaryity is built in? In a few years' time we may be facing each other again, but then Mr Van Rooijen's law will be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u143	Yes, it is true that this proposal is very modest and prudent, but I have noted that far-reaching proposals may be discussed during the hearing and, if I have listened carefully to Mr Grashoff, probably also in the debate on the evaluation of the FTC. I have only tried to make a minimal and temporary proposal because the ftk that has arranged; it is a kind of autopilot. It says five years. That's random; I don't know where those five years come from either, but it's there. If it stays under 104 for five years, then there is an autopilot who will make sure that 10 million Dutch people are finally cut short. We've known that for two years now. We consider that unnecessary and unjust. However, I would be happy to discuss other measures with Mr Grashoff at the hearing, during the debate on the evaluation of the FTC, and afterwards with Mr Grashoff at the hearing. With this proposal, I would just like to ensure that there is no reduction in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u144	That's a good clarification. That leads me to the question whether Mr Van Rooijen might agree with me on the following. If that is what you want to achieve is so limited, wouldn't it be a more convenient and direct route to stretch the recovery time by a little bit? We know that quantitative expansion is a temporary matter, we know that it is a bit tricky and then we take a little more time for the recovery period. Wouldn't that be a more practical solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u145	I think that's a good question. He was also set here and there in the first term of the Chamber, including by you. I have, of course, also weighed up all kinds of other alternatives, partly because there was a whole debate on this recovery period in November 2016. Because before Trump was elected, De Nederlandsche Bank indicated that 10 million Dutch people would have to be cut in 2020. The Dutch Bank said that then. That made the Chamber restless; that is understandable. Mr Krol requested and received a debate on this in September. Before Trump was elected, the discount threatened. At that time, the Chamber itself asked: can we not extend this recovery period by one or two years? Because of the expected return that you are allowed to use in those recovery periods, that led to the following. If you are given longer time to calculate with a higher efficiency, please note that there is no reduction. You can also extend that five-year period to seven or ten years; there are also colleagues who have spoken about this. That's what I've been considering, but I didn't think that was feasible. The funny thing is that I have chosen to take over a small correction on the notorious external element of an artificial additional reduction in interest rates.The Nederlandsche Bank says that at least 0,... is taken over because I think that is an artificial element. I felt that, if I started with the recovery periods or the five-year period, the Chamber could blame me much more for turning buttons because it would change the rules. Among other things, Mr Van Weyenberg had fierce resistance against this. I will not repeat what he said about this in the November debate. I weighed all that, but I decided not to because I didn't want to turn those buttons. That was easy. I could have said that if you're above 100% you should never be cut short. But then I'm going to take a much more fundamental approach to the current ftk. I did not think that this should be done with an initiative proposal, because I only intended to prevent discounts. Now it is very bizarre that this Chamber in November 2016 was in effect especially for the coalition parties in the previous composition of the Chamber; D66 was not one of them actually wanted the Cabinet, if necessary, to come forward with an emergency law in January to extend the recovery period. I'm not going that far. And then some accuse me of doing something to prevent those discounts. At that time, the Chamber never came to a vote because the proposal was not put to the vote. I didn't dare, because that would go too far right now. But I cannot be blamed for coming up with a much more limited and temporary proposal to at least avoid these reductions by another route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u146	Just one final remark: at least I am not the one who is blaming Mr Van Rooijen on this. I'd like to keep my distance from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mr Van Rooijen continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u148	That reminds me of Jan the King, former Minister of Social Affairs. He once said, "If it can't be done the way it has to be done, it has to be done the way it can." That's what we're talking about here. I'm gonna skip the reaction to the CPB conclusion. I've actually said a few things about that. I am also skipping the whole issue of pension funds/insurers. Those are points 4, 5 and 6, Mr President. You see, I'd like to be helpful. We're getting along a lot. On the issue of pension funds/insurers, I would just like to make the following point. I've said it before. I'm gonna tell you anyway, although not everyone likes this. This is, of course, very bizarre. We had a regular Ultimate Forward Rate for the insurers. That is the long-term interest rate for insurers, after 20 to 60 years, with a hard commitment of 4.2% fixed. It was finally decided, also in the Netherlands, to set up a fixed Ultimate Forward Rate of 4.2% for pension funds. What happened? I've been up close. There were parliamentary groups that said that if you do that, the level of coverage will go up, and that is bad for the young people. What happened? The House of Representatives wanted a committee to see if this UFR, which is Ultimate Forward Rate, should be equal for pension funds to that of insurers. I have had a lot of discussions about this with Mr Ulenbelt behind the scenes. In the First Chamber, I had three debates with the rulers. Mr. Chairman. No one can tell me that the interest rate for insurers between 20 and 60 years is fixed 4.2, but that it is not fixed 4.2 for pension funds. No one can explain that to me. No one's ever explained that either. The Parameters Committee started work at the request of the Chamber. It concluded that the Ultimate Forward Rate for pension funds should become variable. Variable, so no longer fixed 4.2. Variable means it can go up, but from that moment on it has meant that the Ultimate Forward Rate is down from 4.2 to 2.6 again. If the interest rate remains 1.5, the Ultimate Forward Rate for the pension funds will go to 1.5%. The impact on coverage has been 7% so far. The Netherlands Bank has also said this. In other words, we already have a 7% lower level of coverage in the muffled premium. In the case of the wrong UFR for pension funds, we also have a 7% lower level of coverage. That's 14%. The effect of Draghi is at least 0.5 to 1%. That is what De Nederlandsche Bank and Minister Dijsselbloem said. That's a coverage rate, he says, between 5% and 10%. Let us also take the number 7. Then we have three artificial reductions in coverage by 7%. That's 21%. This 21% reduction in coverage is due to three measures: the accounting rate, the UFR and the reduced premium. That's what's going on here. That has a big effect. Jean Frijns, who is absolutely authoritative on this dossier, wrote in a recent contribution with the beautiful title "Collective pension system deserves a better supervisory framework" the best summary I could find. For the purpose of determining the premium, the calculation rate may be related to an expected return. Many pension funds use it. However, compared with the current discount rate of the liabilities, a deficit, the so-called premium coverage deficit, arises which, by cumulation over the years, puts pressure on the coverage rate of the pension funds applying these schemes. This leads to a redistribution of the assets at the expense of the older participants, which can only be avoided by equalising the calculation rate for the premium provision and the technical provisions. Mr. Chairman. I explained the UFR. Finally, I would like to point out that EIOPA, the accountants in Frankfurt, did not want to take over the Dutch pension UFR because it did not meet the underlying long-term balance values of the UFR. Those Frankfurt calculators prefer the calculation method based on historical data rather than current market information. Of all the existing alternatives that go through the review, the Dutch accounting rate is, according to EIOPA, the lowest. And they're against the Dutch way of calculating interest. Someone recently called that the Ultimate Backward Rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u149	There is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u150	I would like to know where that last quote came from, so where EIOPA said they were against the Dutch accounting rate, so against the UFR. I hope to find out later where that was said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u151	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr Van Rooijen has skipped a number of blocks, which I understand, but there were some rather difficult factual questions. I will repeat one of the questions we have asked here. If a pension fund is to have a temporary high interest rate and then have to re-insure itself because the pension fund is being closed down, for example because the employer is going to be wound up, then at that point, at a minute, it must be changed to the framework of insurers. I think that at that point you will get a write-down of the pension payment of between 5% and 10%, that is, everything that comes with it; it depends a little on the fund whether it is 5% or 10%, but it has to be downgraded. That was one of the factual questions I was waiting for the answer to. Now that those answers are not coming, I would like to receive them for the second term. In fact, we only had a general introduction in which Mr Draghi was quite right to be critical, but those factual questions were at the heart of the input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u153	I admit that this answer will be given. It is further in my term, but I will answer it very specifically. I will therefore forward to the Chamber the text of EIOPA in which they criticize the Dutch UFR method. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna skip a lot now. Before it is too late, I would like to present a book in which all the experts agree with the draft initiative law, at least the criticism of the rate of calculation. I'd be happy to give that to you for a lecture. I have some copies available for the spokesperson. It is clear that the last few months and weeks have seen more and more publications showing that the picture around the arithmetic rate is delirious. Some quotes I'd like to use, I'll skip because of time. Maybe there's another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u154	Your beautiful book is of course distributed to the members, including those who happen to be unable to be here today, so that they can take note of it. Can you indicate about how much time you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u155	When I look at the text, quite a lot of time, because I now come to the answers to the specific questions put by colleagues in the Chamber. I think this is gonna be a tough one because of time. I would be failing Members if I didn't give those answers. I wonder whether it might be possible to send what I may not be able to bring forward now because of the time, through you, as answers to the Chamber, but I do not know whether the Chamber thinks that is a good route. I do believe that Members of Parliament are entitled to answer all the questions. Mr Omtzigt has just mentioned one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you. I shall go straight to Mr Omtzigt and ask him whether he thinks that is a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u157	We have prepared this bill extensively and we have also had a comprehensive written response and the oral deadline is ideally suited to exchange views. So it would not be very nice to get the written reply after the debate. I'd really like to turn it around, because I just see that we're not gonna make it by a long shot. The Minister should start in three minutes, but in view of the number of actual questions we are not getting. In fact, I would much rather ask the petitioner and the minister if they would reply in writing as much as possible, after which the matter can be discussed at a time to be determined on the points which the MPs and perhaps also the petitioner consider important. Because that's the only way we're gonna do a little justice to the bill that's here. If we don't, we're gonna get in trouble. I would also like to say to the people in the gallery that we have a general discussion with the minister sitting here at 2 p.m. on a number of not insignificant and urgent pension issues. It seems to me that it would be difficult to get rid of this, so perhaps the further examination of this bill could be scheduled in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u158	That's an order proposal. Let me take a look at Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u159	I also think that things are a little difficult now. I would also like to have a debate with the Minister. I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion, assessment and comments. Now it seems like we're gonna rattle that off, and I wouldn't think that's a very good thing. I doubt for a moment, but I would imagine that Mr Van Rooijen would answer a large number of factual questions in writing and that we might now take the time to discuss with the Minister, or that we should suspend now and do so at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u160	Let me take a look at Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u161	To do justice to both speakers, I would say that we should suspend now. Then we will finish the reply of Mr van Rooijen and then we will be able to hear the Minister as an advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u162	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u163	I agree with that, too. I think the author should first answer the questions. Then we can have a debate with the consultant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u164	I heard you all right. It calls for a suspension and a written reply to as many factual questions as possible by the applicant, so that at a later date all points that are still open and that exchange can take place are taken into account. I'll take a look at Mr Omtzigt, because he's still coming to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr President, there was now six weeks between the first term of the Chamber and the first time. I would ask the Bureau to really try to plan the debate in a week or a week and a half. It doesn't have to slow down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u166	That seems to me to be a very good thing. That request has now been made clear here and we will pass it on. Of course, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u167	It's a shame it's not all working out today, but I think a suspension is justified. I was hoping to ask the Minister some questions. I would therefore like to ask whether it is possible to send some written questions to the Minister so that we can meet more efficiently later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u168	It may be a little unusual, but I will give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mr President, I would have liked to have answered orally the questions that were already there. I think it would be wise to await Mr Van Rooijen's reply and see what remains, so that perhaps I can take that into account in my reply and my response to the legislative proposal at once. Otherwise, we're gonna keep moving a lot of paper back and forth. We have an AO on pension issues this afternoon. All my people are working hard on that, too. I want to spare them a little bit. So, if you don't mind, I'd like to suspend it until after Mr Van Rooijen's treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u170	I'm gonna take a look around and see that there's support for that, so we'll talk about it in a minute. I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen and his people, the advisor and the Members present here today for their contribution to the first term of the petitioner.
