ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Defence. Thank you for joining us. We have six speakers from the Chamber. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen of the Animal Party opens this debate. She's, I suppose, the applicant for it. We also have a happy occasion, because we have a maiden speech by Mr Emiel van Dijk. He will be the second speaker, so he will speak after Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The Dutch Air Force has taken far too many risks when transporting dangerous substances, according to internal research. Military unions called this irresponsible for the employees of Defence and society. Why was there a year waiting for the task to be carried out? Is it all solved now? Is it safe? The rules that have not been or are not being complied with are the MAR-OPS, the Military Aviation Requirements Operations. By September 2006, Eindhoven Air Force Base should have been certified, so all relevant regulations and procedures should have been implemented and audited at that time. This was extended to 2008, but the MAR-OPS were implemented on 2 November 2015. That's nine years and two months too late! During all these years, there shouldn't have been any flying. There is only one Aviation Act in the Netherlands, no separate law for military aviation. So all this time there's been a happy flown through. And in 2015 it was already in the news that there were serious problems with the transport of hazardous substances from Eindhoven Air Base. The report concluded in 2017 that things were not in order at that time and that the requirements in the MAR-OPS were not met at that time. Mr. Chairman. Can the Secretary of State confirm that Mar-OPS cannot be met in 2015 and that the certification should not have been issued by the Responsible Authority, the Military Aviation Authority? Then how did this happen? Is Eindhoven Air Force Base meeting the requirements? If so, how does that prove? If not, why are the activities not terminated? If a new audit has not been carried out to establish that the many shortcomings have been resolved, it cannot be said that the requirements have been met now, certainly not by the Military Aviation Authority, which has now proved unable to do so. After the lengthy transmission of the internal report, the Chamber had to ask no less than three times for the deliberately withheld annexes. Although that was not the request, we got it confidentially, at first completely in Leeuwarden, but after a few pleas in the Chamber. Can the Secretary of State state whether, in addition to Annexes B and C, there is also an Annex D, E, F and so on? And what does it say? If it's all solved and safe, why so mysterious?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	A question from Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	No, Mr President, rather a point of order. Something's really going wrong here. As a committee, we agreed that the report would not come to the Chamber. That was a committee meeting. In the end, it came about thanks to individual questions. At your service. Just don't come here with the story that it's been held back and that's what it's been asking for a lot of times. It was a committee agreement not to do it. This is an internal report. Let's decide that a little bit in advance, with confidential information. It'll be shared confidentially. That too was a request from the Chamber. It was then announced that it could be done in Leeuwarden. That you were not there is your choice; it was available there. So you can say it was all mysterious, but no, it was available. You weren't there and that was your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	There was indeed a request from the committee to send that internal report including annexes to the Chamber. I hear Mr Bosman saying that it has been rejected, but it is not. There is a letter from the committee asking for this to be sent to the Chamber in confidence. At the committee's procedural meeting we also discussed whether, if the report is confidential, some could be done away with and whether it could possibly be anonymized. We did have to ask for the report three times. Then we had to beg whether those secret attachments could please come to the Chamber. Parts of it would have been wiped out, but they were still in the report somewhere. That was a little sloppy from the D.O.D.'s office. Then we had to go all the way to Leeuwarden. That wasn't announced in advance. The whole meeting was planned with military precision. There wasn't a natural time to go through that thick folder of notifications there. Well, it's confidential. If there are things in it that we have questions about, then I cannot ask for them in a plenary debate. Apparently, there was an official present who could be asked questions. As a Member of Parliament, I just want to be able to carry out my controlling role. It's not gonna happen like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	A lot of things are now being added: that it was messy with the Defense Department, and begging. Nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	That's not bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	This room determines what happened. We agreed that this was available in Leeuwarden. Once again, Mr President, the fact that Mrs Van Kooten was not present was her choice. You can't blame the DOD. It wasn't about a thick pile of attachments. It was a small attachment, which contained a number of things. You could just read it and it was available. The people involved in the investigation were also present. What we also need to keep an eye on is that this is about safety investigations. I do not hear Mrs Van Kooten talking about all the underlying pieces of, for example, an OVV report. She can't read or see them either. I can hear her speak no shame about that, but I do see her looking very seriously at the results of such a report. Would Mrs Van Kooten like to see all the underlying pieces of the OVV reports? Or does she say, no, I accept the outcome of what is lying there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	Of course I want as much information as possible. I was specifically concerned with this internal report, of which the military union also says: this is a danger to society and to the military who work with these substances and who fly on that plane. You say it was just a very small attachment. That's not true. I've learned from a reliable source that it was a thick multomap. The report itself also states that there is a whole list of notifications. So how can this be a small annex? I just want to be able to talk about that freely. You can't do that, and I'm not gonna do that. That is why I did not see the annex specifically. I want to see those reports and I want to know how it worked out. Is it safe now? In fact, it is evident from time to time that it is still not safe and that the problems relating to the transport of dangerous substances have still not been resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	If Mr. Bosman trusts everyone's blue eyes that it's all right, that's fine, but the Animal Party doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	Rounding off and short, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	This is really outrageous. This is really outrageous. I don't trust anyone on their blue eyes. I'm seriously looking at all the information. I also know what responsibilities are, where they are invested and how you can test and control them. I don't trust anyone on their blue eyes, not even Mrs. Van Kooten. You need to be careful about your role and your responsibility. If Mrs Van Kooten isn't present in places where you can just get your information, that shouldn't be a reproach to the Defense Department, but a reproach to herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	It wasn't the agreement in advance and I certainly didn't agree that this would be entirely in Leeuwarden. I wanted the pieces, and I didn't want them confidentially in Leeuwarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. My question is therefore whether everything is all right, even since 2016, as suggested by the commander of Eindhoven Air Force Base in Eindhoven's Dagblad. The commander gives high attention to a unique scanning device that controls cargo at the air base. All cargo loaded in Eindhoven will be checked with that scanner. Can the Secretary of State explain how cargo loaded elsewhere is controlled, for example from Mali, Afghanistan, Leeuwarden and Gilze-Rijen? A scanning device as available on Eindhoven Air Base is not available at most, if not at all other locations from which the Dutch Air Force transports cargo. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. Then there is Mr Emiel van Dijk's maiden speech from the Group of the Party for Freedom. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two issues are central to the PVV in this debate: the security and the information position of the Lower House. The security of the defence personnel and their surroundings must be guaranteed. Whether it is dangerous substances, ammunition or other weapons, the PVV wants the protocols to be known, recognized and respected. In doing so, everyone's knowledge of security must be in order, especially when working with dangerous goods. Defence personnel need to know what to do if something is not right and, also important, what not to do. Only then can an incident reporting system be useful. Does the Secretary of State share this? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that incidents continue to be reported and that the culture of fear does not ensure that one is reluctant or prevented from reporting incidents or even reporting them? In addition, we are not only dealing with the situation here in the Netherlands, but also in mission areas. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that safety knowledge and compliance with procedures are also established on site? Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the information the Lower House receives from the Ministry. On page 5 of the report there is a table of contents. It mentions Annex A, not Annex B, and there is nothing about Annex C. However, if we read further in the report, we can see on page 8 that a reference is made to Annexes B and C. My group is not concerned that the annexes should be made available internally during a working visit, but that they should be found in the report and that it would appear that the table of contents has been tampered with. It even says if you print it out: error, localization not available. So something just doesn't add up; that attachment was tampered with. The suggestion is raised that these annexes have never existed and that smells of deception. Can you state that this is never, never, ever done like this again? If an annex is secret for any reason, it should be in the table of contents, but it can be properly indicated that the annex is confidential and that it may be available elsewhere. But do not change a table of contents afterwards, so that the idea is created as if those annexes had not existed. My group really thinks that goes too far. I'd like a reaction to that. Finally, Mr President. Since this is my maiden speech, I would like to say a few personal words, by the way, of a completely different order. Our country is being destroyed. Broken by drivers who do not put Dutch interests first, but European interests and sometimes, even worse, their own interests. Broken by viewers who are led to the slaughter as easy sheep by hordes of political activists, disguised as journalists, led by the state journalism. Our Netherlands is destroyed by mass immigration. During the seven years I was allowed to work for the PVV in Brussels, I saw for myself how our country is being given away to unelected bureaucrats, with the support of almost all Dutch political parties. I had hoped that things would be different here in the Lower House, but unfortunately the last six months that I have been allowed to work here as a policy officer and as a representative of the people have not given me any other insights. On the contrary, I feel only strengthened in the conviction that if we want to turn the tide, there is only one party that is aware of this and the people are committed to it, and that is my party, the PVV. I therefore find it an enormous honour to be here as a PVV representative on behalf of all our constituents, in order to try to make a contribution to the preservation of our beautiful Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you. Congratulations on your maiden speech. It was the first time you were allowed to stand here. You are only with us temporarily, because you are replacing a pregnant colleague who is no longer pregnant. If you will remain here for a moment, it is an honor and a pleasure to be the first to congratulate you. I note that you have made a glowing speech, with a few nice hard notes also towards the Secretary of State, whom I saw immediately turning white. As an accomplished MP, you've gone gloriously through your time. A golden future awaits you! Congratulations! I forgot to mention it, but I'm going to suspend for congratulations and flowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	So far. The party pig has just ordered the messenger to cut off the flowers mostly obliquely, so the suspension I have inserted must unfortunately take ten minutes longer. Anyway, let's keep going anyway. I would like to give the floor to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My congratulations also to the previous speaker from this point on. I've already seen him at the procedural meeting. I actually thought he'd just been working for years, so that's good. Mr. Chairman. I've never talked about culture as much as I've talked about the past two weeks. That's how long I'm gonna be in the Department of Defense after I get back. It has often been about culture in the chromium-6 affair, in the Veteran Ombudsman's report on how complaints are handled and in the General Court's report on the mission in Mali. Every time, the culture of the Defense Department passed by, a culture that makes you consciously let your employees use paint when you know that that paint is life-threatening, a culture that makes you not really take complaints and therefore the people who submit the complaints seriously, a culture that sometimes makes you not sufficiently transparent about what you can do and what you don't. Today, too, it's about the culture within the Defense Department. This time it is about the safety culture in relation to the transport of dangerous substances. There is insufficient involvement in management, low level of knowledge and inadequate training, insufficient implementation of the role of the safety advisor and more shortcomings. It is a whole laundry list, to be summarized under the heading "When transporting dangerous substances, safety is not on the retina of the air force." That's what the Air Force itself says. The Minister, who wrote a letter to the Chamber about this, says of that investigation, in which that conclusion is drawn, that this fits in with the regular improvement cycle in the Defense Department. I certainly hope that lessons have been learned from the report in question. But trying to sell a year after a series of incidents from eventually necessary research as the regular way to improve processes is, to say the least, a bit odd. That's a culture thing, too, maybe. I ask the Secretary of State if we can draw the conclusion from that investigation that we have actually been very lucky that a plane did not come down after burning or exploding dangerous cargo, cargo that should not have been on board at all or that was poorly packed. That is a dangerous situation according to experts. The question is, of course, whether the processes have improved and whether, if there is a cultural problem, you are there with it, whether it was only the air force's sense of safety about dangerous substances or whether it was the other military components, whether it was investigated and whether it has led to conclusions and action in that regular "plan-do-check-act" cycle of Defence. Finally, I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether the number of incidents, as it is now called so euphemistically, has been reduced to zero, because that is what it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Diks from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, the warm congratulations to Mr Van Dijk. It was a lovely maiden speech. I don't think I totally agree with that, but I think he doesn't think that's a problem. As disgusting as you may think about the governance culture, I had the feeling that we've worked together in the last few months. At least that's how I remembered it. Mr. Chairman. Back to the subject. Security is and remains the biggest problem in the Defense Department. A report leaked through Nieuwsuur showed that this has also applied in recent years for the transport of dangerous substances by the air force. It is yet another sign on the wall of an organization where for years the can-domeality prevailed over the safety of the employees. We have therefore rightly had a major debate recently about the security culture in the defence sector and a plan of action by the rulers to improve this. GroenLinks sees a genuine commitment of the directors to bring about a cultural change in the security culture with Defence and thereby strengthen the learning capacity of the organisation. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Chamber has already given itself a strong control position by asking the government to set up an independent visitation committee. Does the Secretary of State have any idea of the time limit within which this committee can be set up, the composition of the committee and the time at which it can be set up? Specifically with regard to the transport of dangerous substances, the Secretary of State says that dangerous substances have been assigned to the Air Force and that controls have been tightened. That sounds like a wise decision. I have a few questions about that. Can the Secretary of State say anything about the number of incidents and the category of gravity that these incidents cover? Has there been a significant reduction in the number of incidents caused by the measures taken? Has the DOD identified the risks posed by the transport of dangerous substances by the Defence Department to human health and the environment? Is the security measures also explicitly considered how these risks can be minimized, apart of course from the security of the defence personnel themselves? Finally, has the maritime forces and the army also looked at the transport of dangerous substances? Are there any incidents in these defence sectors and, if so, is it not important, for example, to appoint safety advisers for hazardous substances? I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you. I call Mrs Belhaj from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the report on Transport Dangerous Substances. Some colleagues have already spoken at a somewhat broader level. In the past, there have been concerns that we still have about the extent to which Defence is able to operate in a safe manner. There are many reasons to look back and see why this does not happen occasionally, but there is now reason to talk about this in plenary because there are some questions. Some of the questions have already been asked by colleagues, so you will forgive me if there is some kind of repetition. We can conclude from the research report that five aspects were identified as shortcomings at the time and that six recommendations were made. My first question is why these shortcomings could have occurred earlier. One can look at how to solve the shortcomings and develop all new tools, but you can also say: you have a culture within a company, but you also have rules within a company. So how could that have happened at all? To what extent have all the recommendations been followed and implemented? I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to that request. Perhaps the Secretary of State can dismiss a report as one of many reports. In the end, we will see them in an annual report somewhere. But every report is one and every report legitimizes to ask questions about it. There are parliamentary committees that debate for less. I understand the need not to send every report to the Chamber, but in this case it concerns several years and it is a structural deficiency, which forces us to ask some more questions about it. It has now been found that the Eindhoven Air Force Base in 2007 still did not comply with the Military Aviation Regulation Operations, which are just rules for military aviation that followed that certification should not have been issued. The question is whether the Eindhoven Air Force Base meets the requirements. If that is the case, what does that prove? If a new audit has not been carried out to establish that the deficiencies have been resolved, it cannot be said that the requirements are now being met. In addition, we note that, in view of the problems in 2007, the Military Aviation Authority wrongly issued the certification in 2015. This means that this body may not have been able to determine whether the certification could be issued. Was there any other reason on the basis of which the certification was issued? This is rather close, because we have set up all kinds of institutions to check whether a certification can be issued. The fact that a certification was issued despite the fact that the airbase did not meet the requirements frightens me, because you have to be able to rely on it. The question is also whether we would like to do this in the same way or whether we would like to do it in a different way. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State whether, given the seriousness of the situation, it is possible to carry out an additional audit and review the implementation of the recommendation. I would also ask him to examine how it could have happened at all that a permit has been issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Bosman of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr President, I too, of course, would like to congratulate Mr Van Dijk. They're recognizable lyrics. I wish him good luck for the coming period, although it is temporary. You'll be missed if you leave again. Mr. Chairman. This thirty-member debate on the risks associated with the transport of dangerous substances by the Air Force is a good reason to highlight once again that this report is a model of good research in the Defence Department and how good research should work. This study was carried out because the safety organisation had noticed that there had been an increase in the number of incidents involving the transport of dangerous substances. Based on that concern, the security organization has decided to launch an investigation. That didn't happen on the basis of an accident or a newspaper report. No, that happened because internal control thought something was going wrong here. This is the core of a working security organisation; let us conclude that. Is everything perfect? No. There is still plenty to do, but let us also mention the successes. Many of the conclusions had already been started when the report was leaking to the press. It is also a pity that there is a great deal of fuss about the shortcomings that have been noted and so little appreciation is given to the self-learning capacity of that organization, which is still working on them. The Van der Veer Committee found that there was still a lot wrong with security within the Defense Department and that it is not a learning organisation. That observation is correct, but there are also places where a serious effort is being made to make it learnable. So let us set these situations as an example. Mr. Chairman. In the report we read: "The purpose of the investigation, carried out by the Committee of Research, is to determine the (possible) causes of the incident, so that learning opportunities are found, not to establish guilt or liability." That is a very important sentence. So this is an internal investigation designed to learn from the mistakes. What is important then is that people involved in the research, both the researchers and the respondents, feel completely free to speak out. If the investigation can be used to establish guilt or liability, all respondents should also have the right to remain silent. With that right of silence, therefore, nothing will be learned from mistakes. In short, this type of research deserves legal protection, not to keep it under the hat but to get more information. The fact that this is nothing special is shown by the fact that the Safety Research Council, the OVV, works like this for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	A question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	Back up a little bit. Mr Bosman points out that it is very important that, on the basis of his own observations, an internal investigation should be carried out. That's important, you say. But my question is to you: how do you feel about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	How does Mr Bosman feel about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr President, how does Mr Bosman feel about what I am about to say, namely that it took a year after the observation? So you notice something, you think "we have to take action on it," and then it takes a year for you to do research. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	No, it's a collection of activities that brings you together, where you notice things go wrong. Then there will be an investigation. On the basis of this internal investigation, the possibilities for improvement are set out, and they are being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	But that investigation wasn't carried out until a year later. So you actually think that if you notice something, you should examine it right away and not wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	You have to be sure that what you're investigating is also what you want to deal with. So as soon as possible. I will be very honest: I don't know all the environmental factors, so I'm very careful with that. It's an internal investigation; we don't know the ins and outs. So I'm being very careful just to conclude that something went wrong. So the core is: as soon as you see it, you need to do research as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr Bosman gives up on the self-learning capacity of the Defense Department. Can you give some concrete examples of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	This is a very concrete example. I do not think it can be much clearer, precisely because people see that there are mistakes, and there are many, really many. Am I saying it's okay? No. Are there any major concerns? Yes. Does the Van der Veer committee say there are concerns? Yes, of course, but we shouldn't pretend here that this organization is absolutely in total disarray and not learning. I think, in all honesty, that we should balance that. So if Mrs Arissen thinks that the organisation is not working, I would like to hear it. I disagree. I think there are certainly very positive effects and things are really being set in motion to improve it. These are precisely the examples that we need to highlight. Those are the things you have to put down as a mirror, as a touchstone, and you have to say: boys, this is how we want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	Let us stick to the subject of the transport of dangerous substances by air. These MAR-OPS should have been implemented in 2006. That was 2008. In the end, it was implemented nine years and two months too late. Certification is not justified. In 2015 Parliamentary questions were already asked in this house about the transport of dangerous substances and all the risks and everything that went wrong there. We are now living in 2018. I don't see any self-learning ability in the Defense Department at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u38	Then you must have your eyes closed. Then you can; that is a choice by Mrs Van Kooten. Of course you can look at the glass as half empty or half full. The VVD is positive. We are proud of our men and women in the armed forces, who are doing their stinking best to keep that organization running in the most beautiful way. That there are problems is recognised, also by the VVD. That's what we're worried about. But there are also certain things that are being handled well. Again, this research is an example of this. Mrs Arissen can pick up now and say "it's all wrong," but I'm not going anywhere. This is a good example of good research in which you learn from the problems that exist and that you notice for yourself. Formally, this is also an internal process. I think that is very important, because all these things should be part of those internal processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u39	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u40	If Mr Bosman, on behalf of the VVD, is so very proud of that self-learning ability and of this wonderful research report, why would you go and paint annexes from the table of contents and leave them sloppy in the report and say, "Oh, no, they are confidential and the Chamber shouldn't actually see them, because it is an internal report"? The organisation should be proud of that research and should give the Chamber the opportunity to carry out its controlling task. But neither does the DOD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u41	Then it is difficult, because it is important that you understand a bit how safety investigations work. In these kinds of security investigations you can ask very personal questions, people may tell very personal things, and they outline environments that are not actually intended for the public, but essential for the security question, for the improvement of the organisation. Then you can say very tough that transparency is everything. But I will come back to my question, also to Mrs Van Kooten: we do not ask for that in the OVV report either. The OVV has very large pieces that are just confidential. I do not hear anger about painting away at the OVV, about withholding all kinds of reports from the OVV. In the report on Mali, Mrs Arissen was standing at the front with the same OVV report, and the OVV works exactly the same. Then there were no tough texts from the Party of Animals in the vein of "where are the underlying pieces?" And "where's the place covered in the OVV report on Mali?" No, the O.V.V. report was a good report. But underlying documents that are confidential, where you sometimes have to protect people, are confidential. It's called confidentiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u42	I have heard you three times, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. But you were a little challenged, weren't you? Well, that's what you have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u43	That's very easy, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u44	Well, I wasn't very challenged, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u45	Well, I guess you won't get the floor then. Then we're gonna listen to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u46	But it's Party for Animals, not Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u47	Okay. But I'm the only one who got your name right today. Mr Bosman talks about both "Mrs Van Kooten" and "Mrs Arissen." It's getting a little confusing for the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u48	It is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u49	They can send in the right solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u50	It's a broad debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr Bosman speaks of a good report, but I would like to know what he thinks of the conclusions of this report. There is insufficient involvement in management in this issue, insufficient knowledge among the people, insufficient training, insufficient knowledge of the role of the safety advisor and so on. How does Mr Bosman feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u52	Again, this is an internal report, in which the organisation itself comes to that conclusion. So they say: hey, something's going wrong; we have to do something with this. My judgment of value is totally unrelated to that, because I think that the organization here is picking up something that they themselves think is going wrong. If a value judgment is requested, I think it's very good. It is worrying that it should be noted, but it is good that it has been noted. A lot of things have also been set in motion. The report's already running. It's leaked, so in the meantime, a lot of things had already started. So I have confidence in that; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u53	I had a laugh, because I see the chairman nodding very understandingly. Of course, he's free to do that. Last week I heard from the President that I should not draw conclusions from non-verbal reactions. So I didn't. I think he heard you. I am not concerned with the investigation itself, because you say that you appreciate the fact that the investigation has taken place and that its conclusions have been taken by the Secretary of State, but have you been alarmed by those findings? Were you shocked by those very sad findings that were found in that report? Did you look at that or do you say that these are all small things and that it is good that they have been detected but that there is not so much going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u54	No, again, I did not express a value judgment on the conclusions that have been drawn. Let's put that first. The findings are worrying and the conclusions are good, because there is a lot to be done, but the positive side is that it is being picked up and that people say they have to do something with it. What matters to me is that this investigation was carried out in response to internal investigations. Let us all focus on this once again: this is the very core of how security organisations should work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u55	You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u56	Yes. The Swiss model of accident investigation within Defense is through the military justice system. In addition to the cause, they also look for the culprit at the same time, but just as within the Dutch penal system, you have the right to remain silent when investigating the question of guilt. You're not helping safety with that. Countries such as the United States have legislation within their security investigations to obtain all information precisely within the security domain. In addition, a judicial investigation can run parallel to the security investigation. I've insisted on this before. Defense is now redesigning a supervisor and a research organisation. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether she also considers this legal protection important in the context of a security investigation and whether she is going to take steps to achieve that legal guarantee in accordance with the OVV. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u57	I have heard Mr Bosman say this before, but I find this fascinating. If you reflect the lyrics on how the VVD deals with abuses on another subject, for example in development cooperation organisations, and if you place that next to the things you say today, you will see a world of difference. You could just do yourself a favor by looking at that. Why do I hate it when you say it's a good thing they did an internal investigation and they're working on it? In this respect you hold the people who have made mistakes over their heads; so it seems. We've had an incredible amount of luck that nothing went wrong. Doing this with "they have learned from it" and "let's also encourage people to come out by giving their legal protection" is, in my opinion, an incredibly bad signal. If this is the line of the VVD, I am also surprised that she does not do the same on other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u58	Just so we're clear: here too, the weather doesn't help if you don't know exactly what this is like in the OVV or in safety investigations. It's not legal protection. The point is that whatever you tell in the security investigation is confidential and gives immunity within that investigation. Of course, the D.A. can also do research, but in the context of a legal investigation you have the right to remain silent. Let me give you a simple example. If my 9-year-old daughter is aiming at a vase, I can give her two choices. I can say, "I like hearing from you if you did it, and I'm not gonna get mad at you." Or I say if I find out you did it, it's gonna cost you your allowance and you're not gonna play with your girlfriend for three weeks. How do you think I get the right answer? In the second case, I certainly don't get that. That goes for everyone. It's childishly simple, childishly simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u59	The point is that this is not about childish things. These people are employed by the Department of Defense. They sign to meet a number of requirements that are required to be able to safely do your job. The comparison with your daughter is therefore totally flawed. In your comparison, someone is open when you reward him and protect him. If you work for the Defense Department and make mistakes that can have huge negative consequences, you may receive a reprimand or use all kinds of other existing employers' tools. So again, the equation you're making is limping. Even if there is an investigation at the Public Prosecutor's Office, they have the right not to burden themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u60	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u61	But what we're not going to do here in the Chamber is encourage us to reward people who make mistakes at the Department of Defense by protecting them, so that there's information on the table? Then we'll throw an extra commission on it to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u62	With all due respect to Mrs. Belhaj, something really goes wrong here. I never said people get rewarded for bad behavior. Never. The core of safety is that you want the bottom stone above. That sometimes means that you have to be able to tell in such an investigation that you slept badly, that you personally made the choice to fly under a bridge, that it wasn't an accident. Then you suddenly get it: that has no effect on the fleet, but it has been the person himself. The moment it's a criminal investigation, you have the right not to say anything. Then I still don't know what caused the accident. Then we can say very toughly "I'm gonna punish everyone, because you have an obligation to tell me what you've done," but people don't have to incriminate themselves. You don't have to. And then I don't have the bottom stone on top. The core of security is, I repeat, in this Chamber: the bottom stone must be above. Anything's got to be on the table. But that is only possible if you give people immunity in the context of a safety investigation, I repeat: in the context of a safety investigation. The OVV really does the same thing: legal protection, including for the researchers. The investigators can't even be subpoenaed. They're just legally protected. It's as simple as that. So again, if we think here that I'm proposing something that's really ridiculous, then we have to think of the OVV as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u63	Mrs. Belhaj, brief and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u64	The difference with the OVV is that it is an external committee. The signal you're sending isn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u65	That Mr. Bosman's handing over?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u66	What do you say, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u67	Are you referring to the signal Mr Bosman sends out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u68	Whatever you say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u69	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr Bosman pointed out that there would be no difference between the OVV investigations and internal investigations. He says it will lead to a better safety culture if you say to people in front of you: it's better to be honest, because we're not punishing you. But, Mr. Bosman, there is another possibility. That is, through you, Mr President, to protect Mr Bosman: the people who know, the people who see it. You have a lot of people making small reports, filing complaints, who have been whistleblowers. Those people must reward you. There are. Those people can tell you what someone did. And if you protect those people well, and not those who have done wrong, then you meet your own slogan: Whoever is bad deserves punishment and not a reward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mrs Belhaj is pulling a number of things apart again. Because, of course, anyone who wishes to report should have the right to do so and be protected in it. But then it is better, in all confidentiality, in all openness, in the context of security, to do your story under legal protection. Mrs. Belhaj and I agree. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u72	I'm getting pretty mad about this anyway. Mr Bosman compares the overthrow of a vase with life-threatening situations, such as aircraft burning from the sky. I think this is outrageous. This is really not about anything. Speaking of kids... If someone's flying a plane under a bridge for fun, they'll just be fired and prosecuted. And you're going to keep people who make mistakes, who risk people's lives, over their heads! You say, no, we can't wipe out the names, because the reports must remain confidential. I find this a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u73	It'll help if you understand how it works. That's really handy, isn't it? Airplanes flying out of the sky and comparing that to something with children: it is really a bit scandalous what Mrs Van Kooten is doing here, but okay. In this concern of Mrs Van Kooten, I miss the fact that the OVV repeats exactly: exactly what I propose is doing exactly what I propose. That is not what I hear about this shameful reaction. I do not hear that it is terrible what the OVV is doing, that it really cannot be that the OVV does not show anything, that transparency of the OVV needs to be missed and that we as a Chamber are not really able to move on with OVV reports because not everything is clear and transparent. So I'm very curious how Mrs Arissen looks... Sorry. I am therefore very curious to see how Mrs Van Kooten looks at such reports. I'm nothing else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u74	I really have to respond to this. Mr Bosman continues to compare OVV reports and investigations with this internal investigation. The fact is that the Department of Defense has done away with the annex from the table of contents and has forgotten to paint it in the next part. If they hadn't forgotten that, we never would have known there were any attachments left. Then say: we still have the annexes A to so many, but you should not see them, and that is why. Or: we sent it anonymized to the Chamber. But not that mysterious behavior when you're so self-learning and so transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mrs Van Kooten and I also agree. We want this to be regulated by law. That is also my proposal. I'm not talking about this subject. We need to legally anchor this for the future. Then it's no longer a snapshot policy: there's going to be an investigation, an investigation where you've talked to people in complete confidentiality and where you've really asked what it's like, and that's going to end up somewhere, which suddenly becomes transparent, when you thought it was a security investigation. I'd like to give you that protection. At the heart of the matter is that it is in the context of a security investigation. Now we can pretend I'm unique in that, but the OVV does it, the U.S. does it, the Americans do it, and the Sweden does it. So it's nothing new. They do it precisely because people learn from these kinds of investigations. The Swiss are not doing it, and so they find that they are getting much less information, because it is a legal investigation right away. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u76	Very good. I'm gonna suspend until 11:10 and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u77	I was still...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u78	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin the substantive answer, I would of course also like to congratulate Mr Van Dijk on his maiden speech. That will always be a special moment. I hope you look back on that in a good way during your time in the Chamber. Perhaps there will be another moment when Mr Van Dijk can sit in the Chamber, but who knows what the future will bring. Another welcome to Mr. Kerstens. He started his contribution by referring to culture. Then I thought he might have become a cultural spokesperson. That is not the case, but he has mainly referred to cultural aspects within the Defense Department. I will come back to that in a moment. Could the chair be a little higher, Mr. Chairman? Thank you. I shall begin with the findings of the report. I'd like to go into the trial first. I heard a number of terms like "deception" and "consciously withholding." I've got the report in front of me myself. For example, in my print I can see that there is a bookmark with the contents of the table of contents: bookmark wrongly defined in section 3.5 external factors. Apparently, that's just the table of contents of a Word document and has nothing to do with deception. All the attachments that are there, you have just received. I think that's very important to mark. How exactly does Word of pdf makeup work? I control a lot of things, but I don't control them. I think that's important to note. I would also like to mention that there are almost 5,000 reports within the Ministry of Defence every year. That's what Mr Bosman brought up. So there are about 5,000 reports of incidents or near-incidents, of things people say: I think something might go wrong. Research can be carried out on this. Those are all internal investigations. They're confidential. For every company that works with safety management systems it does this kind of internal investigations. We have sent the report following the request of the Chamber, but we have also said that we keep the annexes confidential, because it contains personal data. There's data in there that can be traced back to people. We are also simply dealing with the protection of our people when it comes to the things they report, but also when it comes to traceable data, precisely for the safety of these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u80	I just want to make it clear that I didn't say that there was any deception. I said it smells like deception. So I'd like to correct that. But perhaps the Secretary of State can explain why chapter 3.5 doesn't even exist. Maybe something went wrong with the page numbering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u81	I don't know how the layout of the report went. I sent you the pieces as they are. You say it smells like deception. If I wanted to do it differently, I might have done it smarter. I wouldn't have referred to it. I sent you all the pieces. I have, however, made the point that I am still making that we have to deal carefully with things that affect the personal confidentiality of people reporting matters. I have therefore also offered you the opportunity to get an explanation of the reports, for example on Leeuwarden air base. I have the reports here in front of me. Then you could have asked your own questions and asked for clarification on exactly what is going on. That's what's on offer. That work visit was over. I have to say that no one has asked that question. There was someone waiting to explain everything, to answer your questions and to lead you through that report. Whether it's in Leeuwarden, that as far as I'm concerned isn't a corner of the Netherlands, it's the European Capital of Culture or anywhere else, that possibility is always open. I'm offering you all these. But I do think it's important that we treat notifications confidentially. There are hundreds of them with personal confidential data in them. You can ask me to do so, and you must ask me to do so, because it is about my people, who simply need to be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u82	Of course, that goes without saying. But then there's the next question. The work visit was on Friday 13 April. This report is dated... Oh, I'm wrong. I'm sorry. It is dated 18 May 2017. But then my question remains as to why the annexes were subsequently removed from this report if you are prepared to make those annexes available for inspection. Reference is also made to this. For example, it says: see Annex B and C for the overviews as from 1 January 2013. Or: look at Appendix A, on page 18. The report then deals with page 5 of 21, while it ends on page 19. I think it's more than a wrong format. I understand that you are not concerned with formatting, but how is it possible that there is reference to Annexes B and C, but that they are not in them? I still find that very strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u83	Because they're confidential attachments. You're suggesting it's deception. You said it smells like it. That's why I'm bringing it up, because those are serious accusations. But I wouldn't have left it in the report. It's just in there. Those annexes shall be confidential. You've also been given access to it confidentially. I offered you a further explanation in Leeuwarden, and you could ask all your questions about it. I understand your concern. An explanation could be given as to how these reports have been handled and how they should be interpreted. That offer has been made to you. I'm not talking about what you meet on the committee and at the procedural meeting. It's up to the committee itself. But I'd like to distance myself from the idea that the DOD didn't want to provide information. I absolutely want to provide all the information. You've seen it yourself. I sent you a letter two weeks ago following a fatal diving accident in the Antilles. In that I indicated that I would like to send these kinds of studies on lessons learned to you, precisely to be clear and transparent and to be an organisation that wants to show learning ability. I think that's important. That brings me to Mrs Belhaj and the discussion she had with Mr Bosman. In my view, you have asked me very strongly, for example, in connection with the discussion on Schaarsbergen, to look at the willingness to report. We want to be an organization in which people feel free to report. That's very important and that's why you want some things to remain confidential, because you don't want it to be traceable to people and people. The same applies to this annex. That's why it's confidential.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u84	I think we will never get the whole truth out, but if you say that it is logical that you remove attachments that are confidential from the index, because they are not added to a document, let us agree on the following. If this is the case next time, they will remain in the index with in brackets 'confidential', so that the Chamber knows: hey, I want to know a little more about it, then I can ask about it. Then the decision lies with you to give it to us or not. But then there can never be another misunderstanding. Maybe that's a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u85	I regret that there has been a misunderstanding, but I really did not look at the annexes when it comes to the table of contents. You asked me for the report. I sent you the report, and I informed you that there were annexes and they were kept confidential for inspection. How the table of contents came about and that there were misunderstandings... It is as I said to Mr Van Dijk: if we had not wanted it, we would not have included it in the report either. I've just provided you with the information that's there, too. In my view, that is the essence of your question, Mrs Belhaj, that you simply want the information that is available to the Chamber to be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u86	The fact remains that the Chamber has asked three times, once by me in the regulation and once in committee and then again in committee, for the report plus annexes. I would like to comment on what Mr Van Dijk said, because that is true. The table of contents contains Section 3.5, which is called "External Factors." That's what it says behind it, "Wrong! Bookmark not defined." That's right. If you used to write a paper and you wanted to change something in it, then you got all kinds of crazy stuff in the table of contents. So I understand. However, on page 16, "Other IGS providers' are listed as the name of paragraph 3.5. So the name of the paragraph doesn't match either. It is indeed very strange that the table of contents refers to Annex A. There is no mention of other annexes. In the text I see Annex B and C. Who can guarantee me that there will not be an annex D, E and F and so on, which will happen to have been wiped away? I am very sorry that I cannot rely on what I read and see here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u87	I'm really moving away from this. Really, I find this too bizarre for words. If I had wanted to suggest that I was holding something back, it wouldn't have been in the report. The fact that there is a table of contents that is not correct can happen. Can I ever guarantee that this will never happen again? No, because it can always be that a table of contents is wrong. I would like to inform you that there is an annex B and C. They are confidential, and I keep them confidential, precisely for the reasons I have told you. It contains personal confidential information. And I don't want any of our military to be traceable, so suddenly someone's on their sidewalk. That's all I care about. You can talk to me about this, because then we are here in the Chamber debating together how personal data from military personnel could have become known. That's an essential thing. I told you there are three annexes, A, B and C, B and C are confidential. It is indeed from 2017. As far as the table of contents is concerned, I can only guess about it. If you ask me if there are any other annexes, the answer is no. These are the attachments. If something had been wiped out, you could have seen it in the report itself. That's not true. You've been able to read it. So I've given you the information, and I'm really giving up the suggestion as if this report had been cheated on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u88	I'm just asking the Secretary of State a few questions. It is absolutely not my intention that reporters with their names, names and addresses should be widely known. Absolutely not. I also have absolutely no problem with the fact that certain documents are confidential, but I do want this to be communicated normally. What causes suspicion? Because for several years in a row it has been said 'we're working on it', 'we're on top of it','safety risks are being addressed'. Now it appears that the certification was probably wrongly issued. It took nine years and two months for that MAR-OPS to be implemented. Mr. Chairman. This is making me a little despondent. It is said, now also by the Secretary of State: "everything is fine," but over and over again it turns out that it is not okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u89	This is not an interruption, with all due respect. You started your question about the attachment and whether all the information was there. I gave you an answer to that. You can disagree with that. I'm fine with all that. But then you're gonna make an interruption that you're gonna bring up everything I haven't even said. For you will not hear me say one thing, never, that everything is in order. That didn't come out of my mouth, and you're not gonna hear it from me. You mention all kinds of things that I have not even answered, so let us agree that if you are interrupting, you are simply asking a question that I can give a yes-no answer to, which you can ask me about further. But your question was: are there any more attachments? No. Your question was then: why should I trust that? I explained that to you. I have also explained to you why I think that is important. You may disagree with that, but I think that is very important. That is why I also mentioned Mrs Belhaj, because I want an organisation where people can report things. Just as Mr Bosman said, if you think "it was actually my own fault, I may not have done so well, I just have to report this." Of course, Mrs Belhaj, consequences can then be drawn. But it's about that culture. I believe that this is also something you have instructed me to do, in connection with the Schaarsbergen dossier, in which you have literally asked: how can we ensure that this willingness to report can be increased in the organisation? Then we're talking about just culture, then you're talking about people who are willing to report things they think are: hmmm... That is exactly what we are talking about here. That is why, as Mr Bosman said, this is an example of a report that showed that people within the organisation had something of "it did not go wrong, but we are concerned; we have a report here that we want to know if it is structural or not." This shows that it is something structural, that there was not one incident but that there was more going on, that more measures were needed to get it in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u90	Now something special is happening. Schaarsbergen and the willingness to report is about people who were victims within the Defence Organization on different parts, who were afraid to report because they were afraid that they would be thrown out by people who are higher up in the hierarchy. So if you make the link between victims and people who are perpetrators, in that they do things that aren't allowed, I think something is going wrong. So if that's not the point, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u91	No, I didn't mean to. And the Schaarsbergen file is just under criminal investigation. So let's just wait and see. But your request to do so, and also my own mission is to do so not only with regard to social security but also with regard to physical safety, as you have also read in the Safety Plan that we consider it important to increase that willingness to report. Whether that's about bullying behavior that can arise on the workplace floor, about discrimination on the workplace floor or around security incidents or possible, preventable security incidents that make you feel free to report something, which makes you think "I can see it go wrong, how am I going to do that"... It has to do with that culture, which I believe you have said, also in the context of the approach plan, that this must be done. That is what we have instructed the Giebels Committee to see how we can improve this, precisely in that broader context. So I don't just relate it to Schaarsbergen. If that suggestion arose, I think that is what I hope to have taken away from Mrs Belhaj. Mr. Chairman. Then, in general terms, in response to a number of questions put by Members of Parliament. As I have just said, this is an example of an internal investigation into nearly 5,000 reports per year. I have also indicated to you that I would like to give an overview in the annual reports of the number of reports we have, of incidents or near-occurrences. Mr Kerstens, I can't help it, but that's just what we call it. The system is even called'reporting of occurrences', so that is just the definition we apply. In doing so, we would also like to give you an insight into the themes we see. On which main issues when it comes to safety, which may be social security or physical safety, are we seeing more incidents that are likely to happen because it is apparently more reported? That is one aspect. A second aspect of this research, which was therefore an internal study to learn, is that something had not gone wrong, but that there were some indications that were thought to be "not correct" and that it turned out to be so. It turned out that dangerous material went with it in a wrong way, for example, because there were no labels or because the registration was not good. Measures have been taken on this and we are still working on it. There are audits to see if we are on the right track. As a result of the Van der Veer Committee, we have made 75 million available for investment for a reason. One of those things concerns the security advisors. We have appointed them, but we see that more people are needed. Work is now under way to ensure that it can become a full-time function. We're gonna make people available for that. That's part of the safety plan. So, has any measure been taken on the matter of that security advisor? Yes. Is it fully implemented? No, not yet. Are we looking at it? Yeah, because we're just doing regular audits once in a while. It is exactly as Mr Bosman said: it is something that will happen continuously and which will actually be picked up on every subject within the Defense Department on those 5,000 reports I just mentioned. The question of whether there has been any waiting to pick up these improvement measures, I say no. Mrs Arissen, excuse me, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, I'm sorry, Mr President, I've just got to get used to it. Asked if there was a year waiting. No, this is an incident that's been reported. A committee was then set up to carry out a broader investigation. It took that committee a year to complete that investigation and to broaden it. This does not mean that no measures have been taken in the meantime. As a result of the investigation, a complete picture has been established and this has been offered to the Air Force to work on it. It's being implemented now. One of these aspects is the scanner at Eindhoven. We ensure that dangerous substances are transported from other airports to Eindhoven via road transport. That is where the civil standards and no specific standards apply to Defence. We are quite strict when it comes to road transport. The substances have to go through the scanner via Eindhoven, which allows you to rule out the possibility that dangerous substances would go in the wrong way. This includes the right documentation. In the report you have read that mistakes have been made. This has to do with the aspect Mr Kerstens mentioned: culture. People need to be aware that if they give cargo, they have to complete the correct information. You're responsible for the proper delivery of that. We can stop all kinds of things from happening through the scanner on Eindhoven, but you actually want to sit in front of that, in the consciousness before you hand things along. You have to realize that you have to label it right, that you just give it along so that it can be properly loaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u92	I have one more question about that scanner. Suppose you load the goods, the cargo, on an air base without a scanner. How can it be guaranteed that this cargo will be flown safely and that it will be flown according to the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u93	The transport of dangerous substances is carried from Eindhoven. If you're talking about mission area, the responsibility lies with the sender. That's why you shouldn't just rely on that scanner. It is also about the sender's awareness of proper labelling and storage. The sender could be a party other than the DOD. We are looking at how we can work with other Member States in mission areas, which do have a scanner there. Then we could take advantage of that. In mission areas where you don't have a scanner, it's actually even more important that that consciousness is there. Hence the recommendation of training courses to invest in awareness. Again, in mission areas, we are looking at working with other parties to put scanners at airports, for example, so that we can make use of them. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u94	I am pleased that the Secretary of State indicates that work is under way on this very important security awareness, but it is not yet in order. I understand that it is being worked on, but how can you guarantee that, despite the lack of that security awareness, we can trust that cargo loaded into mission areas will be transported safely? How's the Secretary of State handling that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u95	I can never guarantee anything with an organization of 57,000 people. I am not personally wrong to check every time that it is done properly. So all we have to do is make sure that it comes between our ears and creates conditions. That's what we're doing. Is that perfect yet? No, because otherwise we would not have been here with each other, nor would we have had a debate with Minister Hennis last autumn. Then the Commander of the Armed Forces would not have resigned either and we would not have had a Van der Veer report that would simply show us a very large mirror and simply state: "You have some aspects not in order. You are doing well, because you have a can-domentality, so you make things possible that others do not, but you forget one aspect. And the fact that it is safe so far actually has to do with the people, because they still use their common sense reasonably. But you must ensure, dear employer, that your people have the right guarantees." That's what we're doing. But I don't have it in order yet. That's what I reported. I will not say here in this Chamber that things are in order within the Defense Department, because otherwise we would not have invested an additional 75 million and we would not have had a security defence plan with each other. And I said it's a continuous process, because it's not just about a new security management system. Yesterday I had a debate with Mr Bosman on how to change your management system. It's not just about putting a new structure in the organization; it's also about dealing with ammunition, whether you're diving, or with dangerous substances in the air, asking yourself if it's justified and if you've done the safety checks there. The culture, the can-domality is very good and I would keep it that way, but that's part of what you do when you see that your colleague doesn't do it, you go to your colleague and say, "Oh, watch out, you don't want to do this." That's what you want to do with each other. Does that mean nothing's ever gonna go wrong again? No. But I'm concerned that if anything goes wrong, it'll be reported. That's what I see, including the Air Force. Of course, reports are still coming in. That is a good thing, because that means that people are keen on it. That means they're talking to each other about that. And something that is conscious can have legal consequences, but sometimes a group of marines just subconsciously still have deodorant in their backpacks. What can I do for you? You don't have to, but it's gonna happen. And yes, you have to appeal to them. You're gonna have to make sure they don't do that next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u96	I am glad that the Secretary of State is aware of this and is working on it, but I am still really concerned that the Commander of Eindhoven Air Force Base, following this internal report and the recommendations, says that in 2016 everything was in order and that all the recommendations have been taken over, while I hear the Secretary of State say that it is a fact that it is not yet in order, but that she is working on it. Then how does she indicate what the commander of Eindhoven Air Force Base is saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u97	In response to this report, I offered you the letter. I have said that the recommendations are being adopted and implemented. I didn't say they were all implemented. That's exactly what I'm saying: we're still working on it. That is why I think it is important that we continue to carry out audits. This is actually true in every field, whether it is chromium-6 or other dangerous substances. We need to stay focused on it and ask others to keep our focus on it, whether it is internal, as has happened in this case, or an ADR or any other party. Now, because of this diving accident, we have a complete stop for a week so that everyone realizes: we shouldn't want this with each other. Is it fixed? No. The same applies to those dangerous substances. We now carry out regular audits of those five recommendations. It shows that we don't have everything in order yet. Let me give you an example of this safety advisor. I was just saying that there are, but we've noticed that there needs to be more capacity. We're solving it now by adding more capacity. Those people need training. Have they all been trained yet? No, not yet. We have trained a number of people, but more people need to be trained. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Recommendations have been accepted, but work is under way. Mrs. Belhaj asked if there were any more reports and if they would ever come again. I think we'll always keep reports, but we want as few as possible. That is the intention in terms of security level. Is that how it's solved? No. Am I worried? Yes. That was also the question put by Mr Kerstens and Mr Bosman: what do you think of this report? Yeah, it's a worrying report. We need to get things in order. We have that obligation and we are working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u98	That's a pretty long answer, longer than yes or no. I have the report in my hands. That's not because I looked at the page numbering or saw that a defence officer had to convert a document into a 1996 WordPerfect version later into a Word document. I have taken it up for a moment because I said in my speech that I find it rather odd that a report which had to be prepared as a result of a large number of incidents is now being brought as a matter of course. Such as: this is how we initiate our regular processes. The Secretary of State also said, I think, that there was no direct cause. Now the report begins with a trigger, which talks about an incident where a person has been apprehended as a suspect. It literally says that this event was a next one in a long list of occurrence reports. I said that I welcome the fact that the investigation has taken place, that conclusions have been drawn and that these conclusions are being followed up. But surely it's not the case that these kinds of investigations are the way in which the DOD is putting its trials in order? Of course there was something going on here. That was worrying. That's what the Secretary of State just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u99	Yeah, but this is exactly how it goes. You want people to report cases. If there's more than one report, there's got to be an investigation. That's exactly what happened here and that's how I explained it. You want to know if something is incidental or structural. It can always be incidental. 56,000 people work there. Where people work, mistakes are made. We're not perfect. The reason for the report was that it was said: it is not the first time we have received this report, so probably there is something structural going on; we are going to investigate that. Now it also turns out that something structural is going on. You're asking if this is a common case. Yeah, this is a common case. That's what I'm trying to tell you. We get about 5,000 reports of incidents a year. Those could be things that went wrong, things that almost went wrong or things that people think: I'm not quite sure but it just doesn't feel right, so I'll call it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u100	I understand that, although I think that's something other than these kinds of investigations. My second question concerns the cultural aspect to which the Secretary of State referred a few times. I listened carefully: every time she did, it was about the man or woman who eventually puts the deodorant in his or her backpack. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State about the culture of the organisation in which people have to do their work and where these things happen. The report talks about insufficient awareness in senior management and lack of training and so on. Each individual has his or her own responsibility, especially when it comes to the safety of himself and others. In this respect, however, please say something about the responsibility and the cultural aspect of the Defence Organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u101	That is also what we started with when it came to the Van der Veer Committee and our reaction to it. We said it starts with us, at the top. So it begins with the Minister and myself, with the Commander of the Armed Forces, with the Secretary-General and with everything underneath. We are responsible and we are accountable. I didn't mean to suggest that it was ultimately up to that Marine, but I tried to include you in an example of a report and where it could go wrong. That has nothing to do with people knowingly doing something wrong. That's just that you take your backpack, put something in it and don't think about it. What matters is that you make people aware, but it starts with us. This is also why, following the report of the Van der Veer Committee, we have said that we start every day with the issue of security. And we will. Any consultations within Defense that I hold, that keep the minister, that hold the CDS and that keep all commanders begins with the subject of security. We're shutting things down. I mentioned the maintenance workshop in Leusden as an example. The commander was worried about the fire safety system there. That's just stopped. As you know, we are active in Lithuania. We had concerns about the way the exercises were performed there and whether the safety checks were actually there enough. We wanted to apply Dutch standards there. So we just didn't practice there for two weeks because we were worried. That's what I mean by the can-domeality. Previously we went on, because we thought: there just needs to be practice. That's the "can do" because you want to realize things with each other. We said "can do" is fine, but if you're not sure if it's safe, you just have to stop. You just need to make sure it's safe. You'll do a check. If it turns out it's safe, you move on. If you're not, you stop. I will continue to mention such examples in this Chamber, because this is exactly the culture I want. I want these kinds of examples to be put as standard of what we expect of people: that you don't go on, but that you stop if you think it can't be safe anymore. Then there is Mrs Arissen, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I really need to get used to her name. I have already dealt with some of the main points about whether everything has been resolved. No. The security officers are there, but after this six months we have seen that more time is needed in more positions. We're settling that now. Then the training: some of the people have been trained, but some of them have not yet. It is further prioritised, and it is being addressed. Another aspect is the communication strategy. A safety management system is currently being set up within the Air Force. An essential part of this system is communication, education and promotion. It will also cover the transport of dangerous substances, as well as campaigns. We will take this wider within the Defense Department in response to the Plan of Action Security. We're trying to take as much as we can into that spectrum. This is also addressed in the Security Committees, both at the main level as regards all military components and supporting Defence components, as well as within Defence components themselves, following the approach plan Security. But we're not there yet. This in answer to the question, also from Mr Kerstens: are you here, yes or no? Then there is the question of the improvement measure and whether there has been any waiting. I answered that: no. We've done a number of things pending the investigation. This has to do with the scanner and the staff we have trained and the fact that today, also in the context of this research, we are looking at dangerous substances in the field of specialist knowledge on transport before we decide on the mission deployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u102	The Secretary of State states that some of the recommendations are still in progress. But if you have those Military Aviation Requirements, on the basis of which you get a permit, you're gonna have to meet all of them, right? Actually, exactly what you just said: if it doesn't work out, then you stop until it's in order and then you get back to work. What is the situation here, if not all the recommendations have been taken over and so they do not meet these requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u103	We ensure that dangerous substances are subject to risk analysis in the case of transport. If then it turns out that it is also required to apply for exemption from the MLA, then so is it. In this sense, we implement the laws and regulations. It's certified, too. I have also tried to point out that we do not have everything in order, but that does not mean that transport itself is not, by definition, safe. A risk analysis is therefore carried out in advance. They're looking at that, too. I have already indicated that, for example, the scanner is in Eindhoven. That's where everything's actually filtered out. The concern is mainly in the mission areas, to get it in order. That is where the human aspect is essential. That's why you need those security advisors and those trainings. But it's not like we just transport ins Blaue hinein dangerous substances. That's just what laws and regulations we have to comply with, what the MLA is testing us on and calling us on if we don't have it in order. We must then take concrete measures, because otherwise we will not be able to go into the air. Then I would like to continue with Mrs Belhaj's question, but also by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, on certification. You mentioned the year 2007 and asked if Eindhoven now meets the requirements. Yes, Eindhoven Airport is now certified and meets the aviation requirements. This means that there is a system that monitors and complies with the laws and regulations, and that the risks have been identified and addressed and that is also certified. Certification did not take place in 2007. That is a valid point. That has happened in recent years. Certification should take place in a number of sub-areas. The aircraft maintenance took place in 2010, the airport service in 2014, the flight operating training and licensing in 2015, and the training organisation and air traffic control in 2017. Indeed, it was delivered later than initially promised, but now the Eindhoven airport meets the certification requirements that are required.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u104	But then the same question actually applies to the Secretary of State. I'm trying to understand. So you have to live up to things. So you get a permit for that. That'll be tested. Then I think: if you didn't meet in the meantime, how could such a permit actually have been issued? How, then, could one have just gone to work in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u105	This certification will cover a number of sub-areas. There are agreements made with the supervisor about how you handle that and whether you do that. That happened here in Eindhoven. That should have happened sooner. It was promised to do so in 2007. That took much longer, because it took much more to achieve that, but that is done in consultation with the supervisor. A plan of action is drawn up and the way it is done is explained. Certification just takes a while. As you have heard in my survey, this has taken several years by different sub-areas. For a number of airports, such as those in Eindhoven, we have done so. We are still working on this for a number of airports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u106	That sounds kind of scary to me. So you have an authority that has to issue a permit, but it's the same authority that you go into consultation with when you say: we're not really up to date, but we'd like to fly ahead and do our work. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether it is a desirable situation at all to keep that certification with the Military Aviation Authority if that is the same body that supervises and with which you together draw up a plan of action that can and therefore does not require any rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u107	There's a need for rules. This isn't a permit either. It's a certification. That's something else. Secondly, I can tell Mrs Belhaj that this is how we work with every supervisor, including outside the Ministry of Defence. The ILT is exactly the same. You were able to read something about the NVWA today. That's where a supervisor finds out something. He says, "This is wrong." Then you have to demonstrate what you can do and how you are going to do on the basis of a plan of approach. Then a supervisor says: we think that is quite right, because we see that you are taking steps. Or a supervisor says stop, no, we don't do this anymore. On every file we do so in this way. That has nothing to do with the MLA in this case, but simply with how we arranged this with each other in the Netherlands, whether it is the Inspection SZW, the ILT, the NVWA or the MLA or another internal supervisor. Because things are going wrong. Then, as an instance, you have to show that you're doing everything you can to get things in order and what you're doing and, if you didn't do it in time, why not? There may be very good reasons for that, but you have to back that up, is my experience. I myself have had the experience around the ammunition depots, which Mr Van Dijk has also asked questions about. That's exactly the same aspect. We are now talking to the inspections to make sure that we can get this right in two years' time. It's not in order right now. So we have to work on that. We're in agreement with the inspections to see how they're gonna get that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u108	Of course, we're not just talking about the deodorant someone's taking. It's about military. I think that's a little different from random things. It's about dangerous substances. They can do enormous damage. We are not talking here about the association of playgrounds, although dangerous things can happen there, but of a different order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u109	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u110	I would therefore like to ask again, given the state of the defence, in view of this dossier, whether it is not wise to see if another body can carry out an additional audit, because it is a crazy construction that an authority that approves the requirements called it not a licence at the same time is the one you spart with and to which you say: we are working on it and it looks like this. Perhaps you shouldn't want to do that yourself. Don't you have the need and willingness, given the fact that we're talking about the Defense Department, to have it audited again somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u111	If I've raised the suggestion that we're "sparring" with supervisors, let's be clear: we're not doing that. We are simply fined and periodic penalty payments are simply imposed. DOD just gets it over his head when it's not in order. The same applies to this dossier. I have tried to indicate that you can see that something is not in order, but that a supervisor then wants you to show that you're going to fix it. Let me give you another example: ammunition depots. Supervisors also understand that if you are dealing with 100-year-old buildings, it will take time, also in the context of security, before you move the ammunition and before you incorporate the latest building requirement. The ILT and the Inspection SZW understand that. That's the story that you have to put together a plan of action to show how you're going to do it. The inspection isn't nice to the DOD at all, I can tell you. The inspection simply says: "This is going too slowly; can't you do this faster? We are concerned about this; how will you do it?" The same applies to the MLA. I think it is important to note that the Air Force is taking this seriously, since it is now constantly auditing itself. For that reason, I was able to report that the case is not yet in order. We know this because the Air Force has also carried out an audit on this issue in recent years, to check whether it is in order. Then it was possible to adjust again, I mention the example of the safety advisors, to make sure that it gets right. I do not want me, or my successor, to be back here in some time to tell the Chamber that we promised earlier that the certification would be in order in 2017, but that it did not succeed. That's exactly what we want to get rid of. If there is a commitment on the part of the Defense Department regarding the capacity that is necessary and what is necessary for this, then we must also respect it. And if that's not possible, we should tell the Chamber. We are currently in the middle of that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u112	I hear the Secretary of State say that we use civil certification for the transport of dangerous substances by road. Is this certification a Dutch wish or a European wish? I'm looking for the benchmark. How is the Dutch Defence Department doing in relation to the countries around us? Now the idea is raised that we have a back-up military force through certification, but I want to compare it with the armed forces around us. How do they certify? Can we benchmark that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u113	I don't have an overview of that, but I think it's a fair question. We can figure this out. I shall perhaps come back to that in another debate. For road transport, we apply civil standards. Those are really stricter standards. There are no exemptions. The MLA provides an assessment of military airports. The MLA shall carry out a risk assessment. I put this question to the MLA and it says: we do not know how other countries are doing it, but we do not think that is so relevant; it is about finding it safe. That's the consideration the MLA makes. It makes a different risk weighting on a number of points. That has to do with the Hercules disaster. For example, the requirement is that ammunition and passengers should not be transported together. Is that a stricter requirement than that in the rest of the world? That is probably a specific Dutch requirement, but that is also very clear and I think that is also desirable. That is how the MLA looks at it, precisely because we have had an accident, a very sad accident, and have learnt lessons from it. We look at how things relate to other armed forces, but from its own point of view the MLA simply says: it does not really matter to me; I am responsible for safety in the air and I make my own risk weighting; I am concerned about Dutch standards and what other military parts do, I do not really find that interesting. That is also the role of a supervisor, which we are simply dealing with. That's why I said there's not much room in it if we wanted anything else. I believe I have answered the questions about what we have done with the recommendations, including what has happened with the annexes and the misunderstanding about them. Mrs Belhaj's question is whether we want to prevent this from happening in future. Yes, I do not want to have another such debate on Appendix A, B or C. But I hope it is understood that we did not intend to send a number of things to the Chamber. I have also said that if the Chamber has questions about the annexes, they can of course be asked. That offer still stands. Mr Van Dijk has asked if people in the Defense Department can report incidents freely. Yes. I have said that we are currently examining how to organise this even better. On the one hand, by making the system easier when it comes to reporting incidents. We also discussed this yesterday in the legislative consultation. On the other hand, we have instructed the Giebels Committee to consider in a broad sense how we can increase the willingness to report. Asked why a year has been waiting for an investigation. I think I have answered that now. The investigation started immediately, but it took a year. In the meantime, measures have been taken. Then there is Mrs Diks' question as to whether there was any insight into the composition of the visitation committee and the reporting. We are now in the process of filling that in, including the composition of the group itself. We try to keep that limited: about three people with different specializations. It's just that we need to get to these people, too. But I'm going to inform you about this with the Minister before the summer, as well as about the mission that the Visitation Commission will be given and the manner of reporting to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Belhaj asked for the audit. It took place, and I indicated what had come out of it. We will continue to do so. The Air Force also continues to do so itself, and the MLA regularly conducts follow-up audits as a supervisor itself. They do that about once every two years. I don't know when Eindhoven's turn will be from the MLA angle, but we do our own internal audits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u114	If the MLA, the external organization, does such an audit, is the Secretary of State prepared to share it with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u115	Then you actually come to the question of whether I want to share all the investigations of all the supervisors. No. We've got 5,000 of these reports, and maybe we're investigating those that have nothing to do with the reports. As I said, and I think that is important, I am prepared to answer if you ask me about: what do you see now, what trends, what are the lessons learned, and how will you monitor them? But I also have inspection investigations from the Inspection SZW, the ILT, and numerous other investigations. That's exactly what I'm supposed to do as an employer to do my job. I'll inform you about the lessons learned. But to send you every supervisory report from every supervisor, I'm a little out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u116	That wasn't my question. You indicated that internal audits are carried out specifically on this file, and also an audit by MLA once every two years. That's what I'm specifically concerned about. It doesn't reassure me if you say yes, but there are 5,000 reports a year. Yeah, what do you care about; every call is one. That's what I'm really worried about. Although there are between 5,000 and 10 that have negative consequences, the Chamber will soon think: we have all been there, we have asked the Secretary of State and then we thought it would be okay. So I also hope you understand, now that this report happens to be a little bigger than an incident and a small report, that I ask you, when an audit is done, to simply share it with the Chamber again. Then we can see that everything is going great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u117	Let me be clear: I did not mean to trivialize the fact that 5,000 reports are being made. In yesterday's WHO, when it came to staffing, I said myself: I think security is one of our most important priorities. I think I have said this in every debate I have had so far. I would also like to report on this to the Chamber with indicators, precisely to give you an insight into where we stand. So if the suggestion has been raised that I'm trivializing security, no way. It is the most important priority we have in the coming period. Here's what I'm trying to say. You ask me the question: is it in order now? No. Is it gonna be okay in a year? No, I can't tell you that. I can tell you we're monitoring it. I don't know what the MLA is going to audit for, because the supervisor is doing his own research. I don't know if he's going to audit specifically on this part. I know I'll have an audit done myself through the Air Force. You asked what exactly the MLA is going to audit. I don't know. It is also really up to the MLA to look at this, also in the context of the risk-based approach they need to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u118	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u119	One last try. If the MLA decides to conduct an audit that results in information directly related to the internal investigation that we are discussing today, are you prepared to inform the Chamber about that audit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u120	If any information comes out that is relevant to the Chamber as a result of commitments we have made, I will, of course, inform the Chamber about them. But your question was if you could get the audit reports. I said no, because I think that's what the DOD's internals are about. But that goes for every investigative report from every supervisor, because we have quite a few. I'd have to send all kinds of reports all the time. It's meant to get the DOD to work on improving it. But I also think that people from the MLA have listened to it and that your desire to investigate it again has been understood. At least I can't investigate that myself. She has to make that assessment herself. If any information comes out that's relevant, I'll report it to the Chamber. I confirm that once again to Mrs Belhaj. Because that is also important, as you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u121	Is it possible for the Secretary of State to conclude?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u122	Yes. I had three more leaves. I'm just gonna see which questions are still on there. I think I have answered all the questions, including all the interruptions and the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u123	Beautiful. It's got all kinds of people on it. Do they want to make any interruptions? It's a little slow today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u124	I think the Secretary of State has tried very hard to answer all the questions, but at least there is one left of me. Has this situation just been found in the air force? And what about the other armies? Has that been investigated, too? If so, what are the conclusions of this and what have the resulting actions been?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u125	Yes, I did have it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mrs Diks, do you have a question on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u127	Yeah, exactly. That's why I thought maybe it'd be useful if I hooked up right away. I also asked: would it be wise to consider whether dangerous substances should also be assigned to the sea forces and the land forces?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u128	Very good. Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u129	It's true that I hadn't answered that question yet. This specific research has focused only on the Air Force. The lessons learned are now also shared with the other armies. They are wider than just the transport of dangerous substances by air. We have arranged for at least a scanner at Eindhoven Airport and staff to be trained and able to do so. There must also be an additional campaign for Defence Breed to make employees aware of the transport of dangerous substances, even if that goes into the air. Mrs Diks' question on dangerous substances is therefore broader. We are also going to have a debate on chromium-6 and the like. That's where this belongs, too. We are also putting additional actions on those safety advisers and safety officers when it comes to transport but also the use of dangerous substances. That is a force-breed, because that must also be further put in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u130	I understand that the Secretary of State says that the conclusions of this report, the lessons learned, have been shared with the other armies. But she doesn't really see how things are going with the sense of safety surrounding the transport of dangerous substances. Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u131	I have an idea of that, because we know from other audits that there is still work to be done. I have indicated that capacity is one of the problems. We've had a Committee on Dangerous Substances in the Defense Department for some time now. We know that this will require more capacity. That is why we have made 75 million available in the Safety Plan and 25 million structuralally, namely to recruit additional people to put this in order. So I have an image and I know it's not in order yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u132	Does the Secretary of State say that with the other military components that lessons learned I will let that term be used as quickly as in the air force?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u133	It's gonna take more than that. We do two things. The mission area is essential. This means that in the preparation of a mission here in the Netherlands, extra attention will be paid to the transport of dangerous substances. They're looking at that, too. If you ask me if that is completely in order, the answer is no. After all, we are still getting reports that it is not yet in order. That is precisely why additional action is still needed. If the question is whether this should be extended to the other armies, the answer is yes. On the question of whether I am entirely confident that it is in order, the answer is no. That also has to do with capacity. That is why we have said that we need more capacity. People also need to be trained and we also need to prioritise by indicating what is most urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mrs Diks, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u135	Yeah, just a quick question about this. I appreciate that you are doing everything you can to get this done as quickly and as well as possible. Of course, I am a little shocked when you say that we cannot do as much as we would like, because we actually have too few people to do the job. I think that's a really big point. I would like to know from you when you can give the Chamber an overview of the measures you are going to take, about the entire military force, and when we can see that it is more for each other than today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u136	This is part of the Plan of Action Security in a broader sense. We have to observe with each other that it is all to be explained that choices have been made about Defence over the past 25 years. The choice has always been made that cuts should be as low as possible to the detriment of operational commitment. We can see that now. We'll see that in the real estate portfolio. That's what we talked about yesterday. It was very consciously chosen to allow a low level of maintenance. That's what's paying out now; you're paying the bill double and cross. This also applies, for example, to support services, including, for example, security officers. So we need to train these people. Yesterday we had the example of the ammunition engineers. Before I fully trained someone as an ammo technician, I'm just two years away. The same applies to the security officers. A number of things they can do, if they have been adopted, immediately the next day. They can take a number of measures and do a number of investigations, but they can't do a number of things either. I propose that, within the framework of the Safety Action Plan, we provide you with an insight into the priorities for dealing with certain risks. You can ask me to give you an insight into the greatest risks and also to indicate how we are going to deal with them, what is needed for them and what steps we are going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u137	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u138	We will send the clarification of the Safety Plan to the Chamber before the summer. That's what you asked. I have such a feeling that we may be going to look at the clerk, too, once in a while about safety. It could just happen. I think that we can then discuss this with another AO, for example on safety, on the basis of a progress report. That would be my proposal: that, following an approach plan, we make a progress report, in which we take you into account in the approach and progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u139	You say, "For the summer." It's now 12.08 p.m. and the summer starts at 12.07 p.m. That was one minute ago, so you're already late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u140	For the summer recess of the Chamber, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u141	Okay. Yeah, we need to stay a little sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u142	There was one more question I left open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u143	Yes. We also had this discussion in the general discussion on security. I think Mr Bosman is right to make a point. That is also the balance that we must seek. You want people to report a lot of things on the one hand. That's something you want to be able to research carefully. That means you want as much information as possible. But if people know that things are going public, then something else could happen. Then there could be a reluctance to report things. We have also said in response to that call in the general consultation on security that we are going to look into it and that we will come up with a proposal after the summer recess, Mr President. You yourself mentioned the example of the OVV, in which the OVV says to everyone who participates in the research: this is a learning research, so you can't incriminate yourself, so to speak. The investigation of the OVV is not used in a criminal investigation. That's what you're looking for: how do you take care of those people who are just of good will? That is what I am saying to Mrs Belhaj, because you had a debate on this. In my opinion, you were indeed in agreement, in the sense that you want people to expose things and that you are trying to get the things that go wrong up and learn something from them. So after the summer recess, we will come up with a proposal on safeguard, so to speak, when it comes to learning research. That's different from investigating for dismissal or a criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u144	Very good. So much for the first term. Is there a need for a second term? At least that is the case with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion. I would, of course, like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'm not quite sure about everything yet. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas security culture and self-learning capacity within the Defence Department still need to be improved;]] [[noting that the internal investigation identified five shortcomings and produced six recommendations;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State admits that "not everything is in order" and implementation is still in full swing;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an independent and external audit on the progress of the implementation of all the recommendations contained in the Internal Research Report "Applications during the Transport of Dangerous Substances," including research into the certification according to MAR-OPS, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u146	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u147	Mr Van Dijk waives his second term. Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a piece of paper with me, but there's no motion on it. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. Although, of course, I think, as I have just changed, that every man and woman ultimately has a great responsibility for their own security and security, I would like to point out once again that the culture of defence is primarily a thing of the organisation and thus of the Defence Summit. I would like to suggest to the Secretary of State that he should at some point just name it unsolicited, although sometimes it is in conjunction with an example of an individual man or woman. I'm shocked, and I don't think I'm alone, about the investigation and its results. I have heard the Secretary of State say many times that the matter is not yet in order. It's being worked hard, but it's not in order yet. I follow it with great interest, of course, and I conclude from that that it is not always about aftershaves and deodorants in backpacks, but that there may still be dangerous situations. They'll always show up. But if, among other things, they can be avoided by taking a firmer approach to culture, I think that we should all do that. That is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u149	Thank you. Mrs. Diks? Mrs Belhaj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mr. Chairman. If I had to define some sort of red line in this debate, it is about the following: trust is good, but control is better. If confidence is violated, I think there is always an extra need for extra control until it is in order. I understand the Secretary of State's commitment, but I also hope that the Secretary of State understands that this is, of course, very strange for a lot of people. You say: if you want to do this kind of transport, there are agreements about the rules you all have to comply with. It didn't turn out to be. We have also taken years to implement it, but with exemptions, so that the work could continue. Then we're told that these improvements are something you do all the time. People need to learn things. But it's about something. It is about the transport of dangerous substances. So I think that's kind of complicated. I still think the option of an extra audit is very good. It must then be explicitly shared with the Chamber, even if it is only for what I started with, namely that trust is good, but sometimes control is better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u151	Thank you. The last speaker is Mr Bosman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u152	Mr. Chairman. Safety is about something. It's about the security of men and women in the military, in the Defense Department. We ask them to do important things. It is good to see in this report, an internal report, I repeat that once again we are trying to improve the situation, to make it safer for all those men and women in that organisation. And here you see the problem that an internal report is used for an external story. The core of my concern is: if you translate this kind of thing directly, one-on-one, into a public report, it will cause problems, concerns and discussion. In fact, you should translate these kinds of reports into a report that could be public. Actually, the essence of my argument is that you have to protect what you can't make public. Make that legally protected, so that you can have the information available in all due care and share the knowledge of it. Then everyone in the organisation can learn from it and thus the organisation gets better. This is unrelated to the fact that anyone who deserves punishment can also be punished by the Public Prosecutor's Office, by military disciplinary law, by the commander or by anyone who is competent to do so. But that's separate from the security investigation. I wish the Secretary of State every success with the future and the safety of the organisation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you. So much for the second term of office. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u154	Mr. Chairman. I believe that the cultural aspect mentioned by Mr Kerstens is not just a matter of the military self. It's ours. It starts at the top. We need to put in place the right framework conditions to ensure that it is done as safely as possible and that no irresponsible risks are taken. That's exactly why we started with that whole Safety Approach Plan. I also think I should be real by taking you where we are. A number of things are just not in order. This is being pushed hard, also by the organisation itself. I just see that all commanders are very aware of their role as employers. Because we work with a line organization in which the decentralised commanders simply have to provide a safe environment in the workshop or the barracks. They're aware of that. They can only do this in a good way if they are supported in it. We need to put in place a number of framework conditions for this. These relate to capacity for, for example, the integrity organisation and the organisation that assesses the hazardous substances. But it's also about our real estate, for example. I also mentioned yesterday the example of the internet on the alloy. That is one of the issues that is important in the context of social security. That's all things we're working on right now. That's what I've been trying to give, not to trivialize security, but to indicate that this requires a great deal from the organization, from our people, from all of us. I fully agree with Mr Kerstens: we are obliged to do so. So let there be no misunderstanding about that either. Another reaction to Mrs Belhaj. I agree with her: it is a matter of ensuring that things are sorted out from within culture. Of course, we have to check it out. That's how we named it in the Plan of Action Security. That's why we've also set up a new Security Directorate. We've also appointed an Inspector General of Security. He gets exactly the responsibility you're asking for. He is a member of the inspection service, which has the same system of government. In that sense, he is independent of the Defense Department. He's also not in the building here on the Square, just to make sure that all matters that take place within the Defense Department can be inspected. The IGV, the Inspector General of Security, has been appointed. People are also being recruited at the moment. On September 1st, he goes operational, then starts the actual investigation. So if your question is to see if this is one of the topics that I consider to be a matter that can be taken directly by the Inspector General Security and his team to do further research and to inform you about it, I am happy to do so. But if your question is, I shall also come to Mrs Arissen's motion on item No. 129 In addition to another external audit, in addition to that of the Inspector General Security, I advise against the motion. There's a plan of action, security. Mrs Belhaj has also called for another to be guaranteed, so that one should not only rely on one's blue, brown or green eyes, but also independently check the plans and improvement measures that have been announced. That's the role of the Inspector General of Security. So we've appointed him. He is now recruiting people and will start his studies on 1 September of this year. This will then be one of the subjects. Mr. Chairman. This also gives me an opinion on the motion. I do not know how Mrs Arissen interprets the motion. If she means the IGI, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. If it's another party, I'm gonna dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u155	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. The tension is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u156	I'm gonna think about it for a second. I'll get back to you. I'll let you know if I change the motion or if I hold her. I'll let you know what I'll do with it. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u157	Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to record that I'm deceiving the motion as it now stands. Maybe that's just as good for the Minutes. I shall then await a motion by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, which may have been amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u158	Very good. So much for this debate. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-4.u159	We shall vote on this motion on Tuesday. We'll hear how the petitioner himself is going to interpret her. I shall suspend until 1.10 p.m. before lunch and then we shall begin the work.
