ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u1	The next item is the debate on Dutch engagement in Afghanistan. Tonight is the final part of the debate in one term. I welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u2	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, Dutch soldiers have contributed to a safer Afghanistan, in our interest, to protect us from international terrorism in the Netherlands, through the deployment of commands during Enduring Freedom, F-16's above and an armoredhouwitser towards Chora, infantry in Uruzgan and police trainers in Kunduz. And now, during the NATO Resolute Support mission, our goal is to achieve to a large extent the Taliban underneath and Al-Qaeda out. Afghanistan is no longer a base for global terror and it is much better off than it was in 2001. Afghan forces have made enormous progress, but are simply not yet able to guarantee the security situation on their own at an acceptable level. There is now a clear Afghanistan strategy, based on the right observation that we cannot abandon Afghanistan. It is a place where we act with allies to maintain stability, to enable a country that clearly wants to do so, to stand on its own feet now. The cabinet has removed our concerns about air support, medical disposal and the consequences for basic readiness in the briefing, a 17-page letter, a slide deck, a small 200 questions and a four-hour first term. The stakes are accounted for. That does not stand in the way of our goal of getting the basic readiness of the armed forces in order in 2021. That was the clear statement of the Secretary of Defense. However, a concern which has not yet been fully addressed concerns men and women who have to work. Are we honest about and to our military? The aim is not to make Afghanistan democratic, but to make Afghanistan safer. Too often, The Hague has left soldiers in a state of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u3	In connection with unrest in the public gallery, I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u4	Let's move on to the debate. I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So our military brings security and sometimes fights in the highest spectrum of violence. We have to be honest about that. We also need to be clear about the way we look at such a mission. We have a good framework for that. I welcome the agreements that we have been able to make with the cabinet on this matter. Mr. Chairman. It was my message in the first term. The real work will now have to be done by 160 men and women. They will often do important work in very difficult circumstances. Important work, in the interest of the Netherlands. The group of the VVD can therefore agree with the new Dutch contribution to the NATO Resolute Support mission. We're proud of all those soldiers, of their contribution. We are convinced that they can also do this job. We wish our men and women every success and a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u6	I know that the VVD and Mr Han ten Broeke are keen to support almost everything or all missions, but does Mr Ten Broeke think that a mission should also have support in the Chamber and support in society? We have just seen that the support base in society is becoming less and less and less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u7	What's the question, Mr Öztürk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u8	My question to Mr Han ten Broeke is as follows. Do you think that you should still choose to do this at the moment when the support is less?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u9	The support in society, as it turned out during the last fifteen years in which we have done missions, was often much greater than was suspected in The Hague. When there was a soothing and cloaking talk about a "building mission" and it turned out to be a tough fight mission, not so illogical given the fact that we had a battalion there and a hard blow to Chora, when 24 Dutch and eventually a surgeon died, the Dutch people turned out to be able to deal with it. Maybe it's better than we thought. Support for missions and support for military personnel is also increasing. We saw that last Saturday on Veterans Day. I am very pleased and very pleased that the protection of the international legal order we have in the Constitution, which is quite unique, and that what we share with NATO partners, namely Article 5, are reflected in Afghanistan. I also know that the support of Dutch society is very good for this. I heard you ask that question earlier in your first term. I'll send you a little chart later. This is also being investigated, Mr Öztürk, and that investigation proves that you are simply wrong. Since 2010, this research has been carried out very consistently, and it turns out that the figures are wrong to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u10	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u11	I can imagine that there is a great deal of support on the Veterans' Day. However, we do see a decline in support in the Chamber and in society. That's because a lot of people see that not bringing peace and security, but other interests is the motive of a number of countries. Do you also take into account that the dirty war strategy of large countries is crumbling and that we are still supporting something which has little support in Dutch society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u12	In the first period, we have given a rather detailed consideration to whether progress has been made or not in the last seventeen years, if you look at it correctly, it is fifteen years in which the Netherlands has also contributed, together with 39 other countries now. At the height there have been almost 60. I think it's progress at a time when a country under the Taliban could only let 900,000 boys go to school. Those weren't real schools: those were Afghan versions of a madrassa, and that 9 million children are now going to school. That's a tenfold increase, Mr. Öztürk. Of those, 37% are girls. There were 500 first aid posts with barely any bandages. Now there are 2,500 health centers. When it comes to child mortality, Afghanistan was under the Taliban in place 200 and now it's 70. The electricity reached 1% of the population and now 43%. There were zero parliamentarians and now 27% of parliamentarians are women. Well, Mr. Chairman, that must have come out of your heart too. We have also contributed to these matters. But I am most proud of our soldiers, who have made a great contribution to increased security in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u13	This is a plenary session. I understand that there has been a general consultation of about five hours. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u14	Then back to the core of the mission, on which Mr Ten Broeke is indeed honest, unlike many others. The goal is more security, less terrorism and less migration. The result is exactly the opposite. Then why does the VVD Group support this permanent war, which brings us not less but more terrorism, does not bring us less but more refugees and does not bring us more but less security?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u15	I think I will do you a favor, too, if I try to answer this question very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u16	Shortly, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u17	In 2001, the Taliban had 100% 100% control! Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of There was a base with several training camps for terror, which hit the West in the heart with the attacks on 9/11. Again, 100% of the territory. At present, the Taliban only controls 4% of its territory. Indeed, in an x-number of districts I have mentioned them, there are eleven or so I think fighting and talking to the Afghan government, but that is quite common. That's Afghanistan. I've been an honest one about that since day one. And thank you for your compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u18	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u19	I note that Mr Ten Broeke ignores the fact that this permanent war has brought more terrorism, more insecurity and more refugees, contrary to all the promises made by this cabinet and the VVD to the Dutch people and to the Afghans. That is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u20	This is an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u21	I also note that the VVD gives carte blanche for perhaps another twenty years of war in Afghanistan, with zero results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u22	That's not a question. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u23	I hear Mr Ten Broeke mention a lot of figures. I also have three figures for Mr Ten Broeke and I would like him to respond. According to UNICEF, in a June 2018 report, the number of children who do not attend school has not been that high since 2002. Then a news item of April 30, 2018: a prominent Afghan photographer has been murdered. He reported from 1998 on the Taliban and Afghanistan, and he...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u24	Ma'am, I have to interrupt you. An interruption is really a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u25	Then I'll go on to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u26	...to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u27	What does Mr Ten Broeke think about 21 journalists being murdered in 2017 and 169 being abused or threatened? Those are numbers, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u28	If a colleague asks such a question, I would almost say: what kind of answer does she think she can expect here? Does she think I could agree to that? Or that I'd like that? No, of course not! I feel the same way about that as, I hope, everyone here: I find that horrible. However, I note that in the year you mentioned, 2017, the number of civilian casualties has decreased by almost 27% compared to the years before, and then again by 9%. We can beat each other up endlessly with numbers, but the difference is next. My party has been clear about what this mission was, what its purpose was and what it had to be. And it still is: the Taliban underneath and Al-Qaeda out. Al-Qaeda is largely out and no longer plays a significant role, as was the case in 2001. And with the Taliban, it's evil cherry food, but it's spoken to. Once in a while, a peace deal is also made, but then there is another war. That's Afghanistan. That is the reality of Afghanistan. What many parties, including yours, are trying to do here is to impose a Dutch reality, a European reality, on a country which was very backward and which unfortunately 15 and 17 years ago was able to touch us in the heart. That country is no longer capable of doing so. That's what we were there for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u29	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u30	The Afghan reality is that there is no more security; it has become more unsafe and more civilian casualties have occurred. It's not gonna be safer. There are more than 20 terrorist groups and the Taliban have a big finger in the mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u31	I don't quite understand the desire for 2001. That was a situation in which everyone was suffering badly, not only in Afghanistan itself, but also in the rest of the world. The latter is no longer the case and the first is rapidly changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u33	Mr. Chairman. Politics doesn't put military forces in a war until nothing else is possible. Politically, it decides to send people out when there is a political will and a solution. The government's decision to send 60 more commandos alongside the 100 soldiers already in Afghanistan will not bring this solution. For 17 years, NATO and the United States have been at war in Afghanistan, promising to defeat terrorism and bring security and a little bit of democracy. That's what billions of dollars are invested in. There's been an investment in the security device. Millions have been invested in the war against terrorism and the result is that our world is becoming more unsafe. The war in Afghanistan has produced not less, but more terrorism. The war in Afghanistan has brought Afghans no more, but less security. The war in Afghanistan, contrary to what the Minister claims, has brought not less but more refugees. War, a permanent war, or a war of perhaps twenty years, is not a solution. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw its decision in Afghanistan in accordance with Article 100 of the Constitution on a military mission until 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-634]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u34	Mr. Chairman. The fact that the SP does not support sending 160 soldiers to Afghanistan does not, of course, prevent us from wishing them a safe return and the family very much strength. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make one appeal to our rulers. Be honest now, look at the results of the war on terror since 2001. In Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, that war has created chaos, a chaos in which terrorism and jihadists can thrive. I would like to say to Mr Ten Broeke that Al-Qaeda is not gone. The Taliban are still very strong. And you know what, Chairman? ISIS is also in Afghanistan. Stop this strategy, focus on diplomacy and support. Everyone in this Chamber knows that we cannot bring democracy to Afghanistan. We can only support the Afghans and prevent further civilian casualties and refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u35	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u36	Mr. Chairman. The Minister spoke passionately in general terms. In it he indicated that he was in Afghanistan a few years ago and that he was back recently. And he explained how much the situation had not improved in his eyes. There were now much fewer foreign soldiers. In Kabul, he saw families shopping everywhere. And with such examples, the picture was created that Afghanistan is doing a lot better. I have here a report showing that in November 2015, 72% of Afghanistan's districts were still under central government control, while two years later in October, only 56%. And the percentage of districts under the control of the insurgents had doubled during that period. In addition, there are a number of districts that have been disputed, and that has also increased. So that image that Afghanistan is doing a lot better is contradicted by these kinds of investigations. I think I should make that comment here. The report of the Overseas Development Institute published in June also explains, on the basis of a field study, that the Taliban has set up a kind of shadow system in large parts of Afghanistan. Although these parts are still formally under the control of the central government, in reality the Taliban has entered there everywhere in the public services, controls them or takes them fully over, simply collects the tax money, collects the electricity bills and so on. The image that the Taliban first conquers an area and then goes there, that is exactly the other way around. First they enter everywhere in the board and then they take over the area formally. I think it is a good thing that we are aware of this and that this positive picture of the Minister should be adjusted a little. Furthermore, I have found that when it comes to the Resolute Support mission in recent years, there is actually no measure to measure the effectiveness of that mission, of those trainings. The government cannot tell us how many of those trained soldiers in Resolute Support are still active in the Afghan armed forces. So we just don't know the effect. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. The idea that intensifying a Dutch military contribution and continuing the now established Afghanistan policy will make a useful contribution to a safe and stable Afghanistan does not appeal to the PVV. We do not think it is acceptable that Afghanistan's policy should be pushed into mourning. The 336 million euros that the government wants to spend on Afghanistan over the next three years can be better spent in the Netherlands and for the Dutch. The PVV does not support this mission, but we do wish all the soldiers who may have to go, success and a safe return. And of course we wish their relationships in the Netherlands much strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u37	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u38	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the three directors for their detailed answers, and also for the extensive preparation process that we have been able to go through with a hearing, a technical briefing, with many factual questions and ultimately the debate. This is highly appreciated, especially since the Dutch involvement in Afghanistan has been unlikely in recent years, in Baghlan, in Uruzgan, in Kunduz, in Mazar. In our presence, Afghanistan has come a long way, in the fields of education, health, democracy, the position of women. But are we there, Madam President? No, we're a long way from here, I'd like to say. There is still an unlikely amount of work to be done in the area of security, education, health, democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u39	Mr President, may I point out to Mr Sjoerdsma that this is a military mission? What does he think of the military results, namely: more insecurity, more terrorist groups, more refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u40	Yes, I'm aware this is a military mission. We have just had a wide-ranging debate on this. I will certainly come back to that. I will leave Mrs Karabulut's interruption for a moment, because I am almost coming to her question. What I wanted to say is that if you no longer need military missions in Afghanistan, we need a peace process that will ultimately enable development in security. The prerequisite for such a peace process and development is security, Mrs Karabulut. Without security, no peace process. Without security, no development. I would like to give everyone his reasonable doubts, his reasonable concerns and his reasonable dilemmas. That's what my group has. But when parties say "we only want development, and we can do so without military commitment," I say to them: had there been with me in Afghanistan in 2011 when six ophthalmologists were killed by the Taliban. That happened somewhere in the high mountains. What were those ophthalmologists gonna do? They just wanted to help the locals get rid of cataracts. Who killed them? By the Taliban. Had been with me when in northern Afghanistan, in Mazar-e-Sharif, where our soldiers are now going to work, UN personnel were decapitated. By who? By the Taliban. And do you know why that was, Mrs. Karabulut? That wasn't due to an excess of Western soldiers. That was due to a shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u41	I get tears in my eyes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u42	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u43	...I'd almost say. Only the fact is that more people have been killed, that even more children cannot go to school now, that girls are dying, partly because of Western bombs. That military presence an sich is a reason for terrorists to nest themselves. ISIS is new in Afghanistan. That military presence is an obstacle. Do you respond to that? I understand Mr Sjoerdsma's good intentions. But even if we wanted to, we cannot bomb Afghanistan into democracy. It just doesn't work that way. When will that insight come, after billions investing in this war, hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u44	We do not need to bomb Afghanistan into democracy either, because Afghanistan is fighting democracy. Every democratic centimetre by centimetre they have to fight to get to know democratic culture a little bit. For a country that is actually still in the Middle Ages, with kalashnikovs, where tribal society is dominant, that is an unlikely achievement. The fact that the country has a parliament at all, that the country can even hold elections in a way that we regard as somewhat free and relatively fair, is an unlikely achievement if you look at what the country looked like in 2001. If Mrs Karabulut wants to go back to 2001, back to the Taliban, back to women's oppression, back to a complete lack of democracy, then so be it, but that's her story. If you have any concerns about military deployment, I can imagine that I am your husband. I have those concerns too, but I have no sympathy for this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u45	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u46	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman. At the request of my group, but also at the request of other political groups, the cabinet has expressly confirmed this, and I would like to emphasise once again that this mission will not have any adverse consequences for the ambition to put the military forces in order by 2021. The cabinet has stressed that if necessary, the air support will either be present or the men and women will not leave the gates. It has emphasized that the medical facilities are in place. In that context, given our involvement, given the objective of this mission, D66 can agree to this mission. My group wishes all men and women not only a successful mission but also, above all, a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u47	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u48	Madam President. Over the last few hours, we have discussed intensively with three ministers and with each other the question of whether we can support the cabinet decision to send 60 additional soldiers to Afghanistan. This debate deals with the question of how much Dutch participation in the military mission can contribute to security and stability in Afghanistan. There will be all kinds of arguments about the table. Many of my colleagues are fully aware of this. The heavy cabinet delegation is also doing its best. Thank you for that. It is clear that leaving Afghanistan can have negative consequences. Clearly, the country cannot stand on its own two feet. For my group, however, the question remains whether at the moment 60 additional Dutch soldiers can make a substantial contribution to this. What is even more important is the question of whether this contribution is justified when we look at the overall situation of the armed forces. Several parties have deliberately and knowingly cut back on our armed forces for many years, with all the consequences. The Defence Note is also clear on this and indicates what efforts are needed to get the armed forces back in order. The report of the General Court speaks volumes. Missions are more than a sum of women and men who are deployed for them. In the Netherlands, too, there will be a lot of time and energy in controlling and guiding those missions. According to 50PLUS, this time and energy can also be used differently. My group understands the importance of a position for the Netherlands as a reliable NATO partner, but we should not continue to try to break iron with hands. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, we are making a little bit of progress when it comes to implementing the agreement on the 2% of GNP. As far as this mission is concerned, we say as 50PLUS with still some hesitation: not now and not for this mission. However, I would like to stress that our group very much appreciates what the women and men of the armed forces are doing and are going to do in the framework of foreign missions. We wish them... Sorry, it's really making me a little emotional. Because I always find this a very difficult time when we decide to send young people to such a mission area. That is why I wish them a great deal of strength, success and, above all, a safe return to their homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u49	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u50	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the three ministers for their clear answers during the general consultations we held earlier today. The SGP Group has expressed its support for the various goals of the Dutch contribution to Operation Resolute Support. It is good to help strengthen security, prevent regular migration and be a solidarity ally. The SGP adds that, where necessary and possible, attention should be paid to strengthening religious freedom in the country. Ministers also addressed our questions on effectiveness, security and capacity. The SGP is confident that extending and extending our contribution can effectively contribute to the goal of a strong Afghan security apparatus. While the worrying security situation is a risk, it also underlines that Afghanistan is not yet where it needs to be and that continued engagement is needed. It is precisely because of the relatively small scale intensification that our armed forces are able to cope with this commitment, taking into account the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors and the Research Council on Security. Mr. Chairman. In the run-up to this debate, I had one comment from General De Kruif. I paraphrase: "In Afghan culture, it's not about ratio, it's about honor. Status goes beyond logic. And if we abandon the Afghans now, we will meet them deep in their honor and create an enemy for life." The latter is very undesirable as far as the SGP Group is concerned. All things considered, the SGP Group can support the decision of the cabinet and we too are proud of the military. We therefore wish the government, the Defence Staff, our soldiers on the ground and also their home ground God's blessing for the safe and effective performance of their tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u51	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands benefits from world peace and that is why we have the responsibility to weigh up missions. We have done so in detail over the last period and also today. The Taliban left Afghanistan in ruins. Dancing, making music and kiting were forbidden. Cultural heritage was destroyed, women were stoned, millions of Afghans had fled and Al-Qaeda had a safe haven. The West intervened 17 years ago and progress is enormous. The number of school children has risen from 900,000, almost only boys, in 2001 to nearly 9 million in 2018, including many girls. Child mortality has been reduced to five years by 60% and the number of health centres operating has been almost fivefold. More than 55% of the Afghan population has access to clean drinking water. But, Mr President, progress is very fragile. Very vulnerable! The World Health Organization said it strikingly: we can only do our social work, that progress, if we have the security and security that soldiers can offer us. Afghanistan cannot yet stand on its own feet and the question we have to ask ourselves is: do we want to run away with our tails between our legs and let the Taliban and ISIS win, resulting in an exodus of millions of Afghans, or do we want to offer Afghanistan security, stability and development? That's the key question. Mr. Chairman. We had two more questions to the cabinet about the basic readiness of our army. That was very important for our group. And the cabinet has given a clear guarantee on that. It is not compromised by this mission or by the coherence of missions. We also had clear questions about the guarantee of air support. Our women and men are not allowed to leave the gate unless air support is guaranteed. And that, too, has been guaranteed by the Cabinet. Finally, Mr President. The CDA is positive about the extra effort to help the people who live there and to remove the breeding ground for terrorism, so that the many Afghans do not have to flee their own country. We wish our women and men every success and we thank them for their service to the homeland. And we also wish them a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u53	The CDA spokesperson, Mr Van Helvert, mentioned a number of positive points from the missions of the last seventeen years. I assume he is also very critical and knows how to mention a number of negative points, including for his own supporters. Can he also tell why it has not been possible in 17 years with so many countries and with so much power? Twenty different terrorist organisations are still active in Afghanistan!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u54	That's also the big problem. We are in a war situation with many terrorist groups. The most important thing is also the CDA that we could say with a snap of fingers: it is peace! That situation also describes everyone. Everyone says, "Watch out, it's unsafe out there." It's still unsafe and should we send our women and men there? But just because it's unsafe, we have to send our men and our women. If it was safe, the presence of our army was unnecessary. Like many others, the CDA Group has also expressed the wish to give priority to that social and diplomatic priority in order to ensure that people can go to school, that girls can go to school, that hospitals function and that there is drinking water for as many people as possible. Of course, that should be a priority. The round table clearly stated that this balance must be maintained, but it was also said that we can only find that balance if we have security and security, and that is why the military mission is very much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u55	Mr Van Helvert himself says: it is not safe in Afghanistan. I ask him, why is that? How is it that we've been sitting there for 17 years for billions with all those countries, and it's still not safe? What are we doing wrong? Dare to ask questions to the Minister himself on such critical points too! What are we doing wrong, which means that we now have to go back there for two or three years, for millions of euros, to supposedly bring security there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u56	Mr Van Helvert. Short response, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u57	That was also very clear in the technical briefing, but also in the round table. That's why we're fixing it now. 'Cause what's been said? Since NATO withdrew the ISAF combat mission, the Taliban have been back on the offensive and other groups have also been given room. A number of experts said in the round table: in retrospect, perhaps we should not have left it to Afghanistan itself so quickly. So we're gonna need more people. That's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u58	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers for answering the many questions in general that we had. In this general discussion, I actually raised two critical questions about the decision that is before us today, the extension and extension of the training mission in Afghanistan. The coherence of the approach within Afghanistan is the first point, and the relationship between this mission and what else we do about missions is the second. First of all, the coherence of the approach. The military training mission aimed at security and the fight against the Taliban must be embedded in an integrated approach, both instruments of development cooperation and a political strategy are necessary to enable any military effort of any size and nature to be effective at all. The political strategy is critical. The Foreign Minister has addressed the good will of Afghan President Ghani in detail, but the situation is complex and unclear. In fact, we do not know whether the combination of intensified violence and an outstretched hand to the Taliban will be successful, and there is also uncertainty as to whether the strategy of the Trump administration, the US government, will be consistent and constructive. Despite positive developments that are fortunately also there, Afghanistan gives the impression of an endless war. It is a complex situation in which the international community is present with three major international operations. Resolute Support, which we are discussing today; UNAMA, the UN mission, and then you also have Freedom's Sentinel, the anti-terrorism emission led by the United States. I would ask the government, before the meeting of the Afghanistan Contact Group in November, to look again, together with the allies, at how to strengthen the coherence of the approach and the clarity of the objectives pursued and to inform the Chamber about them. This may also provide us with a framework in the future to assess the progress of our involvement in Afghanistan. My second point, Madam President. I see I have to hurry. I have also been critical of the coherence with the other mission decisions in general. Mission pressure is too high, says the Court of Auditors, and the Netherlands has actually lived above its standards in terms of missions. So we need to make stronger choices in the future. That is why it would have been all the more important if we could have sided the Article 100 letters with far-reaching decisions on the fight against ISIS, the dismantling of the mission in Mali, Afghanistan and any enlargement in Iraq. In order to do this better in the second half of 2018, I would ask the government to submit the decisions to be taken during that period in conjunction with the Chamber so that we can weigh politically the choice made between the missions. The Netherlands, and I conclude, remains involved in the development of Afghanistan and GroenLinks supports that. Security benefits from further social developments and the strengthening of the rule of law. The training of soldiers and police officers makes a modest contribution to this. That is why GroenLinks, weighing up everything, will agree to this decision and I wish our military every success. They do important work, far from home, under difficult circumstances. I wish them a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u60	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut, this is a plenary session. It's not unlimited interrupting. You may ask a short question, but I'm really gonna make sure it stays limited, otherwise it's gonna be awesome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u61	You are looking at me, Mr President, but I await Mrs Karabulut's question!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u62	I would like to ask a question because Mr Van Ojik has just expressed his support, which was not clear in the first and second periods. Will you allow me to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u63	Yes, of course. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u64	The Green Left Group has always been very critical, also because there is no exit strategy for the military approach. Mr Van Ojik himself also indicated that the Americans are sitting there and bombing a lot. Security's getting worse. What are your expectations of this military strategy, which has indeed become infinitely permanent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u65	Mrs Karabulut is right: this has always been a difficult consideration for my group. The support that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has always given to this mission is ultimately inspired by the conviction that training military in this case can contribute, however modest it may be, to social development and the development of the rule of law in Afghanistan. Perhaps that is a difference between Mrs Karabulut and me, as I am standing here on behalf of my group: the contradiction between security and development is extremely theoretical in the case of Afghanistan. Girls to school, health care and access to clean drinking water stand or fall with the fact that there is a safe environment in which that social development can take place. That requires an army. And if you still need an army, you'll benefit from well-trained soldiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u66	Good. Yes. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u67	But precisely because that political strategy and the exit strategy are missing, because with 140,000 soldiers, too, it has not been possible to shape the security that GroenLinks wants, and because the insecurity is growing, it surprises me, or let me put it this way: I find it disappointing that GroenLinks actually agrees with a war without an end. 'Cause that's it. That is also what the Minister has clearly stated. I'm sorry to hear that. I agree with him: we could and should continue to do social development in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u68	Mrs Karabulut, that was just a conclusion. Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u69	What if I disagree with that conclusion, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u70	You can say that, and then you can sit down again. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u71	Thank you, Mr President. "With military interventions you cannot impose democracy or emancipation. It is only destructive and violence in our world is only a means of achieving political and economic power." This was written by the German-Jewish Hannah Arendt in her book On Violence in the 1970s and with this quote I finished my contribution last year during the article 100 debate on the mission in Afghanistan. Now I will start, because it has still not got through to the ministers. Mr. Chairman. Some people draw lessons from the history of wars and human suffering, for example, that with a vicious circle of violence you do not offer solutions to a country in which drought, hunger, poverty, a weak rule of law and no hope for the future create the greatest threat of radicalisation and terrorism. This cabinet doesn't draw lessons from history. Seventeen years of war! With this extension, it will be about 20 years. Where's this going? Where's this gonna end? The minister didn't know last year and the minister doesn't know now. It's an endless war without winners with an anything but unambiguous enemy. There are now more than 20 different terrorist groups, giving Afghanistan the very doubtful honour of harboring the greatest concentration of terrorist and extremist organisations in the world. See the latest Pentagon report on page 25. And don't forget the very opposing geopolitical interests, which include Russia pulling the strings and the Netherlands follow the US around uncritically in their disastrous war on terror. There is still a long way to go for peace in Afghanistan: hundreds of thousands of dead, millions of refugees, more terrorism and a more unsafe Afghanistan. Women can no longer safely cross the street in Kabul and diplomats go with a helicopter to their appointments. I see Mr Ten Broeke laughing, but I think that is all but laughing. UNICEF claims that Afghanistan is the second most dangerous country for children. Thousands of children die every year. The number of children who do not attend school has not been that high since 2002. Children's rights, but also women's rights and human rights in general are a long way off. The Animal Party still finds it incomprehensible that we have not put all available funds, knowledge and energy into building the judiciary, free press, democratisation and education and in everything that we believe belongs to civilisation, including standing up for the weakest. Therefore, my group can only conclude once again that the Animal Party will not support the continuation and extension of the Dutch contribution to Resolute Support in Afghanistan. However, we wish the military a great deal of strength, good luck and a safe journey home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u72	I have a brief question. I do not want to repeat the interrupting debate with Mrs Karabulut, but I would like to ask Mrs Arissen if she says that we must do everything we can to bring about democracy, the rule of law and education. How much have we done in recent years? How much development money have we given to Afghanistan to make that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u73	Then you'll get the same answer. This is a military mission. It's gotten more unsafe. There have been fewer children in school than ever since 2002.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u74	I asked about the contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u75	Mind if I give you an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u76	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u77	Okay. Press freedom is also under pressure: 21 journalists murdered in 2017 and 169 abused and threatened. What does D66 want with this mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u78	What I don't want is to read random states without any context. What I don't want is to pretend it was very bad in 2016 without comparing it to what it was like in 2001. My question to Mrs Arissen... It was of course faint to ask a factual question... was about how much development money we have given to Afghanistan in recent years. That is EUR 1.3 billion, EUR 1.3 billion, and that, together with our military effort, was not enough to make Afghanistan the Switzerland of Central Asia. So my question to Mrs Arissen is why her strategy, when we are already spending so much money on development, would work. Because all she does is cut the military side out of it, and I simply find that inexplicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u79	Yes, another question: how much have we spent on military missions over the past few years, how many civilian casualties have been suffered and how much insecurity has this caused for the children who went to school, which are fewer than in 2002? I find that a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u80	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u81	Thank you very much for your support, Madam President. I'd like to make one thing right. I have heard this debate a great many times now, with the word 'citizens' victims'. No distinction is made. It is pretended that the civilian victims are still frightening numbers, but they are decreasing only because of the NATO presence there, whereas the reality is that more than two thirds are caused by cowardly, cowardly attacks by the Taliban, and you must also be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u82	Mr. Chairman. May I comment on this for a moment? There are now more than twenty terrorist groups in Afghanistan, the Taliban has just reappeared, and ISIS is there at the moment. So I really don't understand how D66 and the VVD can argue that it has become so much safer on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u83	Does Mrs Arissen-Van Kooten also know why fewer children are going to school at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u84	Yes. I quote UNICEF. These include "3.7 million children unable to attend school due to the deteriorating security situation, the high poverty and discrimination against girls." UNICEF gives a number of reasons for this and says that it has thus become more unsafe in recent years, despite our military mission and all development cooperation, which is thus countering the military mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u85	The honourable Member has to say that this insecurity is not caused by the international forces, but by the fact that the Taliban has increased its grip, so that the girls do not go to school anymore and therefore fewer children go to school. And if Mrs Van Kooten really wants those children to go to school, should she recognise that Afghanistan still needs those international troops? That is the real cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u86	The Animal Party believes that we should remove the breeding ground for terrorism, for war and for violence. And you don't do that with guns, but you do that by actually giving people a future, and not knocking them out of their hands with another bomb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u87	Thank you. Mr Öztürk has the floor on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u88	Mr. Chairman. We discussed the extension of the NATO mission this afternoon. In doing so, we have addressed our concerns in detail. I would like to take this opportunity to make a final appeal, a call not to always go along with the US's warfare, a call not to disrupt the world further, a call not to unnecessarily endanger our soldiers, a call to stop this endless mission. We've done enough already. It went wrong in Mali, it went wrong in Srebrenica and it's been going wrong in Afghanistan for 17 years. There are 3,000 war victims, 7,000 wounded, despite all the military, all the bombs, all the billions. It goes on and on. We're not making any progress. How long are we gonna go against better judgment, bet our military on a hopeless mission? When do we dare to draw the conclusion that is honest and painful? Mr. Chairman. Our military must not be unnecessarily at risk. That is why I would like to mention once again our three criteria for testing a mission. Firstly, we want our soldiers to be provided with basic needs, good equipment and safe ammunition. We have seen that this has not been the case in recent years. Secondly, our contributions to Afghanistan must be made for the right reasons. We must not go along with the warfare of countries that want to impose their will on others for the wrong reasons. Our third criterion is that the mission must be transparent. Bring a war-budsman to report. Moreover, there are only critical noises from society about this mission. We just experienced the presence of an action group. The people don't want war. Without public support, we must not put our soldiers in danger. Finally, Mr President. DENK does not agree with the enlargement. I see that there is still a majority in the Chamber for the establishment parties, which have been involved for years if there is a question of joining the mission. So if there turns out to be a majority in the Chamber, then of course DENK wishes our soldiers a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u89	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u90	Mr President, we thank the three ministers for answering and clarifying our questions. As a group, we now have enough information to make an assessment. We understand from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that there will be another letter of notification for the viewers at home: that is a letter of announcement on the maritime mission. I understand that this can be done either by NATO or by the EU. We have seen in the letter of association that there is also a pre-announcement of the mission in Iraq and the UN mission in Mali. That's obvious. We are waiting for that article 100 letter. Other colleagues have already said it a few times: we note that there are more children in school after 2001, namely 9 million. Where the Taliban has gained control in areas, the number of schoolchildren goes down. The position of women and girls has improved substantially. Access to clean drinking water? Improved. More women have access to the justice system. These positive developments have only been possible by ensuring safety in those particularly urban areas. If the NATO mission were weakened, it would have a direct impact on social development and on the strengthening of the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. We also know that a lasting solution can only be achieved through the negotiating table, but at the same time we note the need for enlargement. We in the Christian Union can therefore support this extension of 60 military forces. For the ministers have also made it clear that air support is guaranteed by the Americans, that Bushmasters will be present to ensure safe ground transport and that medical evacuation is possible by the Germans if injured; the 10.1.2 rule is guaranteed, we understand from the ministers. Since this is guaranteed, we can also agree to this mission. We wish the home front, the military family, strength and the military themselves a successful mission, God's blessing and a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u91	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The consideration for the Labour Party to agree or not to agree to this mission began with the question we asked ourselves: would we live there? If we were to live in Kabul or in one of the provinces and have seen over the past year that more girls can go to school but also that there are still bomb attacks. If we had seen that some economic activity starts here and there but also that some are moving away because they do not see any future. What would we want from the international community? We wish we weren't abandoned. That is also why the Netherlands has contributed to the development of Afghanistan in various ways over the past few years, not to abandon people. In our Constitution, I believe that the task is to contribute to an international legal order. Mr. Chairman. Against this background, we have asked a number of questions about the planned decision to extend and extend the mission. In particular, we have asked questions such as: is the equipment of our military and is the equipment at their disposal sufficient, can they count on adequate medical care, even when the spectrum of violence is actually increasing, and how can we contribute diplomatically and with development cooperation to an Afghanistan where men, women and boys and girls can be safe? Mr. Chairman. We also asked: how does this mission relate to other mission decisions? Today we have discussed this with the ministers. We've been able to take note of briefings and we've read the chamber letters. On this basis, our group can agree to the cabinet decision. Mr. Chairman. We therefore wish the men and women every success in their mission. We think of their home front in the period when they must miss their loved ones and above all we hope for a preserved homecoming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u93	I have a question. The Labour Party has supported missions in Afghanistan in the past and not in the past. It did support it where it was supposed to be built up, which later turned out to be different. She didn't support it either. I have here a quote from Mr Timmersmans from 2011, who spoke of 'a strong military mission because of NATO's strategy'. As Mrs Ploumen herself said, these are commandos and they must compete in the higher spectrum of violence. What are the reasons for the Labour Party's group to support this mission, although there is no exit strategy and the situation in Afghanistan is becoming more unsafe?...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u94	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u95	...knowing President Trump's been bombing the place pretty hard in Afghanistan, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u96	A number of years ago, Afghanistan, with the help of the international community, said that we want to take care of our own security. As a result, the Netherlands, but also other countries, have contributed to training Afghan security forces, such as the police, but also the military. In this context, namely Afghanistan's desire to ensure its own security, we can support this mission. Because the aim is to ensure that Afghanistan's security forces are well equipped and well trained in all circumstances to protect their own people. Unfortunately, this sometimes includes a higher spectrum of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u97	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u98	Finally, Mr President. Can Mrs Ploumen then explain why something that did not succeed with 140,000 soldiers a few years ago would now succeed with 20,000 soldiers, knowing that there are now more terrorist groups? Does Mrs Ploumen not see that this military strategy is an obstacle to the peace process and that insecurity is growing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u99	I am sorry that Mrs Karabulut has so little confidence in the Afghan security forces themselves. I will not say that everything is under full control and that everything is state of the art, but there is the intention to take care of safety and to protect its own people. As a result, there can indeed be fewer international contributions. As far as we are concerned, this is specifically aimed at a capacity that still needs to be developed with the Afghan security apparatus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u100	Thank you. I'll see if the Foreign Minister can answer. I actually want to make an appointment now about the number of interruptions. I'm allowing two interruptions. It is up to you to decide which ruler you direct. I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament who, regardless of whether they support the Rule 100 question of the Cabinet or not, have expressed their strong support for the men and women who, I may conclude, are now being sent on behalf of all of us with the support of the majority of the Chamber. It is quite right that all of you, in this way, should also express your appreciation for the difficult work they are doing on our behalf. I shall now turn to the questions raised by each of the speakers in my area, as colleagues will do in their area. Mr Ten Broeke noted that Afghanistan would remain a complex country, but that much had been achieved thanks to the commitment, including our men and women, and that in order to bring it to a successful conclusion, a continued effort was needed. I therefore thank him for his support. Ms Karabulut laid down the doubts she expressed during the AO regarding the deployment in Afghanistan in a motion calling for the withdrawal of the decision in accordance with Article 100 of the Constitution on a military mission until 2021. The request to the Dutch Government was made by the democratically elected President of Afghanistan, as I said in the consultations. He has made it clear that he wants to work on a peace process and put forward a concrete proposal for it. In doing so, he needs our support in order to build his own forces to ensure stability, so that there can be a rule of law and security, so that children can go to school and build a society. If you get such a request, which is also supported by the United Nations, which is also present with a mission in that country, then you must have a very good reason to reject such a request. Then you must also realize what it means when there is no military presence. Mrs Karabulut was the first, and others later went into it to draw the comparison with the past. Then you must also draw a complete comparison with the past. We know what the situation was before 2002. Ms Karabulut went back to 2002. That was the year of the massive American effort. Before that, so without Western military commitment, the Taliban was in power, the country was in the dark Middle Ages, there was an Islamic-fundamentalist regime, which has kept a terrible house there, and the situation for women and girls was a hell, as I also mentioned in the consultation. The withdrawal of military forces, as proposed by Mrs Karabulut, would therefore be dramatic for the people of Afghanistan. It will be clear that I therefore also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u102	For the sake of completeness, this request was made not only by the President of Afghanistan, but also by NATO, where the United States and President Trump are the driving force behind it. But now let's get past this windowdressing and back to the motivation and arguments that the Minister gives to extend this mission for three years, but if it is necessary by another twenty years, so really infinitely. That's security, terrorist groups out and fewer refugees. On all three points, the situation is deteriorating. We have more terrorist groups in Afghanistan. There are more refugees. We too are more threatened by this commitment. That is what the Minister writes in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u103	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u104	So what is the purpose of this minister? Can he now, because he did not do so in the debate, comment on the substance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u105	Mrs Karabulut mentions three aspects, but she deliberately does not mention the aspect I mentioned. I will deal with her aspects, but I find that significant. I outline the situation in which Afghanistan will end up if we do what Mrs Karabulut asks, namely full military withdrawal. It'll be the dark Middle Ages. And indeed, that also has effects on the points mentioned by Mrs Karabulut. Then it will also be, much more so than it is now, a base for terrorism. The reason for the intervention was the attack on the Twin Towers, a truly terrible attack, organized from Afghanistan. There were then huge refugee flows, which could not in any way return to their country, because Afghanistan was the dark Middle Ages. You'll get that situation back. And you get a situation where for the entire population there is no question of safety. There's gonna be stoning again. Hands are being cut off for theft. Islamic fundamentalism has regained power. We can't just let that happen, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u106	I note that this minister apparently portrays the people, the ordinary Afghans for 2001 all as retarded. I distance myself from the way he talks about that. Two. I note that the Minister does not go into the facts as they are now. Let me be clear: of course women's rights and support where we can, sure. But can the Minister be honest for once that these interventions, the permanent war in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, will not bring us the security that this minister and other great powers promise us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u107	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u108	There are more terrorist groups and more attacks. That is the motivation the Minister uses to suck us into this endless war.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u109	Mrs Karabulut now mentions a lot of things. She mentions, among other things, that she is in favour of women's and girls' rights. How can you be in favour of women's and girls' rights and say at the same time: withdraw the Western troops? You know what's gonna happen then, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u110	I would point out once again that the Minister has no answer to the points he has raised as a reason for this intervention and that he therefore agrees with the fact that it has become more unsafe and that there is more terrorism. Two. Those women and girls are also being bombed by the United States. There are also drone attacks. Three. The NGOs we spoke to all want to get out of Afghanistan. Why? Because it's unsafe. The American diplomats...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u111	No, Mrs. Karabulut. That's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u112	...can't travel without a helicopter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u113	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u114	Could the minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u115	Mrs. Karabulut. I would suggest that the Minister simply respond to the questions and then we move on to the other Members of Parliament. They too have asked questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u116	Mrs Karabulut says NGOs want to leave Afghanistan. If Mrs Karabulut gets her way, they'll have to because the Taliban won't let them. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr De Roon, who also referred to figures on increasing violence and on the impact that would not be measured. I indicated that, eight years ago, 130,000 foreign troops were needed to ensure stability in Afghanistan. That number has now been reduced to 16,000, but the Afghan Government, which has been democratically elected, is asking for our support to learn, support and maintain order in the country. For the reasons I have just exchanged with Mrs Karabulut, I think it is right to honour that request in cooperation with allies and embedded in a further development strategy. Mr Sjoerdsma had a number of points which specifically related to the colleague of Defence. It will respond to this, but I thank him for his strong support. Mr Krol indicated how difficult the balance was for his group. I regret, of course, that he was unable to express his support at least at the moment. Mr Stoffer expressed his support. Referring to the words of General De Kruif, he indicated how complex the commitment is in Afghanistan and how valuable the contribution of our men and women there is. I would also like to thank him for his support. Mr Van Helvert also referred to the many things that we were happy to achieve. I thank him for his support. Mr Van Ojik had two supplementary questions on information and coherence in forthcoming military missions. Mr Bijleveld will comment on that. I would also like to thank him for his support. Mrs Van Kooten also opted for the option of completely withdrawing the military. I believe that this option has already been sufficiently explained in the debate with Mrs Karabulut. Mr Öztürk is also in favour of the complete withdrawal of military forces. I would also point out to him the consequences that this would have. I have already mentioned them towards Mrs Karabulut. Mr Voordewind once again asked for a notification on possible marine emissions. If there is such a marin emission and it is an article 100 mission, then we will indeed notify it in good time. I would also like to thank him for his strong support. Mrs Ploumen ended with the sentence she started with this afternoon, which illustrates a very strikingly important question that we were faced with today: what would we want if we lived in Afghanistan? I would also like to thank her for filling in the answer to that question by expressing support for the intention of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u117	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to endorse what the Foreign Minister has said. He said he was pleased with the broad support there is in the Chamber for this mission in Afghanistan, and ultimately for our men and women doing the work there. In the end, they always do that with danger to their own lives. We're more than aware of that. What we can do to keep them coming home, we will do. There are still a few questions left in my direction. Mr Ten Broeke stressed once again that it is very important that we think more about the end-state concept when it comes to missions. That is why we have asked for a longer term for this mandate than is perhaps customary, with an interim test on that thought. We will look at this every year in an evaluative manner. That's what we agreed. Then the other questions. Mr Sjoerdsma has once again stressed the points that we stand for. I think he has clearly indicated why it is very important that we all end up focusing on that safe situation in Afghanistan. That mission also has an explicit effect on this, if we manage things properly: the good equipment, the good medical supplies and air support. If there's no air support, our men won't go out there. That is what I said this afternoon in the debate to Mr Van Helvert. Those cases are taken care of. I have also assured the Chamber that this mission has no effect on the final timetable for the basic readiness of the armed forces, which is our greatest concern. Other points have been raised by Mr Blok, so I shall deal with those of Mr Van Ojik. He said, "I entered two points this afternoon. One. Coherence within Afghanistan. What's the deal with that? And two. Coherence on the mission side." He asked us: would you like to discuss once again in the contact group for Afghanistan how to strengthen the goals with each other? The answer to that is yes. I myself spoke with the Afghan Minister of Defence at the NATO ministerial, but also with the force commander in Afghanistan, General John Nicholson. It is indeed a complex and complex situation. Mrs Ploumen indicated that, and you did so this afternoon. We have to try to connect that with each other properly. So I'll pick up that point. We'll discuss that. Then you had a second point: the Court of Auditors, which we also discussed two weeks ago, and the high level of mission pressure. You said, and that is what you said this afternoon: 'I would prefer to discuss in conjunction with you all the decisions on Article 100 letters as they are needed'. That is, of course, why we have brought forward this letter of coherence on what is to come. Usually it comes in the fall. But also to the question "if it comes then, can you put it right next to each other?', Is the answer yes. We will try, as far as we can, to indicate this in conjunction, also bearing in mind what the General Court has indicated in our direction. We will simply end that successfully and also relate to each other. So the answer to both questions is yes. I think it is very important that you have mentioned it again, as I really see it, and Mrs Ploumen said that in the end what our soldiers are doing there really contributes to the development of the rule of law. No matter how shaky it is, it's gonna fall and get up. We have also discussed this in general in one term. The capacity we provide, as Mrs Ploumen said, almost when we run away, or the special forces, is something we are good at. That is unique and that is a capacity that still has to be developed there. In that sense, I think it is very important that we can deliver that capacity on request. Finally, I would like to say that the approach adopted by Mrs Ploumen is how would we look at it? I have already spoken to me in the consultation and now again. In the end, that's also the weighting we stand for together. So I would like to thank you for your support. In its entirety, it's about protecting what's dear to us, whether it's here in the Kingdom or together with allies elsewhere in the world. That's what we're out for on a daily basis. I want to leave it at that, because I answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u119	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and the governors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-48.u120	We shall be voting on the motion tabled tonight.
