ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u1	The next item is the debate on the outcome of the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u2	Does the Minister know about glue? That you're gonna walk through the field and stick all those balls? If you want to take those off your pants, they'll stick to your finger, and when you take them off your finger, they'll just sit on your sleeve. Does the Minister know that? The referendum is Minister Ollongren's glue: the more she tries to get rid of it, the harder it sticks. The turnout was high. The rash was clear. The Netherlands said no to the tow law. Last week we read in all kinds of leaks in the media that this time the government would show respect for the electorate's choice. Next month, the law goes in. I ask the Minister if she can tell us what article of that law, what letter of that law or what comma of that law she intends to change to the law before that time. I'm afraid the truth is nothing at all. I am afraid that the electorate's choice will once again be set aside arrogantly. Well, we did get a letter. In it, the Minister promises that the secret services will work as closely as possible. Yes, thank you the cuckoo! You don't think the secret services should work as unfocused as possible, do you? But the law doesn't change anything. The AIVD and the STUDY can continue to collect and exchange unfocused data from people who have nothing to do with it. The exchange of this data requires a weighting note, but it had to be. The law doesn't change that. The retention period of the data is shortened from three to one year, writes the Minister, but this can also be extended to three years. The law doesn't change anything. The Minister's proposals sound good, but the problem is that the Netherlands has said no to the collection and sharing of data from people who have nothing to do with anything. This can easily be solved by changing a number of articles of law. We can do justice to the people's no. That brings me to the next issue. I think that after this referendum it is time for this Chamber to think about its own functioning, because this Parliament too has had a lot of talk in this referendum. Once again, we saw that an important law was passed here by a large majority but was still rejected by the population. This calls into question the functioning of our parliamentary democracy. This referendum also shows that our parliamentary democracy is not mature and that we need that referendum as a parliament to be advised and corrected. By the way, that is a fine task for the First Chamber, which now has to decide on the future of the referendum. I would ask the Minister to at least do justice to the initiatives taken by the people and to allow all the requests made before that time to continue. I hope that the Minister will be able to say so here today, because the referendum is also the glue of our democracy. That's a wonderful right that voters shouldn't let themselves be taken away. I am once again curious about the response of the Minister of the Interior, but I am sorry that our Prime Minister is not here. I invited him to the debate, but he's not here. He's in China to defend the interests of the multinationals. He's there for the multinationals, not here for the people. That's how it is once more: the politician recognizes you by his priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u4	Mr. Chairman. The referendum is a success. The discussion was nuanced. The debate was about content and people voted by a large majority. Contrary to previous reports, the cabinet took this result seriously and put forward a number of amendments. We are in favour of this. We too, of course, have a number of wishes and a number of questions. But we particularly regret that the cabinet has already decided to withdraw the instrument of the referendum before an evaluation of the referendum has taken place. Maybe we'll get another referendum on donorship. We welcome that, too. I am very much in favour of this, but this also calls for a thorough discussion with society. You can have a referendum on that. So maybe there's still time for reflection. Mr. Chairman. Then about the contents of the Wiv. A number of good points have been made, but a number of concerns remain. I'll mention two of them. One issue that we have already raised is the Review Committee on Budgetary Powers. It needs to check and see whether what we have agreed with each other when it comes to this bill is being properly observed. We are concerned about the human force, so how many people they have there. Is that enough? Are they capable of their duties? My second point is that the Minister has written to us that the retention period is one year. That's good. But at the same time, the same minister may decide that the retention period is from one to two or three years. Is it not wise, then, to lay down this power with this independent review committee and to give it a say in it, so that you can guarantee independence in it? I'd like to receive a response from the Minister. Finally, I have a question about the action of the Minister himself. A week after the referendum, the Minister came out with an interesting report from the CTIVD. He wrote that the exchange with foreign services now happened carelessly. The Minister sent that report one-on-one to the Chamber, but not immediately, so not before that referendum. Well, that does seem like there was something to hide, doesn't it? That also gives rise to distrust in politics. Why couldn't this have happened in advance, while a number of firm conclusions were drawn about privacy? That is why I would like to put the question again here: why has there not been a speed increase? The deadline of six weeks was two days after the referendum. In such a case, I think: then you can also sit down a few days before the referendum, especially since the Minister sent the final report to the Chamber unchanged. Why wasn't that deliberately chosen? Also, one of my questions has still not been answered properly. One of the reasons given by the Minister himself is that contact with foreign services was delayed longer. When was the last time the Minister had contact with these foreign services? What is the reason that this report was sent to the Chamber a week after the referendum in this case? These are matters that matter. Because especially when it comes to sensitive issues where privacy and the importance of security can be a dilemma, so where these values can collide, careful treatment in this house, in this Chamber, is extremely important. The only thing a minister who often has to operate in the dark can sail on is her trust. That is why it is important that she deals with this carefully. I look forward to the reaction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u5	I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u6	Mr. Chairman. A PR stunt, a wash nose, insufficient, minor changes, new bureaucratic obstacles, butter soft, only cosmetic adjustments, old wine in new bags, a lack of guts and an empty insert: this is a selection of comments from scientists, parliamentary journalists and privacy watchdogs. I've done my best to find some positive explanation from experts somewhere, but no one is really excited. It is hardly a change, especially when the cabinet simply lets the law enter into force on 1 May, despite the clear rejection by the people in an advisory referendum. The six elements are only explained more explicitly and are little different from what is already in the law. Now that the government calls it a change of law, fine, but then that change of law goes through both chambers again. The Animal Party wants a better law with a majority of the Dutch population, with stricter and better standards, without violating human rights such as privacy and freedom of expression. She wants to play an active part in this. What is the way the cabinet is going to offer the people's representatives, the highest democratic authority in this country? I'd like a response from the Minister. Let's get back to the beginning. The CTIVD's report on the protection of citizens' privacy in the sharing of information with foreign services had been on its desk for six weeks, when it was March 21st referendum day. In Nieuwsuur, the minister declared that there were really enough guarantees in the law, but she already had that report, which voters knew nothing about and apparently not supposed to know about. Against BNR Nieuwsradio, the Minister defended that the report was not sent to the Chamber until a week after the referendum, arguing that there was a six-week deadline for such reports and that she had taken six weeks. The report was completed on February 7th. Exactly six weeks later, upside down, it was March 21st, referendum day. The PDF file was created on March 19; that's two days before the referendum. Nevertheless, the Minister felt it necessary to wait another week. Can the Minister explain that? It seems that the Minister has deliberately informed the Chamber and the citizens of the Netherlands too late and has thus influenced the outcome of the referendum. Then there's the referendum result. The turnout threshold has been reached and the votes against were in the majority. The cabinet has learned from past mistakes, but only very selective, and thought: let's do something about the results right away. In the opinion of the Cabinet, the adjustments are consistent with the outcome of the referendum and are at the same time workable for the services. That sounded too good to be true and that immediately raised the question: how can a cabinet that liked the previous version of the Wiv 2017 be quite well put together, now that suddenly it comes to the conclusion that it might still be a bit better, while at the same time it is still workable for the services? Very curious. How can the dry-eyed cabinet claim that the objections have been met by making only a few purely cosmetic adjustments? Is this really the way in which the cabinet wants to do justice to an obvious no? The minister says a lot is changing for the services. In this debate, will the Minister indicate, by means of an amendment, how it is, in her view, an improvement on the original tow law? How can the proposed amendments be described as substantial, while the original law, without such amendments, simply enters into force on 1 May? Is there going to be a repeal law or a clear proposal of amendment that will be dealt with democratically by both Chambers of the States-General? Is the Minister prepared to admit that she has held back the CTIVD report for far too long and has thereby influenced the outcome of the referendum in an inauspicious way? And what are the consequences of this? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u8	Mr President, I say hallelujah, I say hallelujah, because the referendum is making more and more converts. The referendum as an instrument is becoming increasingly popular. It seems as if we are in an American church, where sinners come forward one by one to confess their new faith. And I say to you: you are welcome, but learn from your sins, your sins against direct democracy. Friday, Brother Mark Rutte came forward. For years, he had been full-hearted against the referendum, but now he showed that the Wiv became a better law thanks to the referendum. And Minister Bruins, from the same church, now says: the donor law is a fine subject for a referendum. Welcome, Brother Bruno. The CDA first stated that nothing could and should be changed. It was even antidemocratic when that happened. But look at this: six changes, well, changes to the law, thanks to that same brutalized referendum. This minister, too, seems to be a cautious convert. At first, the Wiv was beautiful and the referendum was bad. Now the law is being improved, she even says. That is a good thing for her because of the brutalized referendum. So she says that the Wiv has only become good thanks to that referendum. Even the SGP has seen the light after 100 years. Brother Roelof Bishop called last week for support for the new referendum on the donor law. I say hallelujah. My group is deeply moved that parties such as GroenLinks and the PvdA, who fired the binding referendum lovingly, are now at the forefront of praise for the referendum. I say: that is profit; welcome to the warm mother of direct democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u9	I imagine that Mr Bosma is in a euphoric mood thinking that he has converted a bishop, but I would like to remind him of some nuances. The tweet to which he refers was in the spirit of: we are not making propaganda for the referendum, but we understand that a referendum on a donor law is very interesting. That was about the tone of the tweet. That is not the embrace of the referendum. I must disappoint you: there is neither repentance nor penance nor repentance. We reject the referendum and continue to reject it because it runs counter to a carefully structured, indirect, representative democracy. That's what we need to focus our energy on. Does Mr Bosma agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u10	Well, only partially. For Mr Bishop embraces the referendum on the donor law. He also hopes that a lot of people will sign up to ensure that the necessary signatures are obtained. Then Mr Bishop can say here that he is reluctantly doing it or that he does not actually think so, but I simply note that he is embracing the instrument of the referendum. I commend him for that. It took 100 years at the SGP, but you've seen the light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u11	I'm afraid I'm gonna have to disappoint Mr Bosma. The SGP does not embrace the referendum. Have another sip, Mr. Bosma, because you need to process this. The SGP does not embrace the referendum. Only, if the referendum is there and it is used...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u12	Yeah, I'd like another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u13	... we'll take note of that, of course. Of course you have to take that seriously. I will explain this later in my speech. Is the disappointment not too great for Mr Bosma? Can Mr Bosma deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u14	No, because the enthusiasm that fell into me when you saw your tweet is still equally strong. I praise the SGP. I commend Mr Bishop for the enthusiasm with which he embraces the referendum on the donor law and for joining the people who seek signatures to make that referendum possible. I love that. Then Mr Bishop can say: I will do it, but I do not really think it is. That is for the scribes. I simply note that Mr Bishop in practice embraces the referendum. I therefore commend him, and I say to him welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u16	Mr. Chairman. For example, there are more people who embrace the referendum. Two weeks ago, there was a hearing with state lawyers in the First Chamber. They all want the referendum now. On Saturday I looked at the house organ of left Dutch, the Volkskrant. It was full of columnists who embraced the referendum and even a main editorial commentary in which the referendum was embraced. Also the D66 newspaper NRC Handelsblad seems to have converted. This is all a gain, because the referendum has once again proved to be a powerful means, a necessary means, a useful tool in our democracy. This was also reflected in this referendum. Wasn't it great? For more than a month, citizens spoke about a subject in substance, in this case the secret services. There were discussions in the country. There were pieces in the paper. There were programs on television. A broad public debate at the level. That is a gain for democracy. It's beautiful for the Netherlands. It's been a party for all of us. This minister is against the referendum. She actually says that the people are mentally unable to vote on policy issues. If there is a referendum, you would think: then the minister provides a lot of information, so that the people can get a bit intellectually up to level. What happened in practice? The CTIVD report was withheld; Mrs Arissen was just talking about it. Why does the Minister do that? What the hell happened? What happened is that the people voted against the law. The people say: the law must not come. And what happens? The law is just gonna be there on May 1st. That's in a couple of weeks. The result of the referendum is therefore not being taken into account. Article 11 of the Wrr says it very simply: to table as soon as possible a proposal of law intended solely to repeal that law. That's what the Minister has to do. So the Minister should not say that the party on 1 May is going to continue cheerfully. In the note we've been given, that insert sheet, there's actually nothing in it three times. On page 1, the word "clear" is used. The Minister's letter simply clarifies the law. Not one hard and serious policy proposal is being launched. Nothing new is happening. Things are explained and things that are already in it are explained. There's a bit of a juggling of concepts. There is talk of medical records and journalists. Yeah, the opposite wasn't in the law, was it? There is talk of an accelerated weighting of cooperation with foreign services. This has been the subject of discussion for many years. The weighting notes will now be completed this year instead of in two years' time. It's not one wash nose, it's six wash noses...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u17	Will you finish up, Mr. Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u18	... which we've been presented with. Let me put it this way, Mr President: a child's hand is quickly filled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u19	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u20	Mr. Chairman. We're starting to learn. The referendum is over the crawling phase. There was a 51% turnout before the referendum on the drag law. That's almost 7 million valid votes. As a blow to the head, the cabinet has indicated that the tow law is being amended on points. The intention to listen is there. Unfortunately, it is a tissue for bleeding, because the referendum itself is being taken away. The 50PLUS Group would like to know from the Minister how terrible it was to listen to the outcome of the referendum. Was it really such a drama, so unworkable, as nonsense as she wanted us to believe a while back? This referendum is a victory, a victory for democracy. We could have had a nice party if that big dark cloud wasn't hanging over it. Fortunately, the First Chamber is taking its time. Perhaps there will be white smoke later and the consultative referendum will continue. The 50PLUS Group only repeats it once more: with some practice, with traps and standing up, with a good evaluation and with the forthcoming opinion of the Remkes Committee in our hands, we can grow into an adult form of direct democracy. We have already learned so much, for example, that it is good to link referenda to regular elections. That increases turnout and saves costs. In the meantime, we have also learned that a referendum is launching a broad public debate. This is good for the functioning of democracy and for the support for action. Finally, some shortcomings identified by the Election Board in the minutes. 411 comments have been made on poor access to polling stations. What's the Minister gonna do about it? The Election Board notes that the Turkish flag was hung in a polling station. It is a bad thing that this is happening again. Mr Koopmans raised the question of whether the Kieswet is sufficient to prevent this kind of political influence in polling stations. The minister thought so, but it keeps happening. Is the Minister now prepared to do something about it instead of pointing out the responsibility of municipalities? I am considering tabling a motion to investigate whether foreign flags and other forms of political influence in a polling station could be punishable. The Election Board notes that in four polling stations 95% to 99% of the votes voted in favour. It's explained by descriptors. My group is a little more sceptical. Further investigation seems to be in order. I'd like a response. More generally: how did the check on counting go? The promised public campaign to call on voters to control the counting failed, despite repeated questions from 50PLUS. That democratic control is just a paper tiger. What is the Minister going to do to get this control in the polling station, which is the only time the ballots themselves are getting out of hand? We're gonna keep hammering it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u21	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I agree with those Members who say that the consultative referendum has proved its worth. Thanks to five concerned Amsterdam students, for the first time we had a substantive discussion about the powers of our secret services and the limits that we want to set, a social debate. People have become more aware of the importance of privacy in general. In response to the outcome, it is now proposed to amend a law that was able to count on a large majority in the House of Representatives to make it a better law in the words of Minister Ollongren. My group welcomes the cabinet movement, although it has been forced to do so. Previously, the CDA group chairman, Mr Buma, said that he did not consider this referendum to be a real referendum. He would ignore the result very hard, because his cabinet wants to abolish referendums. It takes political courage to get back to those words now, especially because he knows that his flexibility gives many reason to think that the consultative referendum is a sensible instrument. It actually guides the action of the cabinet and parliament. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to the amendments tabled by the cabinet. It is remarkable that they touch precisely those points which were indeed the most critical in the public debate. These are also points on which my group proposed a repair law a few weeks ago. So you can say that the concerns of the camp have been heard. However, that does not mean that these concerns have been dealt with properly. There has been a very minimalist response to these concerns. The neekamp has pointed the way, but the cabinet has not completely walked the path. For example, many opponents have argued not to pass on unread data to foreign services. We don't want to hand over a black box that we don't even know what's inside. Even among the supporters, this transfer to abroad was most critical of the dangers for human rights activists, economic business espionage, journalistic source protection and so on. The new proposals do not put an end to passing on unread data. However, there will be accelerated weighing notes, as Mr Van Raak referred to them, which make it clear what the democratic and legal status of these countries is and how they protect their data. But yes, there is no lower limit and there is no control over what happens to those data. So it remains possible that our data will be in the hands of unsavory regimes. Where does this get us? The proposals of this cabinet make the law and its implementation slightly better. At the same time, a number of fundamental issues remain. All in all, my group assesses the amended law with a 5+, but I see a chance to make it a sufficient one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u23	I don't know if we've read the same letter, because where will the law be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u24	Of course, we must wait for the Minister's proposals. But I have seen that the law is being amended, among other things, with, say, the inclusion of the Recourt motion in the slightly more targeted part of the tow law. That was part of our repair law. Unfortunately, the Minister has forgotten the second part, and that was Mr Verhoeven's proposal in the original legal process to include a text. We would have liked to have included this in these new amendments. That's one of the proposals I'm going to make to the Minister. What I want to do, Mr. Van Raak, is actually open negotiations on the law. The cabinet has made a move. I'd say, of which I'm aware. I believe that the proposals at least touch on the issues that have indeed been raised in the debates, and I now think it is up to us, including you and me, to work on improving these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u25	I agree. That's why I found it so strange that GroenLinks said that there were all kinds of changes in that letter. There was no change in that. The law doesn't change anything with that letter. I fully agree with Mrs Buitenweg that, for example, the amendment tabled by Mrs Voortman and myself, which we tabled in the course of the legislative process, aims at removing the dragnet function from the law. Look, then we meet the no and that could be a proposal that really helps people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u26	Look, I get it very well. Indeed, we originally adopted this position last year, and I am still in favour of removing the dragnet from that law. At the same time, I do not think it is fair to say that nothing changes at all. As far as I am concerned, the inclusion of this motion for a resolution is far from sufficient, but it is indeed an amendment to the law that the CTIVD has just requested. The CTIVD said that it is important that we regulate citizens' guarantees not by motion, but that they are also included in the law. What I understood from the Minister's letter is that this motion will indeed eventually be incorporated into the law. It's still too limited, but you can't say it's nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u27	Mr Van Raak, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u28	Then Mrs Buitenweg takes a bit of a look at the Minister, because the law will come into force on 1 May. The debate we are having today on the people's no is about what articles, what letters and what commas are being changed before the law is introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u29	No, that's another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u30	No, that's not another point. That is the point of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u31	I agree with you there. If the law enters into force on 1 May, the amendments must also enter into force, otherwise the law must be postponed. The changes of the cabinet must therefore be incorporated into the law and otherwise the law must not enter into force. That's my point of view. At the same time, I say: be a little generous, small changes are proposed in the law, and they should come into force together, rather than at a later date than 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u32	What does the Advisory referendum Act say about negotiation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u33	I am standing here in a political forum and I say that I am starting the negotiations here. No, I didn't. The law doesn't say that. The law says: are you for or against a particular subject of a referendum. Then the cabinet has to weigh that up. But what I see here is that the cabinet has made a number of proposals. I do not want to be dismissed now: we as a coalition have made the proposals. Much of the opposition has led the Neekamp and I want us to talk about what repairs are needed. That is what I want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u34	You say: then the cabinet must weigh it up. What should the cabinet weigh, according to you, under the Advisory referendum Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u35	The cabinet must see how it will respond to the no vote. So basically this law needs to be revised on points. I have also looked very closely at what a large number of no-voters have said. For example Amnesty International and Bits of Freedom have said: 90% of the law stands, but against that 10% we have fundamental criticism and that 10% is not a small beer, which is still fundamental criticism, but a large part of the law is an improvement. Well, that's something I'm gonna take into account, too. What I think is important is that we urge the cabinet to sit down with the opposition to see how we can really do justice to the no vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u36	Where in the Consultative referendum Act it says that the cabinet must respond to the no vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u37	It doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u38	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u39	And now you're gonna let them send you into the woods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u40	Mr. Martin Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u41	With such an opposition, we don't really need a coalition anymore. Does Mrs Buitenweg opt for the plush or something? What's going on here? I don't get it at all. That letter from the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u42	Mrs Özütok, don't. Proceed, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u43	The second paragraph of the Minister's letter simply states that it is clarified in that letter. So there will be no new policy at all and there will be no changes at all, but that letter is just meant to explain things a little, to clarify things. Has Mrs Buitenweg also taken note of the motion for a resolution which she is now defending?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u44	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u45	That would be the great watershed in Dutch politics. It states that "needs, proportionality and subsidiarity must be interpreted and used in practice as requirements that will lead to the most targeted use of powers." That's as weak as I know what.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u47	And Mrs Buitenweg now says: well, she is being put into practice and now everything is changing. I say, nothing changes at all. What makes you think that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u48	Listening is an art. I told you I didn't think it was enough. So it is not at all the case that I am already saying 'hallelujah' about the cabinet's proposals to stick to your words. What I am saying is that we thought it important that this focus should be introduced into the law, because we want not only to look at the proportionality of the action for someone we want to target, but also at what the effects are for people who are being eavesdropped. That is something that you and I have found important, namely that this focus is also being argued. We will see exactly how that is going to come about in that law, because there are still a lot of precise amendments to be made. The Minister's letter is pointing it in a direction. And I would like to say to the Minister that I think it is a good thing that she is going to do something on this point, but that my group still does not think it is enough. We would like to see how we can improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u50	I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to another point, which we have also raised in our repair law, but for which the Minister has so far had no attention. I'm talking about getting data from third parties. Before the services can provide themselves with access to automated databases, they need the Minister's permission: a kind of licence to hack. That consent is not necessary if they ask the administrator of the databases neatly. This article is actually a form of entrapment to escape the Minister's control, and this is one of the other points that still needs to be repaired. But this is how my group stands about it. We want to try to improve the text on some points. We are not satisfied with the proposals as they stand. We would like to look at the concrete texts and then look at how we can help amend them. We are far from there yet, but at the same time I think we should do everything together to shape that no vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u51	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I thought in advance: I am not going to explain how the SGP stands against the referendum, because that is clear enough. In the interruption I have already tried to make that a little clearer, but if there is a need, I am fully prepared to do that again. I would, moreover, prefer to avoid terms such as hallelujah as much as possible. Such a term has a more spiritual meaning than just a triumphal cry: they are overstag. Mr. Chairman. Following the outcome of the referendum, the government addresses a number of important issues. You're right. But we are not quite sure, we suspect that this will also do enough justice to the concerns that have led opponents to vote against. At the same time, one of the major shortcomings of the referendum becomes visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u53	Mr. Azarkan wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u54	I'm sorry. I had to cough first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u55	Accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u56	I've got a little cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u57	Thank you for sharing that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u58	That's what Brussels adventures give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u59	Something domestic, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u60	Yes, Mr Bishop and I were together yesterday in Brussels. I may have gotten it there. A question about that beginning, because I also had my doubts about the tweet that I saw last week. There was something like: we are opposed to referenda, but now that we are in favour of this dossier, I can imagine that we would like to do so. I just heard Mr Bishop explain that. They are not my words, but I also read a number of reactions from people who said: that is hypocritical. How does Mr Bishop react to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u61	Thank you for the opportunity to explain this and thank you for other comments, which said: no, but if you think carefully, that's just right. The position of the SGP is clear and unchanged against referenda. Only we now have a referendum option. That's a legally regulated option. Of course, in my tweet I put it that way; not that it suits me well, but that I would be very curious to see a referendum on donor registration. That was the content of my tweet a bit, so was the reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u62	I didn't know you tweeted, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u63	Yeah? You want me to stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u64	Well, it does lead to the necessary discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u65	Speaks the chairman motherly admonition! For the sake of explanation, the legal possibility exists, which makes it a legitimate instrument and can therefore be used in a legitimate way. Since it is a consultative referendum, I therefore also think that you should consider the opinion that comes from it for or against, the extent to which for or against.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So you are taking it seriously now, but in the meantime, I am very much in favour of repealing that referendum law as soon as possible. But that has to be done properly and neatly and there is another catch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u66	Do I understand why you were enthusiastic about the referendum on the tow law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u67	No, I wouldn't have been for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u68	But that's weird, isn't it? Because the circumstances were exactly the same as they are now. We had a law. It's an interesting subject. You write in your tweet: we are prepared. So was back then. So there seems to be a suggestion that, if it is a subject that you have an interest in, namely the donor law, you are somewhat opportunistic. But, Mr. Bishop, we got to know each other well yesterday, so I wouldn't be looking for it so quickly, but that's what it looked like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u69	No, you shouldn't. You shouldn't be looking for that either, that opportunism. I'm trying to keep my distance from that. But one subject isn't the other. One subject may be more appropriate than the other. A law on intelligence and security services, in my opinion, does not lend itself at all to a referendum. It is typically the responsibility of the People's Assembly to form an opinion on this. That law is far too complex to present all that well-balanced and balanced. But a donor law affects everyone directly. You are talking about a difference in subjects, so I can imagine more of a referendum on one subject than on the other. But I'm staying against a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u70	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u71	However, it is interesting, because you argue that donor law affects everyone. The problem with that tow law is that it hits everyone, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u72	Yeah, that depends on your behavior, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u73	That is exactly what we want to get out with a number of parties, so it affects the people who are committing an offence, who want to do something criminal, who want to commit an attack, but precisely the data of people who happen to be around, in the wrong place, at the wrong time, are not tapped and not shared with other security services. So if your argument is that this concerns everyone, then the problem with that drag law is that it affects everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u74	You have a point. It is then only a question of whether what is collected by a towage action and what is not relevant is removed as soon as possible or handled carefully. We must make that weighting clear. I should like to mention that point in my remarks. Mr. Chairman. I made the point of whether we have addressed enough the concerns of the counter-voters. We don't know. When we read the letter from the government, the points proposed appear to be mainly an explanation of the law. I agree with the colleagues who have made this point. This is in line with previous statements made in the handling of this bill in both chambers. That also makes sense, because the points that have always been raised have also been discussed in detail in the legal process. Of course, it wouldn't hurt to make that explicit again in a letter. This ensures that the already good, well-balanced law, with its own rules for each type of data processing, is interpreted again clearly. I'm passing four points and I have a question. The legal text requires data to be given to foreign intelligence and security services only if there is a weighting note. It is aimed in particular at ensuring that there are basic conditions such as democratic embedding and respect for human rights. With services that have not previously cooperated, data can only be exchanged after such a weighting note. That was also explicitly stated by Minister Plasterk at the time of the examination in the Upper House. A question to this Minister: is the SGP Group's impression that data can now be exchanged more quickly on the basis of a weighting note, but that the strict conditions of the law still remain 100%? A second question concerns the unnecessary retention of data. The three-year period will now be a three-year period with two interim evaluations. Does the SGP understand that there is once official consent, that there is an interim evaluation every year and that this mid-term evaluation is as thorough as the test at the beginning of the three-year period? Is that the case? And what does that mean for the existing possibility of extending the three-year deadline? I would like to clarify this further. Mr. Chairman. Previously, the SGP already supported the Recourt motion to ensure that the deployment of the services is as targeted as possible. This prevents too fine-meshed a towing network and ensures the use of sophisticated, targeted measures and actions. Can the government state what else is going on in this section over the guarantees of the law and the direction that the motion asks for? Finally, the protection of journalists' resources. The letter talks about the four-week period for journalists. Here, too, the question is: can the Minister explain what this point offers in addition to the legal guarantee? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK. Slice of ice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u76	Slice of ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u77	That's what I hear. That's very cold. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u78	Mr. Chairman. How often does it happen that you get hit in a way that doesn't match, that you hear someone speak and that all the senses are open? That moment occurred to me on 8 February 2017 during the debate on the drag law. That's where I heard him speak! He spoke as Mozart composed: every word, every tone was just hit. The words descended upon me like raindrops in the desert. That coherence of content, recitation and authority; there stood someone! As the Spaniards would say, there's someone standing there with cojones! Solid as a rock. Like Mozart, he took his time: 75 minutes. It was a beautiful political symphony. I do not agree with the 20 amendments he has tabled. Those were masterpieces in themselves. I was thinking, "I want to, I want to, I want to get into politics." I want to be a Kees, too. I wanna be a Kees. Je suis Kees. And still when I think back... goosebumps. Mr. Chairman. So Kees was my example. Kees was my hero. Kees embodied the intransigence against, as he said: the mirage in the desert, against the deception of the people. But what was my surprise? All of a sudden, Kees isn't against that tow law anymore. Ever since D66 was in the government, Kees has been in favor of the tow law. What happened to this man? How could someone who fought that tow law suddenly be in favour of that tow law? How can my hero suddenly be a villain? And that he's from D66, the Democrats 66 is symbolic. After all, that is the party of eel politics: slipping and sliding, diving and turning. Mr. Chairman. Now to the outcome of the referendum. What has the government done with the outcome? Flute adjustments to give the impression that citizens have been taken seriously. But the minister and I know better, and the people at home know better. There's a clear result. A result in which a majority of the Dutch indicated that they would say no to the drag law. For they, just like Kees once did, have great objections to unlimited tapping of information by the services. They have major problems with keeping privacy-sensitive data for three years. They do not want the Dutch services to share their data with foreign services. But these objections are not taken seriously by the cabinet, just like Kees's objections in 2017. And the changes made by the cabinet are explanations; they contain no guarantees at all. For the poor adjustments, as far as you can say, are shaped by policy rules. This is the lowest form of regulation that can simply be changed at a later stage. My question to the Minister is therefore: why are the amendments not designed by means of a legislative amendment? At least that gives guarantees. Mr President, I will conclude. DENK asks the cabinet to respond to the main objections to the drag law and to take the Dutch's voice seriously. Firstly, there is no longer any possibility of unfocused tapping of groups of citizens. Two: a substantial extension of the Review Committee on Betting Powers, which is now a three-person committee on the subject. Three: no exchange of unjudged data from Dutch citizens with foreign services. Finally, make sure that the supervisory authority can impose an ex post obligation on the services to stop illegal activities. Mr President, I will conclude with: case closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u79	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u80	Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, both during the referendum and after the referendum, it is clear that the Intelligence and Security Services Act is a necessity. As far as the CDA is concerned, the General Intelligence and Security Service and the Military Intelligence and Security Service must be able to deal with threats, including digital threats, for our national security and for the interests of our armed forces in the shortest possible time. The international security situation has deteriorated. It is necessary to recognise and act on early threats. And the threats towards the Netherlands are also increasing via the digital road. There are also people coming from fireplaces that we are worried about, towards the Netherlands. We need to be alert to that, too. If we want to get ahead of those risks, our intelligence services can't be behind. That's why the law is a necessity. Mr. Chairman. The CDA thanked the Cabinet for a swift response to the outcome of the referendum. I also note that, prior to 21 March, the various parties involved in the debate were not tired of stressing that it was really time to modernise the powers of the services. They were also confident that the intelligence and security services would do so with care. A no to the law should therefore not be seen as a no to the law itself but as a plea for amendments. Whether or not the cabinet takes that result seriously enough is a blow in the air. The only thing we can see here today is that I agree with what Mr Bishop said about whether we believe from our political point of view that it has been done properly. We do not know exactly what the electorate had to say to vote yes or no. As far as the CDA is concerned, the Cabinet's letter confirms in particular that it attaches great importance to the early entry into force of the law. That is what the CDA Group agrees with the cabinet. We also welcome the fact that the cabinet has looked at the feasibility of its proposals when writing down its weighting. The intelligence services must also be able to work with what we can get out of a discussion. We therefore ask the Minister to take that point of feasibility into account in the evaluation and to consider it by then when she comes up with proposals, as she says in the letter, to amend the law. As far as the CDA is concerned, our services must be able to do their job in order to keep the Netherlands safe. This is evident from the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber. The law enters into force, the cabinet has weighed and the CDA can support that weighting. We therefore wish the intelligence services, who are doing very important work for all of us, every success in their implementation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u81	Wait a minute, Mr. Van der Molen. Mr Martin Bosma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u82	Sorry I was late. Mr Van der Molen is, of course, right that we should not really start to interpret the result, such as: the opponents wanted this or that. That's very difficult and not up to us. But there is something very simple, namely that voters are asked to be for or against the law. That's a very simple, binary choice. We then have Article 11 of the Consulting referendum, which says that a proposal of law should be tabled as soon as possible, with the sole aim of repealing the law et cetera. That's not gonna happen. There's just the law, and it says there's got to be a new law that repeals the law. But that's not happening right now. What does Mr Van der Molen think of this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u83	I agree with what Mrs Buitenweg has just said on behalf of GroenLinks that it is up to the cabinet to weigh the result. That is a difficult task, because you also have to look in a way at what the electorate has wanted to say about it. For the CDA, it was important for the law to enter into force. I note that the cabinet is now proposing that the law should simply enter into force from 1 May. We as CDA are very positive about that. Hence our support for the cabinet proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u84	No, no, we shouldn't be weighing. The cabinet shouldn't weigh. The cabinet simply needs to do something very simple, namely respect the law and implement it. The Wrr, the consultative referendum, is still valid. Article 11 simply says: come up with a new proposal of law to repeal this law, the Wiv. That's what needs to be done. That's just the law. It's very simple, isn't it? Surely the CDA can't be against the Minister and the Cabinet complying with and enforcing the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u85	It is up to the cabinet to weigh up the outcome of the referendum. I told you once again to weigh it. It is also politically weighted differently. It is important for the CDA that this law can enter into force. That's what the Cabinet also informed the Chamber by letter. We can support that. It is an advisory referendum, so it has no automaticity, but it must always be politically weighted whether the cabinet goes far enough or not. That is precisely the problem, and that is what I am saying to Mr Bishop after the referendum law, as we know it now, and why it is good to repeal that law, which is now being discussed in the First Chamber. The political weighting we have here brings back that process every time, a kind of political discussion instead of expressing the electorate's wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u86	Finally, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u87	How did Mr Van der Molen get to the word "roads"? That doesn't say anything. That's what he invented himself to pull up a smokescreen to make it as complicated as possible and say: yes, there's a smokescreen now; it's very complicated, so let's just look at the cabinet. No, no one should weigh anything. It's just very simple: the law has to be implemented. Article 11 does not say "roads', but "come up with a repeal law'. That's what it says. This cabinet simply needs to implement the law very simply. That's all the cabinet has to do. All it has to do is repeal that law, because that is what we voted on. Most of the participants in those elections have said "repeal." Isn't that very simple what needs to be done? Don't weigh anything, don't weigh anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u88	I do not share that view with Mr Bosma. This would be contrary to the consultative nature of the referendum. If it were corrective, the voter would have made a final decision. I can only say that if I weigh it politically, the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber on behalf of the Cabinet, in which she states that the law may enter into force, is in line with the position of the CDA. That is why the proposal is supported by the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u89	I was just cited as being all over the CDA camp. I must disappoint Mr Van der Molen, because I do believe that the amendments should be in force at the same time as the law. Isn't it really weird to just go through with the law if the changes aren't in force yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u90	At least I saw Mrs Buitenweg staring at me when she made a number of comments about the CDA, so I did not have the impression that she was in my camp. She asks me if I agree with her that the law should first be amended. Politics must weigh up the government's reaction to the referendum. For us as a CDA, it is important that the law can pass. That's important to us. Mrs Buitenweg can also look in the cabinet's letter to see if there are any changes in the barrel. They are in this letter, but they follow very quickly on the entry into force from 1 May and also on the evaluation in two years' time it is a fairly short period............................................................................................................................................................................................ Again, the CDA can support the cabinet's letter, so we'll just take that with us. I do not consider that to be the case with Mrs Buitenweg, but that is the political assessment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u91	I am trying to understand how Mr Van der Molen feels that the 'no' votes are being taken, because what guarantee is there that all these changes will eventually be made? Isn't it just logical to say now that we are taking everything together, the changes and the entry into force? What is against the law coming into force a little later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u92	I have said once again that it is a blow in the air anyway to know what the precise arguments have been to vote for or against. We can only get a picture of that. In any case, I note that the interpretation of what the electorate has said often fits seamlessly with what political parties themselves have found throughout the process. So you have to come up with a weighting and weigh yourself politically whether you can support that letter or not. Once again, the CDA believes that the law can enter into force and can also support the letter from the cabinet, especially in terms of the workability to which the cabinet has paid attention. That is a different weighting than Mrs Buitenweg makes, but it is something that the CDA can support. And I can only speak for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u93	The voters have said no. This law will enter into force on 1 May. Can Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA, tell us which article is being amended, which letter is being changed and which comma is being changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u94	In his letter, the cabinet proposes that proposals be sent to the Chamber rather soon after the entry into force on, for example, the section of the weighting notes. That is the whole discussion about when and on the basis of which data, unevaluated if necessary, can be exchanged with foreign intelligence services. There will be a change to that. Mrs Buitenweg also made a point. What has been adopted with the Recourt motion is the principles which, I think, can be supported by those who are in favour of it and those who are in favour of it. Like Mr Van Raak, we will also hold the Minister and the Cabinet to the execution of the letter they sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u95	So the changes are: a motion that was already adopted last year, I think that's pretty good, that that's a change and a weighting note that should have been done by now? It's nothing. It's a mess. It's less than nothing. However, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Molen and the CDA warmly on the victory, because they have ensured that Mr Buma's words are respected: no matter what people vote, we do not care; the government does not care at all. We just throw the "no" in the garbage can. The CDA won. There hasn't been any change in the law at all. Exactly what the CDA wants. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u96	You may respond, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u97	Yes, I do not want to respond so much to the congratulations, but I started by saying: both before and during and after the referendum, the CDA has taken a consistent position on the law. I share this consistent attitude with Mr Van Raak, because at least I expected, whatever the outcome, that Mr Van Raak would be dissatisfied before, during and after the referendum. That is usually Mr Van Raak's attitude in this kind of debate. In this respect, we are equally consistent on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u98	Mr Van Raak is going to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u99	Yes, because there are MPs here who feel more representative, who feel called to express their opinions and who are also willing to discuss their views with the people. Yes, I do. The CDA's point of view is: voters can go to hell; we don't care about you. However, I would ask whether Mr Van der Molen really believes that he should take my measure here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u100	No, I commended Mr Van Raak for his consistent attitude. These congratulations towards the CDA sounded quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u101	Let me get on with that. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van der Molen on his consistent attitude. It was: we don't care what the people want, because we're just gonna do this. That is what Mr Buma said here, the leader of the Christian Democrats. I find that "democrats" difficult in combination with what he said. But you told me at the beginning, Mr President, that the government must interpret what the electorate meant. Perhaps that is not so complicated, because there are, of course, a lot of bodies that can advise the government. I can imagine the Minister saying: I do not know very much about it myself. But there have been a lot of bodies, I say to Mr van der Molen, through the chairman, who have all said: 'Don't. It's too dangerous, too privacy-sensitive. It does not guarantee fundamental rights." There was almost no agency that said: you have to enter it like this. What do you think of the advice from all these agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u102	I would not like to repeat the debate during the referendum. In that I have indeed seen that many different organisations took a stand. There were also organisations that were in favour of the law. Just take a look at the part of the medical records. During this discussion, the position was taken at some point, including by the doctors, that the content of the law was reassured. In that respect, you saw from different sides different insertions. It always comes back here, in the House of Representatives. We will always have to weigh it politically. I also take into account the comments made by the organisations. The only outcome for the CDA is that we consider this law to be so necessary that we can support it that it simply enters into force on 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u103	Then I have to conclude that you say: the necessity of the law is so important that I do not take the people and the voice of the people next to me, nor do all those bodies that have advised me seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u104	Mr Azarkan can interpret exactly what the voters who voted no have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u105	Yeah, so "no"!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u106	It is precisely in a consultative referendum that you have to weigh that up. There have been many different arguments. So you have to go all the way back and make a political assessment here in the Chamber about what the government's response should be. Your opinion is that the government's response is inadequate. The opinion of the CDA Group is that what the cabinet proposes is workable for the intelligence services, and that the law can enter into force. That's just what the CDA cares about. It is true: the safety of the Netherlands is such a heavy issue that we think that you can also draw a principled line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u107	Finally, Mr. Azarkan? No? You don't have to. You're thinking. Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u109	I now give the floor to Mr Azmani on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u110	Mr. Chairman. On 21 March, a majority voted against the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Unfortunately, because for the VVD, this anti-terror law is essential to keep our country safe. We have had a careful debate on this law in this House as elected representatives, after which the law was passed by a large majority of the Chamber. However, a consultative referendum was then held, a good right, by the way, as long as the instrument existed. However, the VVD regrets that some ghost images have been used in the campaign of the opponents, starting with the incorrect qualification given to this law, "the drag law." Because it isn't, and I keep repeating it. Anyway, it's clear that some of our people are concerned about this law. The cabinet now wants to respond to these concerns. That there are concerns, my party understands. For it is not for nothing that we have fought for sufficient safeguards in the law to protect citizens' privacy as best as possible. I would therefore like to ensure that the law becomes unworkable for the services. No one benefits from a cramped implementation organisation that is stuck in work instructions and paraphrases. I therefore call on the Minister once again to do so before the referendum in order to make this an explicit part of the evaluation of the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. I would like to get a commitment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u111	I refer to the qualification that the opponents would actually have run a campaign full of falsehoods. I remember a debate I had with the Honourable College in De Balie, where he said that the opponents actually wanted a security service that would go with lances and spears at the enemy somewhere that would shoot back full of mortars. How do you qualify? Was that really a good, adequate representation of what GroenLinks, Bits of Freedom or Amnesty International said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u112	When it comes to those organisations or parties, that is not the right qualification, but there are more opponents who also think differently about this law. I am pleased that a number of parties, including in this house, have found and believe that this law should be modernised. But as far as I am concerned, it is the frame that has been used, namely that these services would lay down a net somewhere to see what kind of data they will find. Imagine if the services would be interested in my place of residence, in Oudleusen, and therefore drain all of Oudleusen; that's not how the services work. The services do not have that capacity either. It is based on a concrete research mission. The haystack must be kept as small as possible to find that pin in it. I think this is a much more real picture than the picture that was described, namely that the services would just explain a network somewhere and tap something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u113	It is a pity that you did not listen very carefully throughout the debate, because it has been said quite precisely that there should be changes in the law and the modernisation was very much welcomed by many people. Especially in the last debate, for example, the final debate, with the chairman of the CDA and the leader of the VVD, enemy images were easily sketched. As far as I am concerned, those who were in favour of it were very easy to get rid of, and often had to go past the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u114	Perhaps, unfortunately for Mrs Buitenweg, I was able to experience this the other way around when I was watching that debate. I do not want to challenge Mrs Buitenweg again to go to the interrupting microphone, but I am not so surprised that Mr Van Raak is questioning Mrs Buitenweg's input, because in that same debate in De Balie I understood from Mrs Buitenweg that she believes that there should be no eye-interception at all and that only in that area should there be a specific target. Now I notice, also in the piece that GroenLinks has put forward in recent weeks, that GroenLinks is getting rid of it again and appreciates "as focused as possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u115	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u116	Finally, I will say that the GroenLinks repair law was not a proposal for amendments, as we tabled a year ago. This was an attempt at constructive opposition, in which we would make constructive compromises: a compromise on my part and hopefully also on the part of the coalition. You now see that as our position. That is a pity, but this does explain why the current commitment of the cabinet is a compromise. I had hoped that you would see it a little more as I mentioned it, namely a compromise, in which we did our best to get out of the original starting blocks and go a step further. It's a shame you want to turn us back to square one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u117	It is not my intention at all to turn Mrs Buitenweg back to square one. In any case, I am pleased to see that she is prepared to propose a compromise on the position after the consultative referendum, with a result which is also in Mrs Buitenweg's favour. I will continue with the proposed amendments, Mr President. The VVD welcomes and welcomes the fact that we are looking at the countries with which we exchange data. No Dutchman will benefit if sensitive information ends up in places where people we don't trust are. It is therefore necessary to check whether the receiver is reliable by means of weighing notes. The VVD welcomes the fact that the transitional period is apparently no longer necessary for the services and that this year all weighing notes are ready. Can the Minister confirm that they are already ready for the main countries with which our services are already working? And can it confirm that nothing stands in the way of the exchange of information with these countries in the face of an acute threat such as an attack? In the opinion of the VVD, the retention period should never impede a carefully constructed investigation. At the same time, information should not be stored for an unnecessarily long time. In the opinion of the VVD, the proposed solution, the interim review of whether storage is still necessary, has largely met both conditions. Finally, the research mission-oriented interception. I have already said that this is wrongly referred to as a towing net by opponents. Let me say it again: with a dragnet you dribble the whole sea to dredge up random fish without cause. The services work very differently. They know what kind of fish they are looking for and in which part of the sea. They just don't know exactly which fish they're looking for. So this law regulates that, when less heavy resources are not sufficient, the means of so-called eye interception may be used by the services. This should not be allowed to happen, but only when there is sufficient reason to steal a potentially dangerous fish from the school. I think it is right that the outcome of the referendum should be used to reaffirm that the towing network does not exist, so that people trustfully allow our services to do their important job and work to keep our country safe, so that we can live in freedom with all of us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u118	Thank you, Mr Azmani. Then I will go to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u119	There she is: the Minister. The Minister, who not only misinformed the Chamber and the population by withholding essential information, but who also wants to press the abolition of the referendum in a bizarre way, without prior publication in the Official Journal, in violation of all the principles of good administration and of the rule of law. I cannot stress enough how shameful and unacceptable this is. "An assassin of democracy" is already mentioned by the minister sitting there. When it comes to abolishing the referendum as soon as possible, all the principles of law that D66 is always so full of are apparently overwhelmed. I therefore call on the members of the First Chamber, following the example of the various professors who have recently been there, to take their duties seriously as members of the Chambre de réflexion and to intervene to ensure that this careless, unjust and undemocratic intention of D66 Minister Kajsa Ollongren does not happen. The referendum did not bring what was expected of it, according to the cabinet. Why not? Then why is that? Clearly, the referendum is getting better and better. The turnout is rising and the Dutch electorate is becoming increasingly familiar with the democratic instrument. And that is precisely why we are in such a blazing hurry to abolish the referendum. It is precisely because the referendum is going so well that people are so afraid of it. As death, the cartel parties are in favour of the opinion of the Dutch people. They are dead because their power, their position, their jobs and their perfide agenda, which systematically undermines our national state, our home, our Netherlands, including through mass immigration and European unification, can be stopped by the referendum. In fact, because all this, so their power, their project, will be stopped by the referendum. In the country, we see the power of the cartel crumbling. Local parties who have obtained sample zeges, such as Rotterdam, Tilburg and Barendrecht, are also excluded by the cartel parties at all costs. One must and will push through one's own agenda. So the referendum must now also depart as soon as possible. That is the background to the shameful practice we observe here. Everything is set aside for this. That is truly shocking to see. 6.7 million voters voted on 21 March. A turnout rate for the referendum of no less than 52%. The majority of voters voted against on 21 March, but also many more people voted blank than usual. Of course, that is also a good signal to point out that you think the referendum is important as an instrument, but perhaps you do not have a strong opinion on this particular point. A majority of Dutch voters have thus voted against the D66-Minister Ollongren's tow law. But in advance, the Minister made it clear that he would ignore the will of the people. In her letter she writes in accordance with the Advisory referendum Act to consider the outcome. But this is not in accordance with the Advisory referendum Act. This is even contrary to the Advisory referendum Act. For I shall quote Article 11, and then allow the interruption to take place: 'If a referendum has been irrevocably established to have resulted in an advisory decision to reject it, a proposal of law aimed solely at repealing the law or regulating the entry into force of the law shall be submitted as soon as possible.' There are no more flavors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u120	I suggest you finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u121	That's good. With her proposals to respond to the electorate's objections, we are now once again in a situation of laying down goat paths, as Minister Rutte called it. And the Dutch voter is the goat. We want the government to stick to the law just like it did after the Ukraine referendum. Come up with a repeal law or, if necessary, let the law enter into force. If you do not want to listen to the voice of the people, just come out for it. Do not hide behind chatter about inserts, adjustments, weighing, doing justice to the concerns of the counter-voters and other nonsense arguments. Adding incubating to jury: that's what the English say about this. Ollongren not only humiliates the Dutch by ignoring their "no." She also gives them a hell of a kick by not admitting that honestly, but with transparent lies like "to consider the objections" to a smokescreen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u122	Mr Baudet says "there are no more flavors in this law." Other speakers have already said this. It is a sort of automation to put forward a proposal for the repeal of the law in a "no." There is also Article 12 in the Act, which applies to the Intelligence and Security Services Act, which entered into force on 1 September 2017. In any case, this automation is not included in Article 12 which applies to the law. There's something else in there. That's essential. It says that it is "decided as soon as possible whether a proposal of law will be submitted." It also states: "Our minister who is concerned will inform the States-General as soon as possible about the government's decision on this matter." Did Mr Baudet know of this taste in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u123	No, that's another point. That's another point. This is not about what needs to be done with the result of the referendum, and that is what we are talking about. This debate is about what to do with the outcome of the referendum. That is what Article 11. That has two tastes, namely saying yes or no and also as soon as possible. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u124	It is true that I mentioned paragraph 2 of Article 11. Paragraph 1 of the Article states that this Article may apply by way of derogation. My simple question was whether Mr Baudet was aware of this part. I think what he's saying is just not right. Where Article 12 has been applicable to the introduction of this law, that is also the case. That means that the cabinet has more room to consider. That is why it is appropriate to consider the matter at the moment and there is no automaticity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u125	No, that doesn't matter. It is very simple: if there has been a referendum and the threshold has been reached, then the government must first say yes or no. That's the whole point. That's what this is about. It's very binary, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u126	Yes, that may be binary, but that is indeed decided at the end of Article 11, which refers to a proposal for withdrawal or a scheme for the introduction of. I would like to support Mr Van der Molen in this. Next, Article 12 is a further development of a system of introduction. Does Mr Baudet agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u127	As far as 12 is concerned, that follows first a clear, clear decision to put forward or communicate that you are ignoring the result of the referendum, that you are not going to repeal the law. That is the point that the government is always trying to avoid, not only now, but also two years ago, with the Ukraine Association Treaty. Of course, Article 12 is that you talk to each other. You can do that again later. In the evaluation period provided for by the law itself, you can also plan in all kinds of ways and so on. I understand all that, but first Article 11 must be respected, and that means that the government must say yes or no. My point is that she always doesn't want to do that, to save the cabbage and the goat. She doesn't want to say honestly that she's not gonna rescind the law. That is what the referendum was about, and this point is always avoided. They want a home run without running all the bases off the baseball field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u128	Let's get back to Article 11. That does leave two possibilities. Based on the outcome of the advisory corrective referendum, you either withdraw the bill or submit a proposal on how you intend to introduce it. For this purpose, Article 12 should be used; the details of how to submit such a regulation on the introduction of such a legislative proposal. I urge Mr Baudet to rethink that legal line. The cabinet is perfectly capable of pleading for itself. But that, in my heartfelt opinion, offers excellent opportunities to make that assessment and to make efforts to address the concerns, even though we do not know if we have had all the concerns. In fact, Article 12 serves the last part of Article 11; the way in which it is introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u129	My point remains the same. All this could be the case, after it has been said first whether or not the electorate's wishes are respected. That painful point is always trying to avoid the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u130	The coalition is trying again with smokescreens and with the help of the new referendum fan, Mr Bishop, to diffuse things a bit. But Article 12 is about: if it does not delay many and when it relates to international treaties. There is no question of that at all with the Wiv, because there can be enough delay. There's no time pressure. Article 12 shall not apply at all to this Wiv. Does Mr Baudet agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u131	In fact, this interruption is an answer to Mr Bishop. I don't have to tell you, but I already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u132	It depends on the word "total," but I broadly agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u133	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u134	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Since the old law on intelligence and security services came into force in 2002, a lot has changed, including the introduction of the smartphone. But there have also been many new threats to our society. Our security services must be able to guarantee our security. Not only ours, but also our military on mission. It took a new law. The new Intelligence and Security Services Act extends the powers of the security services on the one hand, in the interests of national security. On the other hand, there are safeguards against this in order to protect the right of a personal domain, a domain where the government must remain outside. In the legal process, the Christian Union has been committed to strengthening the supervision of the work of the security services. That backup has arrived. Finally, the Christian Union concluded that the balance between privacy and security in the bill was sufficiently guaranteed. So we supported the law. Following the rejection of the referendum, the cabinet is now proposing a number of changes. These changes can count on the support of the Christian Union. They are in line with our commitment to the debate on the creation of the law to use the powers of the services as specifically as possible, to assess annually whether it is necessary to keep the data obtained for longer and also with our commitment to sharing data with foreign services and to get the weighting notes for all this year. I do have a number of questions for the Minister. The cabinet proposes that the adjustments be given a place in policy rules. A number of policy rules are also transposed into legislation. Policy rules initially bind the administrative body, but citizens can also derive claims from policy rules. In order to achieve this, it is necessary that these policies have been properly made known, and that they can be found in an easy way, just like the law itself, so that citizens can learn about them. This also contributes to legal certainty. Will the Minister ensure that the policy rules are as easily found as the law itself? I ask the Minister when these policy rules will be ready. Then there is the matter of supervision. The Schouten motion (34588, nr. 57) has resulted in more money being made available for monitoring the work of the services. Investment has been made in the capacity and expertise of the supervisor. Can the Minister confirm that the supervisor is adequately equipped to effectively supervise once the law enters into force? We will also have to include this point in the evaluation. I would ask the Minister to pay particular attention to this. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union attaches importance to the early entry into force of the law and asks the Cabinet to send the amendments to the Chamber as soon as possible. Can the Minister indicate the time limit for this? Mr. Chairman. I should like to conclude with the following comment. It's an important law, a law for which we need a lot of attention. That is why it is good to evaluate the law after two years. The Christian Union will always keep a close eye on the balance between privacy and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u135	Mr Segers, the chairman of the Christian Union group here in the Chamber, said before the referendum that if you vote against the drag law, you are also guilty of future attacks and that you have a lot to explain when something so terrible happens in the Netherlands. Now, on the day of the referendum, 3.317.496 people have said no to this drag law. Are all these people a part of the blame if something terrible happens to us? Do all these people have a lot of explaining to do, according to the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u136	I don't think a law can protect us from attacks alone. The law can help us to ensure national security, to contribute to national security and to monitor where the threats come from and to see how we can prevent attacks. The law can contribute to this, but cannot fully prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u137	No. Try to answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u138	Here's the answer. You imply that the words that had been said indicate that a law could prevent the attacks. I wouldn't go that far. The law is necessary to give the services powers to contribute to our national security. The law is also needed to put safeguards for privacy opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u139	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Finally, Mr Verhoeven has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u140	Thank you, Mr President. On 21 March, 49.44% voted against in the consultative referendum on the Wiv. With that, the opponent has won the majority. With the high turnout of more than 50%, it is a valid advice, which the cabinet had to deal with. The key question with such a result is: how do you interpret it and how do you do it right? That is all but simple, because the voter has not spoken with one mouth, but with millions of mouths. In fact, there are 3.122.628 reasons for the law and 3.317.496 reasons against the law, each with its own feeling, background or argumentation. I saw that not only in the polls and the analyses afterwards, but I also saw it in the debate rooms where I stood during the campaign over the last few weeks. Mr. Chairman. Take all these different and nuanced expectations together in one review. That's very difficult. As difficult as that may be, I believe that the government succeeded in doing so with last Friday's cabinet letter. For in the cacophony of informed and less informed opinions there are two clear main lines to be discerned. First of all, many voters and many voting against want a better law. Two: that a number of concerns keep coming back. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into this, a brief review of this law. In early 2017, the law was passed in this Chamber with a large majority of 114 for and 36 against. There was also a large majority in the Senate. D66 voted against at the time, because our concerns were not sufficiently taken away. During the formation we therefore made additional agreements with the coalition partners. Those agreements in the coalition agreement made that for us the Wiv went from an insufficient to an adequate. They gave us, but also the supervisor, the confidence that the law would be in balance. Then came the referendum. We have tried in those rooms to convince the electorate of our position. That was not possible, but I am glad that the cabinet listened to the opinion of the electorate after the referendum. Mr. Chairman. The concerns I heard a lot in the debates on the Wiv were first of all the size of the cable interception and secondly the sharing of data with foreign services. This is followed up by legislative changes aimed at making the interception system as targeted as possible and regulating data sharing with foreign services more tightly. In fact, this makes the agreements in the coalition agreement law. In addition, the retention period is shortened by a policy rule from three years to one year, with extension options, and journalists and medical data find more protection in implementation practice. Mr. Chairman. Since early 2017, the Wiv has shown an upward trend. D66 considers and supports the cabinet proposals as substantial and robust. We look forward to the legislative changes. The independent evaluation in two years' time will of course remain unchanged. D66 will continue to monitor this important law in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u141	I cannot emphasise enough how much this approach by Kees Verhoeven and a number of others that the no vote should be interpreted is contrary to the referendum law. That is exactly what we heard when the association agreement with Ukraine was voted down. That is why I would like to hear from Mr Verhoeven where, according to him, the referendum law states that it is our job to interpret the 'no' vote. Doesn't it just say that the cabinet should say "yes, we respect the result" or "no, we're putting that result next to us"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u142	This question has now been raised a number of times. I think it has just become clear that there are two possibilities in Article 11. It is then up to the Cabinet to give substance to these two possibilities. The cabinet does so by announcing in the letter that it will come with an amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u143	Where does it say that it is up to the Cabinet to give effect to these possibilities? Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u144	This is a repeat of the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u145	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u146	It is a repetition of the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u147	Yeah, yeah, but that's fine, too. Mr Baudet is very much looking for the cabinet first to say "we are withdrawing the law" or "we are confirming the law." In my opinion, the cabinet clearly stated in the letter that there would be no repeal law. So this law can come into force. That's just what's written in the letter; that's all anyone can read. There will also be changes to that law. That is in accordance with the referendum law. This is a way of acting according to the referendum law on the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u148	No, because it says in the letter that in accordance with the referendum law, the results will be implemented in a variety of ways. That is not in the referendum law; that is contrary to the referendum law. The referendum law is binary. The referendum law says either you say to the people "boys, we listen to you" or you say to the people "unfortunately, we ignore you." One of the two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u149	It's gonna be a bit of a repeat of moves. My position is that the way in which the cabinet now implements the result of the referendum and which it has written in the letter is in accordance with the referendum law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u150	Then I'll go to Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u151	The letter with the proposals we have seen comes from the cabinet. Mr Verhoeven is part of the coalition. Can he tell me if there is room for amendments? Or am I wasting my time here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u152	No, no one's wasting their time. Since the beginning of 2017, we have discussed this law extensively with all kinds of different political parties at different times. It is precisely this discussion from the very first moment that has ensured that this law has been kept under constant review and that there are therefore amendments to this law. What is then done by the Chamber in the legal process is not up to me. It is certainly not for me to say whether there is room for that either. I'm very curious about the way the cabinet is going to put these things into law. We shall wait and see, and there will be a debate in the Chamber. Then any group can act as it pleases. I can assure Mrs Buitenweg that everything she does will always be of added value in a certain way. That has also been shown in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u153	Can I therefore ask whether the D66 Group considers it important that there should also be a change in terms of better monitoring of data requested by third party security services?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u154	In a debate on the outcome of the referendum, in which the cabinet states how it intends to deal with the outcome, in which it announces that there will be a change in the law and that it is a fact that it will be dealt with in the Chamber, I do not think it would be wise to anticipate what might be brought into that debate by different groups. I should wait and see what the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance comes up with. I have, by the way, taken note of the GroenLinks repair law. I don't think this part is in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u155	Sure you do!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u156	Okay, then it's in there. So I'm gonna wait and see what GroenLinks comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u157	A question to Mr Verhoeven. Does this law mean that we need to be more careful about what we are looking for on the Internet, what keywords we use and what we say and what we think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u158	No, I'd say not. I believe that this is also one of the misunderstandings that has often arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u159	That's weird, because I read...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u160	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u161	I was just answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u162	Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u163	So I'm gonna finish that. All kinds of things have been highlighted by the opponents in the sense that the services will now look in all our emails and in all our WhatsApp messages. None of that is on the table. There is a law which lays down a number of new powers for the services. These powers are covered in a variety of ways by all kinds of safeguards, with constant emphasis on the fact that the services are writing down very well and explaining exactly what they want to do and why they want to do so. Then the Minister of the Interior and/or the Minister of Defence will have to see if they will give their consent and then there will be a committee of review that will give its consent. If you have such a system, which I do not think is so carefully designed internationally by any country, then I do not think it is right to say: we have services here that are going to look at all our mails and our whatsapp messages unfocused. That's just not the issue. That was not mentioned in the 2017 law, which was certainly a number of concerns, and that is still not on the agenda. So the answer to Mr Azarkan's question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u164	That is extremely interesting, because I would like to quote from an interview with Mr Verhoeven's sister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u165	Huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u166	He put that online himself. He says, "I've been able to convince my sister about this. All terrorists who have committed attacks in recent years have already been on lists and have been known to the intelligence service by old-fashioned investigative work. It didn't help. If the tow law is applied, those lists will be longer and we will all be on it, Grandma sure, but none of that will help. Most terrorists, even those on no-travel lists, then simply travel by train or car. The only consequence is that you and I need to be more careful what we say or think or look for." You published that yourself. I asked about that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u167	There's been a misunderstanding. This is not an app message from me to my sister that I quoted or that I published. This is an app from @Boris from The Next Web, who wrote it to his sister. He put that online, and I responded to it. So there's been a misunderstanding here. Not I published this, but @Boris published this and then I debated it with him on Twitter, because I thought that was something to be desired. But this is an example that shows how very misunderstandings can lead to all sorts of fears among the population, which are therefore absolutely unjustified. The fact that Mr Azarkan is throwing me a tweet or an app from my sister that I would have put on Twitter, while that is not my tweet at all, is of course difficult. If you are going to make such an argument about the way in which I conduct politics and then stand here on the interrupting microphone and then tell them that I have apprehended my sister and that I have put it online, when I have not done so at all, I think it is right that you should look at the facts later on. Because that is ultimately very important in this debate and I would really like to be able to have this debate on the basis of the facts. The law has been changed on a number of points in the last year and a half, by the use of all kinds of different people, and this law will not allow all kinds of messages we send in our private environment to just lie on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u168	The difference is that I can test this with you, so you can straighten this out right away. The disadvantage of this legislation is that people will be bugged on the basis of information, based on algorithms, and that they will not be able to defend themselves against it at all. That is one of the fundamental problems of a lot of agencies that you said in February that this violates the fundamental rights of citizens. This law has not been complied with at all and you say it goes from a 6 to an 8. The question is, then, who will at least test this information in that sense? Who's to assume that's not gonna be easy to trace in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u169	It's all clear in the law. This is tested by many instances at all kinds of different times. What I said during the debate in 2017 is that there are a number of concerns that D66 had at the time about some parts of the law, some of the powers that this law gives to the services. One was that the cable interception was described in a certain way by the cabinet. I said: write "as directed as possible" in the law. That was one of the most important proposals made by D66 to ensure that the interception of the cable, that new power, would not go far too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u170	Then I'll go see Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u171	No, Mr. Chairman. I'm still working on it. At the time, the Minister had already denied that this would be the case. We then said in the coalition agreement that we would not do that. And then people still said, "That's great, Mr Verhoeven, but put it in the law." I had to put that in the law. Only then was it really good, because otherwise there would be other governments and so on. And now we're going to put that in the law, so that actually takes away a very large part of the concern in the law. I see that as a profit too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u172	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u173	May I finish, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u174	Well, don't finish; you may ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u175	Yeah, okay. I understand that effort: you have to make a great effort to look for it. But my conclusion is that it remains an effort. That is extremely difficult to control; so does Mr Verhoeven. It is incredibly difficult to control if you do not set any standards on the basis of which you then meet those requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u176	Very clear standards have been set. First of all, the law states that it must be proportionate. In other words, the means must be in relation to the purpose. Secondly, it must be subsidiary, so it must only lead to the objective; there can be no lighter means. And it must be necessary. Those were the three general touchstones that are already there. And now it becomes even more concrete by saying: do it as directed as possible. That means that the services have to write down what they're going to do at a time when they want something on the cable. And if they do that in a way that is unconvincing, which doesn't clearly explain why they're going to take such action in relation to the target they want to get in the picture, then the minister will say on the basis of the law: I don't do that. And if the Minister gives permission, then the TIB, a college of three people, two judges and someone with technical knowledge, will say to the Minister: you have wrongly given permission. If both matters continue, the CTIVD, the ex-post supervisor, will always be given the opportunity to check everything the services have done. They're sending reports to the Chamber about that. The Chamber can then debate this. Moreover, D66 has always said that this point, so supervision is well regulated. We have always said: you need to tighten up the law on parts so that supervision is better able to enforce the law. Those are the things that are going to happen. I do know that in 2017 I also raised a number of issues that I had concerns about. But from that moment on, I have kept working to improve those points. You can say that perhaps I should have done this in a different way, with a less noisy approach: that will be. But from that moment on, from 2017, I've been trying my best to get that law better, and we're getting two legal changes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u177	Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u178	Mr President, I was actually faced with another question here, but I would like to touch on what Mr Verhoeven has just said about the supervision of the TIB. So the supervision is now being organised with two people instead of three because there are not enough people to meet the demands of these people. The TIB is now manned by only two people instead of three. The proper organisation of this so-called supervision, which D66 is so proud of, is therefore not well equipped at all and does not comply with the law. Does Mr Verhoeven not agree with the Animal Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u179	I may have missed a very recent development, but I think there are just three people sitting on that review committee. For that one place for the person with technical knowledge there were two candidates. In a nomination, the Chamber unanimously elected one person, who now sits on that committee. In this way, the committee will indeed consist of three persons, namely two former judges and someone with technical knowledge. In any event, the review committee is manned in the manner described in the law. That's the information I have. Maybe something has happened recently that makes things different, but I think there's just three people sitting on that committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u180	Mr Verhoeven says that this was unanimously supported by the Chamber, but at least it was not supported by the Animal Party. They've also made a note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u181	Okay, excuse me for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u182	Let me now turn to the question of what I stood for here at the interrupting microphone. The Minister spent seven weeks on the CTIVD's report. That report was adopted on 7 February. I have the report here in my hand and that date can be seen on it. If you calculate, then March 21, the day of the referendum, is exactly six weeks later. On 28 March the Minister sent the report together with her response to the Chamber. What does Mr Verhoeven think of this and does he want to reflect on it? Has this had any effect on the outcome of the referendum? Didn't the citizens want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u183	Whether it would have influenced the outcome of the referendum, I do not know and no one knows. That is an unknown fact and I should not reflect on it either. What I do know is that I think there have been 56 CTIVD reports since the CTIVD did this work and that there is always a six-week response period. This is a time limit that the cabinet has always respected fairly well in recent years. I believe that the deadline after which this report came out was about as long as the deadlines for all the reports that have been published in recent years. There was one report I believe the MH17 was involved in, which really had a much longer term. Furthermore, the average term was always around 50, 60 days. The same applies to this report. How that went, I don't know. Perhaps the Minister, who also wrote a letter to the Chamber on this matter, will be able to say something about it. I do not have the impression that this was done to influence the outcome of the referendum in one way or another, but that is my explanation of the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u184	Mr Verhoeven says that there are enough safeguards in the law, including with regard to the sharing of information with foreign services. This report and its conclusions indicate that there are not enough safeguards for privacy and the sharing of information with foreign services. It also states that we would have liked to know. Does Mr Verhoeven and the Animal Party consider that perhaps the Minister could have made a part of the report known or that she could have made a more urgent effort in view of the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u185	Yes, the Minister could have done that. I don't know what happened before that report came to the Chamber. I really shouldn't go into that. Furthermore, it is particularly important to note that all the reports that have been issued recently with all kinds of recommendations are almost always taken over by the services and that they are taken very seriously. So they also make sure that there are improvements in practice if the services in a number of parts may not act entirely as the supervisor would like. This will also apply to this report, which was established under the old law. So I think it's just an understatement of the power of supervision we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u186	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes and then the Minister can answer the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u187	I would like to inform you that we shall suspend the sitting until 8 p.m. So after 8:00 p.m., the Minister will answer the questions of MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u188	We will continue the debate on the outcome of the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u189	Thank you, Mr President. It was an excellent idea to have a dinner break first. I wouldn't have looked at the clock properly, because I actually wanted to keep going. First of all, I must say to Mr Van Raak that Mr Rutte would of course have liked to be there. The same goes for the Secretary of Defense, Ank Bijleveld. Both are traveling. That is why today it is up to me to stand here on behalf of the cabinet. But I'd be delighted to do that. Here's what I'm gonna do. I would first like to give a not too long introduction, hopefully, to put everything in context. Moreover, some of the questions will be identifiable to the members of your Chamber. Then I will answer the remaining questions in order of the speakers. That seems to me the most appropriate in this case. There are, of course, a number of bigger points, for example, about the entry into force and that sort of thing, but you will hear that. So I'll start with an introduction, if you don't mind. It has already been recalled by some, even to the exact figures: 49.44% of voters voted against the law in the consultative referendum, and 46.53% in favour. 4% voted blank. That's the results. This means that a majority voted against. A significant minority voted in favour. Perhaps that also reflects exactly the tension that is also laid down in the law: the tension between security on the one hand and privacy on the other. What was special in this case, in this consultative referendum, is that friend and enemy agreed on one thing, namely that there is a need for a good, new, modern law on intelligence and security services. But there were concerns. There were concerns about its content. After careful weighing of the results, the cabinet has decided to amend the law in the short term by clarifying the safeguards provided by the law on parts and limiting the scope provided by the law by a number of policy rules. It has always been considered that the law and the measures we are proposing must remain workable for the services. In my opinion, the amendments do justice, in our opinion, to the outcome of the consultative referendum, while at the same time being workable for the services who need this law in order to do their job properly in the interests of the safety of the Netherlands. That is why the cabinet intends to bring the law into force on 1 May, as previously foreseen. In doing so, we are thinking of expressing the fact that the old law dates back to an old age, the time before the billions of smartphones, from before all those anonymous Wi-Fi hotspots. We now live in a time when vulnerable young people in the Netherlands can be reached in a mouse click from Raqqa, at a time when people in other countries, who do not want to invent their own products, do economic espionage. They don't do that by physically traveling here, but by fiber optic cable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u190	I see you standing, Mr. Van Raak, but I want the Minister to keep her introduction. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it is our responsibility to recognise real threats to our society, even if they are through communication, through new technology. Time changes, the world changes, and we change with it. I think we should do the same. If you'll allow me, I'll have a brief historical exhibition. Some members have just looked back. Because when adjusting the Wiv 2002, the current Wiv, we didn't go ice cream over one night in the Netherlands. It all started in December 2013, when the Dessens Committee presented its report. The subtitle of that report was: looking for a new balance sheet. The conclusion of that committee was to make the powers, including the interception powers of the services, technologically independent, from the ether to the cable. The committee also had an important point at the time, because she said: if you do something about the powers on one side of the balance sheet, then you also have to do something about the guarantees on the other side of the balance sheet. That was the starting point of the discussion, even here in this Chamber. This eventually led to a legislative proposal in July 2015. That went into internet consultation. 1,100 responses were received. That's really a lot. The social debate has already begun. It shows the interest in this subject, not only here but also outside this Chamber. Following the internet consultation, a number of important changes have also been made, such as a binding ex ante test by the independent TIB, the review committee. It wasn't foreseen at first. Further changes have also been made in connection with the discussion here and with the social debate, such as the obligation of care and the additional criteria for cooperation with foreign services through the weighting notes, which I shall now come to. This ultimately led to both Chambers agreeing to the law with a large majority. The referendum on 21 March therefore gave an opinion to the cabinet. That no vote, which can and will not ignore the cabinet. At the same time, we have also tried to do justice to a large share of the yes vote in our weighting. Hence the proposals we have made. The proposals are based on three new policy rules. This will improve the control of information sharing with third countries. We will make a weighting note for each country this year. Without that weighting, we don't share the information anyway. Following on from Mrs Buitenweg's question, I will come back to some more precise parts of this. In addition, we have said that we ask the CTIVD supervisor to include this in its reports. We said there would be no automatic retention period. We're gonna check every year to see if any information can and should be kept. The Minister is asked for permission to do so. Instead of three years standard, a further request for authorisation shall be made after one year if necessary. Therefore, where no consent is obtained or where no consent is requested at all, it will be destroyed. We have said that the data should be collected as precisely as possible. This is taken into account and is explicitly taken into account whether there is a breach of fundamental rights of third parties. Any request for permission will soon have to account for the effect of the commitment on the life and privacy of others than a target. The use of powers should be as focused as possible. That's gonna be part of the argument. This is laid down in a policy rule and then in the law. This is also in line with a wish of the CTIVD. We have said that there are additional safeguards in the implementation practice for sharing information about journalists themselves. If the services establish that a journalist is present in the data collected, they will not share that data with foreign services unless national security is at stake. This has not been explicitly mentioned and is new in relation to the previous one. We also want to leave no doubt about medical records. This doubt had perhaps arisen in the social debate on the way to the consultative referendum. If the services encounter medical data which they are not allowed to see, they will delete it immediately. This is now explicitly mentioned. So that too is new compared to before. The CTIVD also supervises and reports on this to your Chamber. Finally, in this list, the Eye Interception. It is virtually excluded, we have written in our letter, that in the coming years eye interception on the cable will be used for research into communication with origin and destination in the Netherlands, with the exception of research in the context of cyber defense. When acquiring data via cable, the emphasis is placed on movement to and from abroad. The moment you do research in the Netherlands, there is always an alternative use of sources, observation or, in other words, lighter means that can be used. Until the review of the entire law in two years, the CTIVD will be invited to monitor it and report on it after one year. We will also ask the TIB to report on this in its annual report. I have just listed the six points, three of them in the policy rules and two of them back in the law. Policy rules and safeguards are binding and binding. They will enter into force together with the law on 1 May. They watch for a multitude of things. I'm not going to list them again. It is important that the whole, i.e. the policy rules, the legislative amendment and the safeguards, are all involved in the evaluation that will take place in two years' time. The results of the evaluation can again be taken into account in a subsequent legislative amendment. It is therefore important that we use these two years to gain experience with these new powers and with the new safeguards. In conclusion about this part of my story. We have concluded that the consultative referendum has shown a number of concerns in society. The discussion was not so much about whether a new, modernised law was needed. I think that is what most people think is necessary, because safety and technological change require it. At the same time, people really needed more certainty, for example with regard to targeting. That confidence is what the cabinet wants to gain by responding to the concerns. I have heard a number of times in the outside world that it would only be about cosmetic changes. Some MPs have repeated this. I hope you have made it clear in my speech that I do not share that view. They're substantial concessions. They are changes that also mean something in practice. The purpose of the letter received by the Chamber from the Cabinet is to underline that. At the same time, we do not lose sight of safety. We also want to bring powers into line with the countries around us. That's what the law is about. We are convinced that with these adjustments and with the early entry into force we are doing justice to the outcome. Mr President, I would like to comment on a number of specific points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u192	The Minister says two things that can't be both true. She says that the Netherlands has said no to this law and that the cabinet wants to meet it. The cabinet doesn't want to ignore it and even want to do it substantially. At the same time, she says that the law will be introduced on 1 May. I asked the Minister what article will be changed by 1 May. What letter or comma will change the law on May 1st to do justice to the no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u193	Mr Van Raak pointed out that a legislative change would take time. He's right about that. But I have just said that when the law enters into force on 1 May next, the three policy rules mentioned in the letter and the safeguards in the implementation practice will also apply. This means that what is announced in the letter does not have to wait for the legislative amendment. The law, which we have all been waiting for for for some time now, the vote has already been taken over a year ago, can then simply go in, but dressed up with the new policy rules and the new guarantees provided by the cabinet with this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u194	But with all due respect, that's bullshit, isn't it? What the hell? We're getting a weighting note that we agreed on a long time ago. The secret services are going to look as closely as possible. Yeah, I've never met a secret service that's gonna look as unfocused as possible. This new intention of the Minister was recorded in a motion last year. Then we have a retention period, which is reduced from three years to one year, plus one, plus one. I think that's three, too. It's all not substantial. But that's not the point. The question that lies before us during this debate is not whether it should be a policy note or what we all think of it. It's not about what Mr. Van Raak thinks and what the minister thinks about it. The essence of this debate is that the Netherlands has said no to this law and that the Minister is now telling us that the law will enter into force on 1 May, without changing an article, a letter or a comma. Can the Minister confirm that, or does the Minister deny that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u195	I have just said that the cabinet has carefully weighed the outcome of the consultative referendum and, therefore, has indicated it. The question of the referendum was of course about yes or no, because that is how an advisory referendum works. But the debate that has taken place in our view was not really so much about the question "do you think there should be a proper law for the intelligence and security services?', because most Dutch people do support it. The question was if he was good enough. At this very point, on the three main points of discussion, this letter responds to the concerns of Dutch people. Over the head of Mr Van Raak I also address those people who were concerned and for that reason have said: we do not yet have sufficient confidence in it. The cabinet says, "We heard that right. We think the law is important for the Netherlands, for the safety of the Netherlands. The services need these powers. On the other hand, however, we want to tighten up policy rules for implementation practice and safeguards in implementation practice. They will begin on 1 May, simultaneously with the entry into force of the law." A number of these points are therefore to be incorporated into the law in the short term, for example that focus. That is a point that came back regularly in the debate. I've noticed that myself. When I finally said "yes, of course it's the intention to work as focused as possible," I often got back: "yes, but it's not in the law." Exactly that point we are going to anchor in the law, so that that concern can really be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u196	Mr Van Raak, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u197	The central issue in this referendum on the drag law was the towing net. The Netherlands is okay with our secret services following potential suspects. We love that. That's where our secret services did a good job. But the Netherlands does not want mass information from citizens who have nothing to do with anything. That was the central discussion in the campaign and the Netherlands said no to it. That's not gonna happen on May 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u198	Indeed, Mr Van Raak knows that the cabinet has always been of the opinion that is also stated in the coalition agreement and in the letter sent by the cabinet that there can and should be no such massive collection of data. That is not the case either. That is why the letter also emphasized that it is about eye-interception. We all know the jargon here. Interception on the cable is used for research into communication with origin and destination outside the Netherlands or from abroad to the Netherlands. It is not really about processing data with origin and destination within the Netherlands. We ask the CTIVD to make sure of that. In addition, we lay down in a policy rule and subsequently in the law that it should be as targeted as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u199	In policy rules and then in the law. I'm just trying to look at it from a legal point of view, disregarding the content. The law will therefore be introduced on 1 May. That is just the law that we know and that we talked about last February after 75 minutes, Mr Verhoeven. That law is just being introduced. Besides, he's being changed, if I understand correctly. In addition, there will be policy rules, and these policy rules will also be incorporated into the law. Do I have them all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u200	Mr Bosma says it almost right if he turned the order around. Two things will happen as of 1 May. The law is being introduced. I shall go into it in a moment on the basis of which article that happens. And the three policy rules in the letter will apply from 1 May. On the day when the new law enters into force, 1 May, the intended date of entry into force, the policy rules will also enter into force. The policy rules can be implemented more quickly than a legislative change. On two points on which the cabinet announces a legislative change, we will start with that. I expect we can have a law change at the Chamber after the summer. But the policy rules, which see exactly the same thing, are already in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u201	Are the policy rules those six points mentioned in the Minister's letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u202	It is three of the six points mentioned in the letter "the first three," for the gourmet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u203	Which brings me right to my question. The letter states that the first and third policies, i.e. both the weighting notes and the most targeted use of powers, will be transposed into a legislative proposal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u204	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u205	This does not apply to the second policy rule, the adjustment of the three-year retention period. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u206	I'll come back to that later. I understand that question very well. We have said that practice, as it will be in the policy rule, will become commonplace: one plus possibly one plus possibly another. So there's no three-year automatism. Those policy rules are binding. So the services are sticking to that. The reason why we haven't put that into the law is that we're doing an evaluation in two years' time. On a number of points, including this point, we would like to gain experience in practice in order to assess whether what we then want to anchor in the law is either the codification of the policy rule or that we have discovered in practice that we may have to adopt slightly different deadlines. So we just want to gain experience in policy practice. If, after that evaluation, it turns out that this is actually the right way, then we codify the policy rule. Should it be said from policy practice that the retention period should be shorter or slightly longer or that more frequent consent should be requested, we will keep that option open. Then we can take into account the outcome of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u207	That evaluation is going to look into whether the law is working and then there can always be legislative changes. So that doesn't answer the question why, like number one and number three, also number two is already converted into a legislative amendment. If that evaluation shows that it is not working properly, you can always change the law at that time. Now it is actually chosen to leave that number two hanging over the market, because it may be that it is mandatory for the services, but it is not a rule that just goes through parliament neatly. I think it would be wiser simply to turn all these policies into legislation, because one of the criticisms of the law was that sometimes political promises were made but that they were not enforceable. So just put everything in that law. Then the Minister will always be able to look at what needs to be adapted, but at least it will be regulated by law and not by a way that only the cabinet can reach, namely those policy rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u208	To begin with, we are now talking about the whole issue, including this policy rule. Mrs Buitenweg says it is not enforceable. Perhaps that is so in the sense that your Chamber cannot amend the policy rule, but the policy rule as such is indeed enforceable. Services must comply with the policy rule. You will all simply take note of the content of the policy rule; it will also be made public. It is therefore enforceable. The other two policies are focused on the focus, which has also been noted earlier that it might be good to anchor them in the law. So that's exactly how we're gonna do it. The weighting notes ditto; we also bring forward a deadline, because we shorten the previous transition period. Actually, we're halving it; it's even more than that. The cabinet therefore thinks it is a sensible choice to put this into the law right now. About the retention period, we say that's how we're gonna do it. You can count on that, too. It will also be monitored that it is. So you'll just get reports about that, but we thought it wise to gain experience in the implementation practice to see if this will also be the exact way in which we're going to anchor it, or if we want it even more tightened or if we think the implementation practice shows that there's a little more room in it. But for the duration of the "two years plus," as long as the evaluation is ongoing, we use this practice: one plus one plus one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u209	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u210	So this is actually kind of a test promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u211	No, it's more than that. A policy rule must simply be followed by executive services. They have no freedom of policy in that. Thus, the policy rule dictates implementation practice, but with it we have the opportunity to involve the results of the evaluation in the final legal anchoring, which is simply announced in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u212	However, what about these policy rules: does this mean that these policy rules can also be changed by a minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u213	Yes, policy rules can be changed. Laws can also be amended. This cabinet says we're gonna do it like this. Those policies apply until they are amended, but you can of course trust that what is in this letter, the evaluation and the legislative amendment that has already been announced, will be our line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u214	I would just like to point out that there is a difference between a policy rule and a law, but the Minister states that they can be changed. I was familiar with that. I have one more question. Does the Minister consider that the outcome of this referendum has added value to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u215	I have argued before, but I would also like to do so here in your Chamber that the cabinet defended the Wiv 2017 as it was. We have been committed in the campaign to convincing people of the added value of the law. We also said that we were confident that, on the basis of the law as it was, we could not only improve security in the Netherlands, but also saw enough safeguards about privacy and the concerns that people had. At the same time, we have seen that the outcome of the referendum indicates that we have not been able to remove those concerns and that there are people who have voted against them for miraculous reasons, which will also have been many different reasons. That's what we wanted to meet. We have made a number of proposals for this. Then you could argue that these proposals, which we have just passed by, produce a better result on balance, because we think it is necessary to gain the confidence of the people who still had concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u216	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u217	So I'm supposed to conclude that a referendum makes a profit for a law if you put everything side by side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u218	This has been an advisory referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act. This is a law that the supervisor has said is workable and in balance. However, the CTIVD also said that there was still room for improvement. I note that we are now coming up with a number of proposals which, in our view, make the law better, but it was workable and balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u219	I would also like to come back to the policy rules. They are indeed binding and enforceable. The services must follow them and the supervisor can monitor them. But citizens can also derive and claim rights from it. I have just said that we think it is very important that these policies are also well understood by citizens. The Minister has just indicated that the policy rules will also enter into force on 1 May, as will the law. Can the Minister promise that the policy rules are as easy to find as the law, for example on the government website? In this way, people know what they are up to and can derive a piece of legal certainty from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u220	It is good that Mrs Van der Graaf points that out. The intention is to make the policy rules public. I think they're also published in the State Journal, if I'm not mistaken. It seems to me very good to make the whole thing coherent on the various websites that people could consult, for example those of the government or the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u221	I think that's very good, because not everyone has a subscription to the State Journal. So I think it would be very good if this was made widely available on the websites.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u222	Yes. We agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u223	I would also like to come back to those policy rules which will enter into force on 1 May. The minister says they're enforceable. But when I look at the first policy rule, which is about sharing information with foreign services, I see a number of criteria that are very arbitrary. What is democratic or how do you know if a service is reliable or professional? You can test that in a lot of ways. It says that as a country meets these criteria less, the AIVD and the STIVD are more reluctant to exchange sensitive information in order to prevent it from being used in an undesirable way. But what then is "less", "residual" and "sensitive information"? You can make anything out of that. To what extent is this really a guarantee?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u224	That's actually two questions in one. Mrs Arissen's questions relate to the law, not the policy rule. The fact that we are now incorporating something into a policy rule does not change the fact that we have always said that this is about the deadlines in which the weighting notes must be there. As long as they are not there, we do not share information with other countries. Indeed, the weighting as such is concerned with democracy, human rights, the professionalism of services, data protection and so on. I would also like to say a few words about this, because Mrs Buitenweg has also asked a question about this. I'll leave it at that. This is what we can say to each other in public. So that determines the extent to which you share information or not. That is what these criteria are for. They're not new. They were already part of the law before we sent this letter and before we said we were going to tighten it up in a policy line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u225	I have to conclude that the vague framework in the law and the vague possibilities of scrutiny are actually being brought forward. The weighing note is previously made with the same vague conditions. So the Minister sees that as an additional guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u226	The law provided for a transitional period of two years. That's what we're saying: we're not gonna use it. We'll make sure there are weighting notes this year. We have also said that there is no sharing of information if it is not there, and that is also a tightening-up of the practice envisaged. If Mrs Arissen thinks that matters such as democracy, human rights and data protection are too vague, then she probably felt that this was the case when she discussed the law. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about the date of entry into force of 1 May. Several members of the Chamber had questions about this. An interruption debate also showed that it was indeed about the application of the article of the law. Let's get back to it: the Wiv 2017 "The Law of July 26th of last year "" has already entered into force, at least in part, namely on September 1st, 2017. At that time, the procedure laid down in Article 12 of the Advisory referendum Act was applied to the entry into force. That article gives the power to regulate the entry into force of a law while ignoring the legal deadlines set by the Advisory referendum Act. So Article 12 looks at an urgent procedure. It was applied by the previous cabinet. Why did the previous cabinet do that? That was because the review committee had to be set up. So as of 1 September 2017, that part of the Wiv 2017 entered into force. Then the High Colleges of State and the Chamber began to do their job. They have made the selection of the members of the review committee. Given that Article 12 of the Wrr had already been used for the entry into force of that part of the law, we will now proceed with Article 12. Article 12, second paragraph of the Wrr provides for laws to which the urgency procedure has been applied and for which a negative ruling has been reached during the referendum, which will decide as soon as possible whether a proposal for a law is to be submitted solely for the purpose of repealing the law. This means that the government has the possibility either to submit as soon as possible a legislative proposal aimed at repealing the law, the cabinet has not opted for it or a Royal Decree will enter into force. That's what the Cabinet chooses. Of course, the Chambers will be informed about this decision. The Cabinet has chosen to do so and will take the decision to draw up a Royal Decree which will facilitate the entry into force of the other provisions of the Law, i.e. not the part already in force, but the remainder of the Decree as from 1 May next, again with the application of Article 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u227	I would like to thank the Minister for the clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u228	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to a number of other questions, in order of the speakers as far as I am concerned. Maybe I will go into Mr Van Raak's question first. He wanted to know on which parts exactly the law is being changed. Mrs Arissen also spoke about this. I have just mentioned the issues, but the precise articles of law are Article 29, second paragraph, which lays down requirements for requests for consent. It is added that a request for consent should specify how the requirement of accuracy is to be met. This is where the motion-Recourt is applied. That justification should also provide for the justification of the orientation. The second amendment will deal with Article 166, which regulates the two-year transitional period for the preparation of the weighting notes, as has already been discussed. It is provided that they must be ready by 1 January 2019 and that no information can previously be exchanged without it. Mrs Kuik asked whether the review committee had sufficient human resources to carry out its tasks properly. That's the case. It is the Prime Minister who is responsible for this. The TIB consists of a chairman and two members and is supported by a staff, a substantive secretary and a deputy secretary. The president of the TIB is himself responsible for the secretariat and has ensured that this is now available. My predecessor in the First Chamber has promised that we will also evaluate the TIB in two years' time, so that happens of course. Then the TIB has been able to gain sufficient experience. I would like to say, also because of Mrs Kuiken's concerns, that it is good to look at it when in the meantime it appears that the current occupation is tight. Then we won't wait for the evaluation. The Prime Minister is in contact with the President of the TIB and then the discussion can also take place if necessary. Mrs Kuik also asked whether the extension of retention periods, according to the new policy rule of a plus one plus one, the TIB should or could still have a role. According to the Wiv, the TIB will only be entrusted with carrying out the legality test if I or the Minister of Defence agree to special powers. That's what the TIB is for. This means that it is a test that takes place before the services deploy this competence; first the ministers, then the TIB. That really is a change from the current law and I would like to say: an improvement. The focus is on the legality of data acquisition. The extension of retention periods does not process any new data, so it is less likely to invest that test with the TIB. It is true that the CTIVD has access to all the information available from the services. In our view, therefore, the CTIVD is well placed to monitor precisely this. Mrs Arissen still had the question of whether there are sufficient safeguards for privacy. In my eyes, there are. It is not up to me to judge that, but it is up to the CTIVD to do so. The CTIVD may give an opinion in the exercise of supervision and in the reports it produces. As a result, the Court can always form an opinion on this. Finally, the evaluation already announced in two years' time. That is also a good time when the independent committee that we receive will decide whether or not these safeguards for privacy are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u229	More questions about the privacy issue have been asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u230	No, I have a number of other points after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u231	Okay. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u232	I had the impression that this was among other things the heading CTIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u233	That was not the case, because I still have a question here about the CTIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u234	Then I suggest you answer that question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u235	An important point, on which Mrs Kuik was the first to ask a question, and I understand that too, concerns the CTIVD report that you have recently received from me. Others have also asked questions about this. I sent you a letter today in which I replied to Mrs Kuik's questions about the fact that this report did not reach the Chamber until after the referendum and what exactly is the situation? We have an excellent supervisor in the Netherlands with the CTIVD. Compared to other countries, too, I think we should welcome such a sound supervisor, who regularly produces critical, comprehensive reports, because those reports keep us and the services sharp. It is customary for me to compliment my predecessor for the fact that the six-week deadline, i.e. the legal deadline for responding to such reports, is also respected. I have been told that there have often been much longer delays in sending responses to these reports. But since the previous period, these six weeks are about to be stopped and there is not much going on. Well, it's common practice that it takes six weeks. In this particular case, which concerns a report on cooperation between services in the field of jihadism or alleged jihadism, a large number of foreign partners are involved. It was also the first time that a supervisory authority has explicitly expressed its views on this intensive and not very long ago started cooperation. I thought it was important to be as transparent as possible and share as much information as possible with your Chamber. I hope you know me the same way. That is why I have provided for rather intensive consultation with these other partners. Despite the fact that this tendency does not necessarily exist in all countries, I have said that I think that the interests of disclosure and transparency weigh heavily. I think this can be done without damaging international cooperation. I have chosen to make the whole public afterwards and therefore not to make any passages unreadable. Well, that's happened once in a while. So this took some time. I believe that the deadline expired on 23 March. A few days later, the next week, I sent you the report as soon as it was finished. I can tell in your words that there are some concerns about it, because of that connection with the date of the consultative referendum. I'd really like to take it away. The report that's there actually sees the current law. So you could also argue inversely proportionate that the report and the findings in the report support the need for this new law. I also included something about this in my letter. Moreover, after the adoption of its report, the CTIVD itself also made public its final assessment of the Wiv. In short, I hope that this will provide sufficient answers to the questions that have been asked about it. I think it is a very important point myself. Once again, I hope that the letter and the reply will now be sufficiently reassuring on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u236	I appreciate the Minister's interest in explaining how it went and why she took those seven weeks, that time. This is what I noticed. In the editing of the document you can see when the pdf was created, namely on 19 March. Then you could assume that at that time it has become a final report. We received the report in the Chamber on 28 March. Can you reflect on how that is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u237	As I've just explained to you, it's over. So first there was consultation with the partner services. Afterwards, of course, there was discussions between the services, with the department and with me about the reaction. Then there was another mention to the partners about how we would deal with this. I can't quite honestly indicate exactly when the pdf file was created, but as I outlined it to you, it happened between February 9th, when the report was presented to me by the CTIVD, and 23rd, no excuse, March 28th, on which I sent the report to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u238	Citizens indicate that they would very much like to have had this information before the referendum on the drag law, on the Wiv. Does the Minister agree with me that this is very unfortunate? The report was adopted on 7 February. You received it on 9 February. The editing then states that the final pdf was made on March 19th. So that's two days before the referendum. What exactly did the Minister do in the last week, which meant that a week had to be waited before such an important report was sent to the Chamber with this conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u239	What we did, I actually outlined to you. I have outlined what has been done from the moment the CTIVD report was received: the coordination with the other partners, the internal coordination, the precise preparation of documents and the finalisation of them, and then the information of the partners about what we were going to do with them. That's all I'm gonna argue with your lecture. If you say it's true, it will be. I'm not fighting that at all. I think it is important to say that I want the reports to be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible. I want to be as transparent as possible about things that the services do. Mrs Bijleveld and I have chosen to make the tap statistics public. That was somewhere well before the referendum. Another report from the CTIVD, the report on bulk data obtained, which is also a critical report, I think I sent to the Chamber a week or three before the referendum. If you put it in that context, you may see that it is my ambition to inform you as best you can and to be as transparent as possible about the work, given that sometimes the work does not lend itself to transparency. It will always be my endeavor to share the information I have with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u240	But there was a referendum coming up. The Minister received that report on 9 February. That didn't come as a thunderbolt in the clear sky, because the Minister knew a long time ago when the CTIVD would come up with reports. This was also announced. So she could have said to all those partners: friends, there is a referendum at the end of March, so let's put the turbo on. Instead, this minister has accepted it. She has leaned back and said: well guys, we're gonna talk a little bit more; a little partner this and a little partner that. Why didn't the Minister simply choose to go ahead on 9 February or in January, again, because the Minister was able to move forward much earlier, given that the referendum was coming, and it is so important that the citizens know as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u241	Mr Bosma is right: we are all aware of what the CTIVD is going to investigate. They publish that on their own website. In that respect, it was public information. The CTIVD is of course about its own timing of its reports. As I said earlier, if you are now campaigning for the new Intelligence and Security Services Act, you will see that the findings of the report support the fact that the new law was needed in that respect. I'd rather have it involved. But care comes first, too. Once again, my aim was to ensure that the others would agree that we would simply send this information to the Chamber without painting it or otherwise giving it. I'm very glad you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u242	These partners will all be very important, but in the Netherlands something is even more important, namely the citizens. We never, ever have, except once, a referendum on the secret services in which this plays an important role. The minister was shining on TV. There she was telling all things that you can say afterwards: she could have said things differently if she had involved the CTIVD report. So I'm gonna ask the question again. Why didn't the Minister call on the partners in January and say: happy friends, pay attention; there's a referendum coming, so you're going to react very quickly, because I want that information out by the end of February? That would have made sense, wouldn't it? I thought there was a referendum coming up. That didn't just come out of nowhere, did it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u243	No, but in consultation with the partner services I have focused on ensuring that, in the context of this report and the findings of this report, we see that cooperation in particular. It is new and not in every country supervision is organised in the same way. I would also say that it is not as well organized in every country as it is here. Nevertheless, I thought it was important to be able to make this report public. The CTIVD is about her own planning. Nor do I think that the CTIVD took account of the fact that when the report was issued on 9 February, it went exactly beyond the referendum date. Again, that was not my concern at all. But it does support the idea, my belief that the new law offers additional guarantees on this very point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u244	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u245	Why didn't the Minister say in January, knowing that the referendum is coming, to these partners: hurry up, because there will be a referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u246	I have just explained that I felt the most important thing was that I could share the findings of this report with your Chamber. The consultations with the partners, the other countries, started from the moment the report was presented to me on 9 February. There's a six-week legal deadline. Thanks to the previous period, this is a time limit which the cabinet is trying to comply with. Before that, we went way over it. Even now it's not like six weeks, but almost. The referendum was indeed in the middle of that. But again, I wanted to share the information with you as transparently as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u247	Those six weeks aren't a minimum. Let's establish that with each other, because it's used every time as an excuse: it couldn't have happened sooner, because it had to pass those six weeks. That's not true. We could have done it in five weeks. I want to make that clear here, because it is being used as an excuse and it is not right. Your second argument is: I needed time to consult with the foreign services. Then I would like to know when the last contact with the foreign services was, all the more so because the Minister has finally chosen that graces her to forward it unchanged. This once again raises the question of whether this could not have been done earlier, because that contact with the foreign services did not depend on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u248	Mrs. Kuik is absolutely right about the six weeks. It's not like we have to make it through six weeks. But if you look at the reports from the past few years, experience has shown that the cabinet has always needed about six weeks to respond to the reports, but no longer. That is good, because that is an improvement on the practice before it. They are all special reports, because they all see special aspects of the application of the law and the work of the services. This specific report was about cooperation, which has been stepped up, which is special and which is actually still under development. That's what the report says a number of things about. The report also mentions the safeguards required in the CTIVD's view. I felt that this consultation was necessary, as I felt it was necessary to put it correctly, to bring it back into line between the services and to share the outcome with the fellow services we worked with. That is what the deadline has been used for. It lasted six weeks. This has gone beyond the date of the referendum. That wasn't the point. That date actually happened to be in the six-week period before that. It's a common practice. Again, the result is: the report unpainted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u249	I still have no answer to my question. My question was very simple when the last contact took place with one of those foreign services. I understand that happened somewhere in those six weeks, but I want to know exactly when. Why is that so important to me? Because the minister was still on TV just before the referendum. It was very specific about privacy and about sharing information with services. If you knew in the back of your mind, this report will get over it one more time. Many people follow the debates, are already very critical, are very cynical and trust in us is not always very great in the outside world. So this report a week after the referendum feeds cynicism. That is why it is so important to find out whether what you are saying here is true. That is why I repeat my question: when was the last contact with a foreign service?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u250	Then I repeat my answer. Mrs Kuik was the first to ask this question and I am really trying to outline the process as comprehensively as possible. I did so in my letter and in answering her written questions. I'm trying to outline the process from the moment of offering the report to send to the Chamber. Mrs Kuik says: by sending out after the referendum, you are feeding cynicism. The opposite is my intention, which is not to feed cynicism, but to show exactly what the supervisory authority's findings are and how we can improve them. On this particular point, the supervisor is actually saying that better safeguards must be provided. Well, those better guarantees are just in the new law with the weighting notes, on which we also made a number of tightenings in the letter. I understand that Mrs Kuiken sees the opposite, but I would really like to turn it around and say that the report and the reaction of the cabinet to it support the need for this new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u251	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u252	I have no choice but to conclude. I didn't ask my questions for nothing. The Minister gave me two arguments as to why it was after the referendum. The first was that six-week period. We have just established that that is not a valid argument. What remains is the time needed in consultation with foreign services. I can't get a clear answer on that. So that makes me unable to check whether this is the real argument why it was sent a week after the referendum, and I regret that, because that doesn't help anyone. Not me, not the outside world either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u253	I'm sorry about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u254	Then Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u255	Is it true that the digital version of the supervisor's report was already finished on the 19th? Do you think the Minister could find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u256	The 19th?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u257	March. So two days before the referendum. The minister has a computer and e-mail. Yeah, I do. So I could have had it. Is it true that the 19th in digital version was already ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u258	I think that's what Mrs Arissen just said. I'd be happy to check that out for you, but I told you, I'm not going to fight that any further either. It is about the complex from the moment of offering the report up to and including the moment of sending it to your Room. What had to be done in the meantime had to do with the coordination with our partners, with our internal coordination, also between the departments, and within the department and with the final communication to the partner services what we were going to do. Then it was sent to your room. That's what happened in those six weeks. I have already repeated this a few times, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u259	I understand that the paper version, the printed version, was finished on the day of the referendum or shortly afterwards. But what matters to me is whether it's true that the digital version was ready two days in advance. And if that is so: we don't necessarily have to print a paper version, send it with the mailman and then think, "Damn, it's Sunday, it's Monday, when would that delivery be there in the House of Representatives?'. We all have e-mail. We can all send e-mails. Is it true that the Minister could have sent it on the 19th?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u260	Mr Van Raak and Mrs Arissen say that it seems in the report that the digital version was ready on the 19th. That could be very good. I can't check that out here right now, but if they say that, I'm gonna take it for granted. I have just outlined the complex of factors that led the letter, including the annexes and the report, to go to your Chamber as transparently as possible a few days after the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u261	Finally, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u262	But can't a fresh official who's watching now find out if Mrs. Arissen is right, that the digital version was finished on the 19th? The Minister says: I cannot see that from my position here. But there are all civil servants watching and they are all connected to us digitally. Can't one of those officials find out if what Mrs Arissen says is true?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u263	I'll ask between the first and the second term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u264	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u265	Then I come to Mr Krol. He had a number of questions that were actually about voting on March 21st. The first concerned the accessibility of the polling stations. That is an important point. I have already informed the Chamber before the elections that we are working towards 100% accessibility of polling stations. There is a legal provision that regulates it or that has to settle it. I want it to come in on January 1st next year. I think that is very important for all voters with disabilities. I think we're an end in the direction now. I myself visited a polling room in The Hague where they tried very hard. But the goal is indeed 100% accessibility and we are not yet there. He also asked if the Minister is investigating criminalising political influence in the polling room. It is customary that this time we are also going to do so that elections are evaluated. I will, but so will the Election Council. The Chamber will be informed of this before the summer. I do not want to anticipate that evaluation, but at least no major incidents have been reported to me during these elections. In the Kieswet much attention is paid to the order in the polling room. It is, of course, the legal task of the members of the polling office to monitor that order and to prevent influence. The President also has the means to do so, and he can ultimately bring in the mayor to ensure the rule of law. I think that's good legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u266	Can the Minister give an opinion on the suspension of foreign flags?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u267	Yeah, hanging foreign flags isn't supposed to happen. I know that during another election, a foreign flag was found somewhere. It's been removed, too. That's what I thought happened in Amsterdam at the time. The polling room must have a neutral appearance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u268	And does the Minister believe that this will be known to all the mayors and thus also to the presidents of the polling stations? And what is she going to do about it when that happens again in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u269	No, that's not what's supposed to happen. We will see in the evaluation whether there is still any reason to intensify its publication. In my opinion, this is well known, but I'll keep an eye on it. Mr Krol also asked for checks on the counting of votes. The electoral process is a transparent process. The Tickets Act oversees this, and by the way also the Tickets Act consultative referendum. The plenary session of the polling bureau shall be public. Afterwards, the votes will be counted. That is a public moment; that is what Mr Krol has done, and that is what I myself have brought to the attention of the House. In the end, the voter can state his objections at the polling station. They are therefore recorded in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u270	Thank you. I got answers to my questions 1, 2 and 4, but Question 3 has been skipped for a while. I said that in four polling stations 95% to 99% voted in favour. Well, that's explained by descriptors. I asked whether a further investigation would not be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u271	I think it is right that this should be involved in the evaluation and in the letter I have just announced, which will reach your Chamber before the summer. I come to Mrs Buitenweg's questions. She had another question about the weighting notes. We have just talked about it. Having a weighting note does not mean that everything can be shared. It shall be considered whether the sharing of information is proportionate, whether it is necessary, and conditions may also be laid down for the sharing of information. That's the practice, too. As I said earlier, the degree of cooperation is determined on the basis of the weighting, the weighting note. This means that in practice only the most reliable partners are involved in intensive cooperation. So there's a gradation and an ending in there. The criteria are well known; I mentioned them just a moment ago when Mrs Arissen had a question about them. Democratic embedding, respect for human rights, professionalism and the reliability of the partner service, legal powers and the level of data protection play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u272	I have many questions on this subject, Madam President. The letter states that the less a country meets the criteria, the more reluctant the services will be. "They will be." Is that a requirement now? Is there a criterion that says: if countries actually just perform very badly along the human rights measuring bar, then we are not going to share data with them? Or is it said that with these countries we will "mostly" not share data?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u273	This is a difficult discussion, but of course Mrs Buitenweg already feels the same. You cannot be specific, because information about the weighting note and the precise weighting per country is information that we cannot share in public here in this Chamber. But that is the way you should imagine it. I told you just now that only with the most reliable partner services will you achieve the level of "clear sharing." This means, of course, that the information will also be shared with us by those countries. As countries score less well on these points, on the criteria I have just mentioned, including human rights and democratic values, that will also have an impact on the extent to which you want to share information at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u274	I understand that, and I also understand that you are not going to mention countries, so I am not asking you to, but I want to make this clear. If a country does not perform well along the human rights measuring lab, do we not share information? Is that out of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u275	I find it difficult to answer this question in this way. It concerns a number of criteria. I believe that countries that, for example, do not score well on human rights, often do not score well on other criteria and are therefore indeed not a partner country with which a lot of data can be exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u276	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u277	The CTIVD must supervise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u278	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u279	But what's the CTIVD testing? Because it is not on that country's lap, and it is not sure, for example, whether the dates we have provided are also being passed on to a country called Saudi Arabia. We have our good allies, the British, but before you know it, all the data will be in Saudi Arabia. What role does the CTIVD play to ensure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u280	For the CTIVD it is extremely important that we have now taken this step because these weighting notes are the tool for the CTIVD to exercise supervision. On the basis of these weighting notes, the CTIVD can assess whether the services comply with them, but b also make a more qualitative assessment of the weighting notes on the one hand and then the actions of the services on the other. Without these weighting notes, the CTIVD can do so much harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u281	May I ask a very small question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u282	Well, a very small question. I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u283	Thank you. Isn't it better to let the TIB play a role as an independent tester in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u284	A role in sharing the data. The TIB, of course, sees the use of the powers. We have said: let us report to the CTIVD. In the division of tasks TIB-CTIVD this is in my view more on the way of the CTIVD than on the way of the TIB, which is about the use of special powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u285	But maybe there's still room here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u286	I heard Mrs Buitenweg right. In any case, it will be reported directly to the CTIVD. That's already foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u287	I had already asked a question about this, but the Minister is now giving a slightly different answer to Mrs Buitenweg. So I'd really like to catch up on this. The Minister says that if a country does not meet the criteria, which is less, it is still a little arbitrary in my opinion that intelligence services will be more reluctant to share sensitive information. The Minister says that we will therefore share less with some countries. But how can the supervisor or the intelligence service assess what information can and cannot be shared with a country that does not meet the criteria for exchanging unevaluated data?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u288	The degree of cooperation shall be determined on the basis of the weighting. Unvalued data is not shared at all without weighing notes. Again, I cannot say much about it here in public, but we can imagine that there are countries depending on the weighting notes with which we will not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u289	I can't imagine how that is now a guarantee, because you share unevaluated data with foreign services based on less compliance with criteria. I don't really see a guarantee of privacy in that. Can the Minister go into any more detail?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u290	Certainly, for example, the level of data protection is one of those elements of such a weighting note. If there is any concern about this, then it is important, to put it bluntly, to the extent of cooperation and thus certainly also to the sharing of unevaluated data.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u291	I would suggest that the Minister move forward, because there have been 13 speakers. We also have thirteen groups. They've all been asking questions. I would actually ask the Minister to go further and serve the other Members of Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u292	Fine. Sure, sure, sure. I'm still with Mrs. Buitenweg. He has asked another question about requesting data from third parties. There are actually a number of categories. The services are competent to use an informant. This can be done under the current law, under the new law, but an informant can only be questioned about information he or she already has. It's voluntary cooperation. If the services wanted to ask for more, it couldn't be an informant anymore, but it'd be a cop. An agent may be asked to do something for the service. Suppose the department would ask a cop like that to hack. Then permission must be sought from the Minister. That's a separate jurisdiction. A burden has to be laid on this, the Minister's consent is needed, and the tip is necessary. I think Mrs Buitenweg's question refers to the third category: the possibility of directly automated access to data. This concerns the possibility for services to have direct access, if necessary, to a file of another authority. I see from Mrs Buitenweg that that was her question. This can be done in the case of routine search of databases, e.g. that of the Chamber of Commerce. The services may use that competence for an investigation, e.g. a security investigation or an investigation into a specific person. But it is linked to something that runs towards an individual, to gain access to these kinds of databases about that individual, so not all that other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u293	You're looking at Mrs. Buitenweg,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u294	Since she's at the interrupting microphone, I checked to see if she had a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u295	...but I actually want you to move on. There are other MPs who have asked questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u296	Mr. Chairman. I may have answered this question by Mr Bishop and some others: the amendment of the law sees two points and the other points can only be converted into the legislative amendment after the evaluation. Just before the introduction and within the framework of the policy rules, we have already exchanged enough about this. There are indeed two now, then there are the safeguards and the policy rules that must be applied in practice and then there are the evaluation and also the fixing of a number of other points as announced in the letter. It also concerns, for example, what was agreed in the coalition agreement, namely that it should not be random and massive data collection. Another question from Mr Bishop concerned the exchange of information. I believe that his question was whether the speedy implementation of the weighting notes would, in some sense, also speed up the exchange of these data. The weighing notes shall be prepared in an accelerated manner. Mr Bishop is right about that. The safeguards, as formulated in the law, are strengthened. The time limit for the completion of those weighting notes is more than halved. We've been talking about that for a while. By the end of this year all weighing notes will be ready. And the strict safeguards, which see the exchange of data with foreign services, remain, as was shown just now in the interrupting debate. All this does not necessarily result in an accelerated exchange of data. In particular, it notes that, for example, the CTIVD is able to monitor this and that there is a much faster than anticipated framework for cooperation with other services. Mr Bishop also asked whether the interim renewal of the retention periods was as thorough as the initial authorisation to be granted. In the new implementation practice according to the policy rules, the service must, in order to be able to keep data for longer, ask me or, of course, my colleague from the Defence Department for permission. This can be done up to the maximum period of three years. Of course, such authorisation will only be granted if the services can demonstrate that it is necessary to keep the data for longer. So we're not changing that three-year period, but since you have to re-assess whether it's necessary to keep them earlier, after a year, that will in practice lead to some of that data not being asked for consent. So they'll be destroyed. I would like to add a few more questions from Mr Bishop: the additional safeguards from the Recourt motion, which are laid down in the law. That's what his question was about. The focus of the deployment should now be explicitly described in the application for the use of special powers. That's the innovation from the law as it was. That is why I said something about this in the introduction. If this explanatory statement is not adequate, the infringement of the fundamental rights of third parties will be explicitly taken into account in the requests that the services will make. The TIB is invited to include this in its legality test and the CTIVD is invited to report on this. Mr Bishop asked what was meant by the comment in the letter on the four-week period for journalists and the source. Actually, there are two things in the letter. Firstly, there is the presentation of how it is now regulated by the law, namely that in these cases the court can grant the consent for up to four weeks, and no longer. This is a derogation from the regular three-month period, which generally applies to the use of special powers. Secondly, there is the supplement "that's the passage that sees the journalist himself "that as services in data at his disposal a journalist finds this information cannot be shared with others unless national security is at stake. That's the tightening up. I think that was what Mr Bishop was referring to. Mr Van der Molen of the CDA asked about the feasibility and asked whether the feasibility of the evaluation would also be taken into account. It has always been stressed by the cabinet that this feasibility must enable the services to work with it and that it has been our test. During the AO on 15 March, I said that the implementation of the law as we saw it at the time would be included. Of course, this also applies to the additions. That is indeed an important and rightful point. Mr Azmani asked me to confirm that perhaps I should have just done so when I talked about the weighting notes "that the weighting notes of the countries we work most intensively with will be ready when the law enters into force. I informed the Chamber that we now have the weighting notes for the countries that are also members of the CTG, the Counter Terrorism Group. The letter thus looks at an acceleration of all weighing notes. That's the case. Mrs Van der Graaf had another question about the policy rules, but we have actually already dealt with them. It was then about its accessibility. Mrs Van der Graaf also asked if there was sufficient budget for the CTIVD. The CTIVD budget has been increased by EUR 0.5 million by the previous cabinet. It has thus increased from 1 million in 2016 to 1.5 million in 2017. That is thanks to the motion for a resolution tabled at the time. As a result of this intensification, the CTIVD has sufficient financial space and has been able to attract additional knowledge and skills. For the new Wiv, the CTIVD's total budget has thus reached a higher level of 2.5 million euros in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u297	Mr. Baudet, you were there earlier, but I think Mrs. Van der Graaf would like to respond to this point. It was a question from her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u298	That's right. It is true that there has been additional investment in capacity and expertise and that the Schouten motion has been important in this. The underlying idea of my question was actually based on the final balance sheet of the CTIVD, in which it indicated that it has invested and that it can exercise effective supervision. I asked you to confirm that. However, there was also a disclaimer at least, as I have read it, that the services or, for example, their duty of care with regard to data protection and the way in which the services design their work should be properly organised. This will determine whether the capacity deployed will be sufficient. My question is whether you can indicate whether that is sufficient and whether you want to continue monitoring it. Perhaps you can make such a commitment when it comes to the TIB that if, over the course of these two years, it turns out that it is not enough, you will put additional capacity on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u299	I have just said, in reply to questions by Mrs Kuik about the TIB, that the agreements at the front seem to be sufficient. I said that we have faith in that and that the TIB has confidence in it. The same applies to the CTIVD. But of course it is right what Mrs Van der Graaf says, namely that the CTIVD itself says that it is also dependent on matters such as care obligations and data protection by the services themselves. Progress will have to be made to see whether there are any problems there. In analogy with what I just said about the TIB, I would like to say the same about the CTIVD. I am doing so on behalf of the Prime Minister, who is responsible for both. In case of intermediate bottlenecks and unforeseen situations, consultations can always be held between the President of the TIB, the Chairman of the CTIVD and the Prime Minister to ensure that bottlenecks are resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u300	I think that's very good. We really need to be sure that the monitoring function can be used properly and effectively. We came a long way. Last year the CTIVD brought out very different concerns, namely whether it was able to fulfil its task properly. Steps have been taken and the Minister is going to monitor it. Very good. We'll keep following it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u301	I have already congratulated the Minister on the clarity I thought I could see in his speech and in his work. Now that she skipped my point, as she passed by the various speakers in order, I am confused whether I understood correctly or whether I accidentally complimented her. We shouldn't want that all of us. Will the Minister now submit a bill, under Article 11, aimed at the entry into force of the Wiv, on which the referendum has been, yes or no? It is not entirely clear to me whether this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u302	It is good that Mr Baudet is asking for clarification on this point. I have just argued that because of the application of Article 12, which is not a proposal of law, the entry into force of the law will be by royal decree. That is what the cabinet intends to do, and that is what the cabinet has to do, because under Article 12 of the Wrr a proposal for a law on the repeal of the law would be seen. The cabinet does not choose to repeal the law. The cabinet opts for the entry into force of the law and this is happening at KB, because of the earlier invocation of Article 12 for the introduction of part of the law last September.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u303	I'm gonna go check it out. I'm gonna have to think about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u304	You can always come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u305	Let's see. Finally, one question from Mrs Van der Graaf. Maybe I've already answered it, but I'll do it again. The change of law that has been announced, I want to get to the Chamber as soon as possible. I think it's realistic to expect us to be able to present the bill to the Chamber after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u306	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's second term. Sorry, first term. We are now going to the second term of office. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds. I call Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u307	On 21 March, the Netherlands said no to this law. This law will be introduced on 1 May. I asked the Minister what's going to change. What article of the law is going to change, what letter, what comma? That's nothing. What we have to do is to make butter-soft commitments on as much targeted research as possible, on notes that had to be written anyway, on new intentions based on motions that have already been adopted last year and on retention periods that are not three years, but one plus one plus one. It's not much. I believe that we in the House of Representatives should take the 'no' seriously. We must take our constituents seriously, because we are people's representatives. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in a referendum voters said "no" to the new Intelligence and Security Services Act;]] [[considers that the so-called dragnet function was an important reason for objection;]] [[calls on the Government to present a new proposal to remove the dragnet function from the law before 1 May 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u308	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u309	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. Some of them were satisfied. It is also good to see whether the TIB can also fulfil its function in the future with the capacity it has. The power to decide whether the time limit is from one to two or three years is now in principle with the Minister. Questions have rightly been asked about this. We have been asked how you do that with such a policy measure and who can judge whether it is being properly applied. The CTIVD has a role in that. I would therefore specifically ask that this decision-making power and the role played by the CTIVD or the TIB should be included in the evaluation and also invite the CTIVD to monitor this very actively, because they are indeed operating independently. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I would like to make another appeal. You don't have to like referenda, but they work anyway. So there's still a chance to think. I'd say take that opportunity. Mr. Chairman. One last point, because I do not have any motions in this case. We don't just do things here because they have to. You always have to be even more neat than the rest of them. The same applies to reports. Time limits are not minimum deadlines; they are maximum deadlines. The Minister stands for transparency. Try to pursue that in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u310	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u311	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister for her reply, although she has not been able to convince me that there is no mere cosmetic adjustment. Let me give you one example: the weighting notes. They're supposed to be here by now. And what good is a weighting note with arbitrary, vague criteria? Who, for example, is going to decide which country is democratic enough to communicate unevaluated data from innocent citizens? Does that apply, for example, to the United States? And how long can these services keep our data? The biggest pain point remains: the data can be sent to other countries without being filtered or investigated. The Party for Animals is heartily opposed to that. For example, we have reservations about every policy rule. They don't add much. In doing so, I agree with the words of the SP. We have therefore wholeheartedly signed the motion tabled by Mr Van Raak. Finally, in her second term, I hope that the Minister will be able to return to the document features of the CTIVD report, which states that the report was made on 19 March, two days before the elections. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u312	Thank you, Mrs Arissen. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I think it's just very simple. The Minister must do something according to Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act. If it is found irrevocably that a referendum has resulted in an advisory decision to reject, a proposal of law intended solely to repeal the law or to regulate the entry into force of the law shall be submitted as soon as possible. And that's not gonna happen. There are now six points for improvement, so I shall refer to them all as butter, butter and butter. Either it's happening, or it's a commitment, or it's actually an explanation. At least the Minister has not been able to convince me that this is going to happen so hard. Anyway, we are waiting with regret for an amendment. I understand that's what we're gonna get after the summer. I think it's weird how it went with the CTIVD report. At the end of last year, the Minister knew that was coming. So she could have just sent for that. Nor has the referendum been organised two days in advance. She should have just made sure that we had that, so that the citizens could have known that. I would like to table another motion, because I would like us to discuss that amendment before the Wiv enters. That's much more neat. Then we can look over the whole thing, because we don't know what's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u314	And now the motion, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u315	The motion is as follows, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Minister for the Interior states that he is proposing to amend the Wiv 2017;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow the Wiv 2017 to enter into force until after the amendment law of the Wiv has been submitted to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u317	Thank you. Mr Krol, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u318	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks to the Minister, too. In my first term I talked about influence by hanging a foreign flag. It's not the first time we've heard reports about it. The Minister admits that this should not be done and wants to take this into account in her evaluation. That's nice, but that's too soft. The problem is too serious for it. Hence, as a stick, perhaps as a flagpole behind the door the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas political influence in a polling office, for example in the form of a foreign flag, is unlawful;]] [[Whereas, despite the responsibility of the mayor to provide a solution to such political influence, it still happens time and time again;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether political influence in a polling room, for example by showing a foreign flag, can be punishable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u319	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u320	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u321	Thank you, Madam President. My group still has many questions. They are not all being discussed now, but you will also have noticed that my group would like to seek maximum room for improvement, because that is still necessary. I also hope there's room to do business with the coalition. I do not know what the legal situation is, but I agree with Mr Bosma that it is certainly desirable that all these changes should be made before the law comes into force. I also have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government draws up a policy to adjust the retention period of data so that an assessment is carried out each year, with a maximum of three years;]] [[Whereas this adaptation of practice may be guaranteed by law in the review of the Wiv 2017;]] [[invites the Government to submit any changes to this policy rule to the Chamber before amending that policy rule,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34588-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u322	The aim of this is, of course, to ensure that this second part is also regulated in the same way in the law. I think that this should be done and I find it very strange that this is going through a policy rule first. Anyway, I'll give you that. I have a brief question about the towing net. In the letter, the Minister says that it is virtually impossible that this towing network function will actually be in force in the Netherlands, because there are lighter means in the Netherlands and because there is actually only one access location per year. My question is: what is really the reason why this will be very little in force in the Netherlands? If that reason is that second point, so there is only one access point per year, I am very afraid of the result in 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u323	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u324	We are making laws not only for the next three years, but also for longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u325	Thank you. Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u326	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for his thorough answer. Once or twice, she was a little evasive, but that's how she was. We'll talk about that more often than not. The SGP supports the proposed procedure. That is also because the result was indeed 'no' in the majority, but the number of votes in favour was very close. We are going a little too far to apply the American electoral principle of the winner takes all. I think that this is the way to find a good middle ground. We believe that the referendum law leaves some room for this. We therefore agree with the amendments proposed in the long term and the legal history, which also has the force of law. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u327	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Mr Van der Molen waives his second term. So is Mr Azmani. I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Do you use your speaking time or not, Mr Baudet? No? Okay, I'll go see Mrs. Van der Graaf. She too waives her second term. Then I go to Mr Verhoeven, who also renounces his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u328	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank all the speakers, the Members of your Chamber, for their second term. I'll be passing four motions in a minute, but there were a few questions. I'd like to answer that first. First of all, Mrs Kuik suggested that the role of the supervisor and the possible role of the TIB should be included in the evaluation of the retention periods of one-plus-one-plus-one. I think that's a good suggestion and I'm happy to say it. I welcome her call for transparency to be maintained and for careful consideration to be given to this issue. That is exactly how I intend to perform this function, so: of course! Mrs Arissen mentioned the still cosmetic changes she felt. I regret that that remains her judgment. Because that instrument enables the supervisor, for example, to monitor the weighting notes properly. In my view, that is crucial. Mrs Arissen also asked Mr Van Raak to do so in the first period, and I had already promised Mr Van Raak to go into more detail on the CTIVD report number 56. I do that very briefly, in a fly-by. The report was adopted by the CTIVD on 7 February and presented to the Minister on 9 February. The fact that the CTIVD was working on this was public information. We were all aware of that. From 9 February, the legal term of six weeks will run. Then you come out on March 23rd. I have just explained in detail what happened in those six weeks. Perhaps in abundance: what we then offer to the Chamber is the report with a policy response. Both pieces play a role in this. What I have just figured out in response to the comments that have been made on this issue is that the CTIVD, at the time when the policy response is being worked out by the departments and the services, prepares a version with a designer, which is standard in CTIVD reports that can be published at the time the report is presented to the Chamber by me. It is this pdf in the format of the CTIVD which, as shown by the document you can see, was made on March 19th and also changed on March 23rd. This is evident from the technical data contained in the document. This is important, because it is a report from the CTIVD. The report, the format and the changes to the report are therefore from the CTIVD and not from the ministers. The policy response, on the other hand, is ours. Checking with the CTIVD shows that the digitally formatted version was offered to my department on 23 March. That document is an integral annex to the policy response which I sent to your Chamber on 28 March. I hope this was exhausting enough. Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions. Mr Bosma referred again to Rule 11. But I have just argued that, in this case, Article 12 of the Law on the Consultative referendum was used by the previous cabinet last September. This cabinet is now consistently doing so because of the introduction date of 1 May. Finally, I come to Mrs Buitenweg's question on the application of the Hoge Interception in the Netherlands. She asked what the real justification is that we do not expect it to be applied in the Netherlands. This is entirely due to the fact that you cannot actually imagine a situation in which there are no lighter means to use it. So it's very unlikely that anything would happen that would lead to the use of this drug. The explanation of the so-called access points is more to illustrate how it will work in practice. To the extent that people expect this to be applied on a large scale in any case, I say that it is technically very complicated and not necessary. So it is not foreseen that that will lead to more than one such access point per year. I also regret that Mr Bishop felt that I was not direct enough on a number of points. I'll see to it from now on, Mr. Bishop, that I answer your questions immediately. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. I need the motion in part no. 71 by Mr Van Raak and Mrs Arissen, but that will not surprise them. Firstly, the law does not, in our view, have the function assigned to it in this motion. As far as the law on the granting of powers on cable is concerned, that is precisely the intention and I would not like to change that. The Bosma motion in part No. 72 proposes to reverse the order. He says you should actually let the law changes go in and then the law. That is precisely why we have chosen the policy rules. We believe it is important for the law to enter into force and for the services to have these powers. We also believe it is important that the safeguards in the new law be implemented as soon as possible. Hence the route of the policy rules, which are already fully ensuring that implementation practice is done as soon as a legislative change is introduced into the law. I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u330	Yes, of course, it is nice that these policy rules apply, but as a Chamber, the highest body in our democracy, we also want to take a look at them. It seems to me very useful that one cannot go without the other, so we can watch that change and the Wiv at the same time. That can be done by putting the Wiv back, or the amendment forward, I don't care at all, but that makes sense. In the meantime, I understand that the services can be started, but it is also important for the House of Representatives of the States-General to have a look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u331	The Second Chamber of the States-General has already been able to take note of the content of these proposals, which is contained in the letter. This content can be converted into policies that the services can then work with, from the date of entry into force of the law. The entry into force of this law, I would say to Mr Bosma, was actually planned for 1 January this year. The only reason it did not enter into force at that time was that the review committee still had to be selected and installed. 1 January was not reached, but 1 May is feasible. At the time when this decision was taken, the Chamber always thought that the cabinet had said: it is urgent, we think this law is necessary and therefore we want it to go in. But we do not just do that, but with guarantees in the implementation practice and with policy rules. The amendment of the law, which sees two important points, is coming your way as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u332	Mr. Van Raak on the motion. We're not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u333	But it doesn't make any sense to introduce a law first, then change it twice? It seems to me, technically, quite logical that you deal with the changes before you let him go in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u334	As I said just now to Mr Bosma, part of the law entered into force in September. It was foreseen that it would have entered into force on 1 January of this year. That was not feasible because of the review committee. We then held an advisory referendum. The cabinet has judged, I hope, with the support of a large part of your Chamber, that it is wise to bring the law into force and that it is good to have it accompanied by a number of changes in implementation practice and a number of policy rules. We consider two of them very important and would like to be incorporated into the law as soon as possible. This cannot be done as quickly as a policy rule; hence this is the route the cabinet has chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u335	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u336	But now the minister has such a fresh official, who has just as quickly figured out what happened with that date, with the CTIVD and with the printed and the digital version. Surely the Ministry can make these two changes very quickly, especially because the Minister says they are actually already in the letter? What will you do to give us at least a test before 1 May, so that we know what is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u337	But Mr Van Raak knows that, because that is what the letter says. Last Friday's letter is the tasting. You were able to talk about that today. That's the intention. This will be translated into policy rules. Mrs van der Graaf has just rightly pointed out that it is also important for these policies to be made public. There is also a motion by Mrs Buitenweg which sees the follow-up. I'll get to that in a minute. In any case, I advise against the motion in part No. 72.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u338	Mrs Buitenweg, short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u339	I want to understand when we'll get the Amending Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u340	As I said during the debate, my intention is to have the amending law here after the summer recess, so that you can talk about the amending law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u341	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u342	The Krol motion in part No. 73 is about the elections and the foreign flags, which must not be used in voting rooms. As far as I am concerned, his motion is a little too far ahead of the evaluation. I'd like to suggest to him that we hold the motion until after the evaluation. I've already promised it'll be in your room before the summer. If he thinks it's necessary, we can always see. So my suggestions are to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u343	I've been given so many promises that I'd be so kind as to hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u344	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (34588, No. 73). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u345	Much appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u346	The final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u347	The last motion, in part No. 74, is Mrs. Buitenweg's. I have just said that the policy rules contained in the letter are now being drawn up. They will also be made public. They are therefore in force at the time of the entry into force of the law. Mrs Buitenweg's motion asks the government to submit any changes to the policy rules to the Chamber first. I'd like to leave this motion to the House's judgment. Perhaps it is not very likely that we are going to change those policies, but when it happens, I can imagine very well, given the debate we have had today and the debate surrounding the consultative referendum and the law, that it is wise to consult the Chamber in such a case. That's it, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u348	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the people who have followed this debate and the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-10-tweedekamer-30.u349	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
