ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr Wim Kok. I ask you all to stand up. On Saturday 20 October last, Wim Kok, Minister of State and former Prime Minister of the Netherlands, died at the age of 80. In the years in which the Netherlands changed greatly, in which columns crumbled and historical certainties were no longer self-evident, he gave direction and trust to our country with his committed and binding way of leading. As a polder boy, Wim Kok was the personification of the polder model, of which he was one of the architects. It arose from the deep-seated belief that, in his words, "try to create and maintain cohesion in society." That hasn't always been easy. Willem Kok was born on 29 September 1938 in Bergambacht as the son of a carpenter. In elementary school, he stood out as a good student. The principal advised his parents to let him learn. He did. First to the mulo in Schoonhoven and then to the hbs in Gouda. In 1956, Kok opted for a study at the Nyenrode Institute. In two years he was trained there for positions in the business and diplomatic service. In particular, the attention paid to languages in training appealed to him. Ever since he was a kid, he's been interested in overseas. Initially, he dreamed of becoming a foreign correspondent. His great knowledge of languages would be of use to him in his later life. But not as a correspondent. After his military service, Wim Kok started as a commercial employee at commercial company Sembodja Malaja in Amsterdam. He soon switched to the Bouwbond van het Nederlands Verbond van Vakverenigingen, NVV, the union of which his father was a member for many years. From policy officer he grew to secretary of the Bouwbond. In 1969, he was asked for the union board of the NVV, of which he was elected chairman four years later. In the next three years, he worked on a merger between the Catholic NKV and his own NVV. On 1 January 1976, the Federation of Dutch Trade Unions, FNV, was formed, with Wim Kok as chairman. At the end of the 1970s, it did not go well economically in the Netherlands; cuts were needed and many people lost their jobs. In 1979 Kok, who had employment guidelines, decided to enter into consultation with the chairman of the VNO employers' association, Chris van Veen. They concluded a draft agreement, which, however, was not accepted by Kok's supporters. It worked in 1982. Kok and Van Veen concluded the Wassenaar Agreement: wage moderation with a view to maintaining and creating jobs. According to Wim Kok, the agreement was due to people who were willing to put aside their own interests. In 1986, Kok made the transition to politics. He was a list pusher for the PvdA and his image along with that of list leader Joop den Uyl on the election posters. Just after the Lower House elections, Den Uyl handed over the sledgehammer to newcomer Kok. He would remain chairman of the political group for three years until he joined the third Lubbers cabinet in 1989. Kok became Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister. The cabinet had to make a lot of cuts and he was the embodiment of that as Minister of Finance. It gave him a lot of criticism from his own constituency and from society, especially about the limitation of the WAO. On the other hand, he was highly praised for his role in the establishment of the Maastricht Treaty in 1991, which laid down, inter alia, the roadmap for the introduction of European Monetary Union. In 1994, Wim Kok became Prime Minister of what became known as the Purple I Cabinet: a coalition of Party of Labour, VVD and D66, for the first time without a Christian Democratic party. At the presentation, however, Kok said: "It is an ordinary parliamentary majority cabinet. (...) from the best traditions of the constituent parts of this cabinet is the commitment and the institution of those who are now in office to be there as much as possible for everyone." In those years Kok reaped the benefits of his polder model as trade union president and the reversals he carried out as Minister of Finance. In 1998 Kok remained prime minister, again from a purple cabinet. The reforms undertaken could be continued. For example, Minister of the Interior, Bram Peper defended a second reading bill for the introduction of the corrective referendum. When it became clear during the debate in the First Chamber that one member of the coalition groups remained in doubt, Kok decided to stand by his minister in the third term. The constitutional revision did not achieve the necessary two-thirds majority in the vote. Nevertheless, the cabinet eventually survived this Night of Wiegel. In the early years of Purple II, the Netherlands benefited fully from the policy pursued, seeking a balance between the market economy and the welfare state. Together with US President Bill Clinton and the Prime Minister of Great Britain Tony Blair, Wim Kok became the embodiment of this Third Way. Once again there was much international appreciation for Kok and his purple cabinet. In their own country, however, there was growing discontent, about integration and waiting lists in healthcare. In 2002, the Srebrenica report, to which Kok bound his conclusions, was added. He said after his resignation, "the absolute, blackest, darkest low you can imagine." A few weeks later, Pim Fortuyn was murdered. The next day, on Tuesday 7 May, Prime Minister Kok spoke in the First Chamber: "(...) to our democratic rule of law was a huge blow. Political contradictions are a characteristic of any democracy. This includes a debate, which Mr Fortuyn has also had with great interest. Debate, if it has to be on the sharpest of cuts, but always, always with respect for each other's opinions. An opinion that must be able to be expressed freely, through all the differences of opinion. Disagreements are settled by words, not by violence." He was, in his own words, "scattered" but convinced that he had to be Prime Minister of all the Dutch right now. Kok had announced more than three quarters of a year earlier that he would stop as leader of the Labour Party. In the late summer of 2002, the camper of the year was awarded this honorary title in 1991 by the ANWB with his wife on holiday to Italy, with the tent. He was an out-of-duty citizen, but soon he made many requests. For example, he was President of some of the European Commission's task forces and took part on several boards of Commissioners in business. Special attention was paid to the cultural sector. He was involved in the Anne Frank House, the Music Theatre, the Rijksmuseum and the National Ballet. He himself said about this: "Art offers me a solution, because it is not about the delusion of the day." Wim Kok was extremely talented, involved and honest. His contribution to Dutch society and the place of the Netherlands in the world has been particularly valuable. We therefore commemorate him today with the greatest respect. May this respect and great appreciation for his merits for our country be to the support of his wife, children, grandchildren, further family and friends. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-4.u2	Madam President. For Wim Kok, Prime Minister was not becoming a boy's dream. He recently said it in an interview: "I never had the ideal idea to go to the Tower. I never dreamed about the prime ministership." Nevertheless, Wim Kok was the dreamed Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Perfectly reliable and 100% involved. A man who sober pragmatism mixed in with sincere commitment. For eight years he was at the helm, above the parties, as Prime Minister of everyone. The fact that this carpenter's son from Bergambacht was facing a great political career was not immediately obvious. But that his career in the public service began with the union was far from strange. The experiences of his youth had shaped him. He experienced the consequences of unemployment up close, and not for nothing "work, work, work" became his motto. Wim Kok never sold out his origins and trade union history for political gain. And you didn't have to. He himself was the example of upliftment and emancipation and that gave him a natural credibility as a champion of the ideals he stood for. As the son of the South Holland riversland, Wim Kok has always remained a bit the boy of the polder. Even when he later became Prime Minister, he stood firmly in the clay with both legs. Wim Kok was like no other the man of the polder model. He had the ability to look beyond his own right and keep an eye on the greater whole. To give the other room and let the other one come to his senses. To come up with the best solution for everyone. Did that always happen on its own? No. With Wim Kok, patience and impatience were two sides of the same coin. If he wasn't fast enough, he'd drum his fingers on the table. But he also knew when to take your time. He compared it himself to running a marathon: you know that the finish is far away and you have to divide the way to it well. And you have to accept that you can't end up first every time. After three years of Torentje he put that as follows: "I had to learn that sometimes you have to be more satisfied with what you have achieved, than dissatisfied with what has not yet been achieved." With this approach, Wim Kok has achieved a lot: already kneading and working on the Netherlands and Europe. He's left his mark on the last decade of the 20th century. After the difficult 1980s, our country became acquainted with prosperity and prosperity that had hitherto been unprecedented. Wim Kok opened the shutters. The Dutch polder became world famous and Wim Kok internationally a respected example for many. He also had a leader with a fatherly impact. At times of great unrest and confusion, such as the attacks on 11 September 2001 and the murder of Pim Fortuyn, he remained calm. Although he admitted that at such a time it was also in his head "a complete chaos." But, he said, "There's always a sense that says, "Wait a minute, you may be as distraught as anyone else, but there are some things that need to be done." And Wim Kok did the right thing, like a statesman does. Madam President. Taking responsibility is the thread of Wim Kok's life. The ultimate example is his resignation after the Srebrenica report. As Willy Brandt once said, "Where guilt is lacking, responsibility can be felt." For Wim Kok the book Srebrenica would never close. That shows that he was more than just a skilled statesman who kept his head cool. He was also a socially moved person with a warm heart. That's how we'll remember him. As a man who has left his mark on our land and who has permanently influenced the lives of many people. We owe Wim Kok a lot of thanks. His wife, children and grandchildren, his family and friends I wish strength in dealing with this great loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-4.u3	I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 3:00.
