ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 34325, the proposal for a law of member Karabulut amending the Participation Act and some other laws relating to the introduction of a displacement test, i.e. the Displacement Test Act. I would like to welcome the initiator, Mrs Karabulut, to the Upper House. I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Kok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The present initiative proposal already has a long duration and goes back to its submission, please note, 20 October 2015. We are now almost two and a half years further. The Participation Act, which is the subject of this legislative proposal, had also entered into force just after a possible longer run-up by 2015, including tightening up of the Work and Assistance Act, with in particular the possibility to request what is called "significant counter-presentation" from the welfare recipients. In order to recall the discussion at that time: under the hollow title of "participant" large and very diverse groups of assistance workers, workers in the social workshops and the Wajangers.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A cold reorganisation of the bottom of the labour market, which was sold with the pretentious and somewhat shameless argument that this would open the way to that "inclusive labour market, with the chance to participate fully and even with the chance of a regular job." A purely political choice to transform the welfare state by decree into a politically-minded participatory society. With a budget cut of 1.8 billion, implementation was then put on the board of the municipalities as another part of the major decentralisation in the social domain. Powers were transformed into a straitjacket of obligations relating to the consideration, labour obligations and sanctions policy. The implicit message to the performers, already burdened by increasing tasks, was to actually increase the huge target group of participation, if the unemployed at the end of the WW and the disabled are also included with less budget and a limited set of tools to help real work. An almost impossible task, apart from the task of achieving "a balanced distribution of mediation to regular work" for such a diverse audience. The idea of inclusive society with equal opportunities for full-time work therefore seemed, in advance, to be an illusion and purely theoretical. Not for nothing was the impression that the budgetary task was leading the way to organise things differently, rather than that the changed design would have been chosen precisely to achieve the goal of "as many people at work as possible." The criticism of the Council of State was therefore considerable. In such a theoretical choice, it is all too easy to ignore the recklessness of the real labour market, which increasingly shows that it is not tailored to the newly defined and enormously enlarged various target group. Why would it be able to find a regular job in another setting in a declining labour market with a rapidly disappearing share of lower skilled work? Apart from the huge influx of European migrant workers and economic asylum seekers from outside the EU. And for the sake of short, I do not even go into the complete flexibility of the labour market, with our country as a dubious frontrunner. The share called euphemistically "flex" continues to grow steadily. See recent CBS figures for 2017. I won't repeat them here. In 2015, the signal was already that a "unemployed carousel" was emerging in specific sectors, in which regular work was replaced by local unemployed. The participation group has added to this. The idea that society is makeable and to create work is no longer pure nonsense. This is not how job or sector plans work either. It has long been shown that there are no additional jobs and displacements, just as subsidised jobs hardly lead to permanent jobs but also contribute to displacement. Mr. Chairman. I thought it would be useful to broaden the context of the present legislative proposal with what was once called the "participant idea." This concept of opportunity has already been added in the closet of quasicausal phraseology of policy plating. Failures have remained and, in fact, the development of the labour market has only increased. And wasn't it the ultimate goal of allowing the entire target group to participate fully and to help those "real meaningful" jobs? In the meantime, after the introduction of the Participation Act and the Work and Security Act, we are more than three years ahead and the urgency to come to review and update is greater than ever. And in spite of everything, this cabinet cannot be burned ahead, trapped in a long-term policy vacuum, parked in a concrete coalition agreement. Stand still on the big files characterizes the leaders responsible. After almost a full year Rutte III comes no further than verbal announcements, rather meant to keep things a little sweet. For example, after an initial experience study Participation Act of 27 November 2015, by Secretary of State Klijnsma, the predecessor of this Secretary of State, and the commitment of an annual letter with an integral picture of the implementation, a new state of affairs was only provided to the House of Representatives on 8 December 2017. There are many detailed lists of all efforts but no details yet on the intended flow to those "real" jobs. It is disturbing to read that more than half of the recipients of assistance, already around half a million people, are not planning to get to work in the foreseeable future. The assistance as a terminal. The big question that arises is whether there will be a final evaluation in 2019 at all, at least one with concrete results. I would like a response from the new Secretary of State on this point. It is possible to make some concrete reference to the passages in the coalition agreement on 'to enter into talks' with the municipalities on the implementation of the compensation. What is the potential impact of experiments with assistance in this area? In his recent letter of 15 December this year, the Minister of Social Affairs and Employment, in the field of the labour market, went into vagueness and, in his recent letter of 15 December last, looked at in meaningless and elusive texts, if only maintenance was needed and we did not have to worry. How to ignore an urgent problem and, with a difficult word, downplay it. Same sample of powerlessness he manifests on the pension file. He comes no further than to deceive the children of the Netherlands "why a new pension system is so important to you too." Kindergarten, worthy of the Juvenile Journal. Because of the context, I wouldn't go into this kind of nonsense framing. Mr. Chairman. I am now really getting to the legislative proposal before us that, at an early stage in 2015, already well before any evaluation, wanted to combat the phenomenon of displacement of paid work. Despite existing restrictions in the Participation Act, it appears, according to the applicant, that the displacement of paid work is already taking place on a relatively large scale. That doesn't surprise me. Municipalities have been indicating that they have been struggling with the decentralisation mission for some time now. Mrs Van Ark's recent letter illustrates this very euphemistically: 'transformation is a process of long-term' and'municipalities have taken steps', although I would not know exactly which one. However, despite the increased experience, the reality is that in practice determination and verification of displacement is very limited. The need to guide so many different target groups is not conducive in this respect. It also appears that municipal councils hardly take control of policies in the fight against displacement. The big question is whether the Participation Act has not become too large and complex container law with all its disadvantages. Now the framework seems to be so broad that the development of adequate instruments has become more difficult. And that is indeed already stated in the Participation Act that there should be no repression when asking for a return, does not mean that local democracy is able to get a grip on it, if it is interested at all. Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying that the PVV is in favour of seeking compensation from the recipients of assistance, although the primary line must be that of paid employment. All efforts must be directed towards this. The consideration should serve a clear purpose in this respect. The mandatory useful activity, as it is called, must really make sense and work. The question is also to what extent, given the number of about half a million recipients of assistance, the return is actually practice and what the experience is. To what extent has the consideration actually been used? What is the stake on the group with a non-Western background, of which some 6,000 were added in 2017 and for which the language itself is already a major problem? For example, the question to the Secretary of State, who recently, 21 January 2018, indicated that the flow from the assistance of this group is a priority, in what way and when she is going to work "hard" as she repeatedly describes it. And how do you think it's a priority? For the record, half or 3 billion of assistance goes to non-Western migrants. This problem does indeed seem to be priority number one. Mr. Chairman. It should also be made clear that the provision of compensation must not lead to the displacement of paid employment. That would put the horse behind the cart and only continue to contribute to the wrong competition in a race to the bottom and ultimately result in a division of misery. My group is also aware that any consideration may conflict with other forms of work such as voluntary work and targeted use of reintegration tools to pay work. To what extent does the consideration work blockingly in this respect? The casusism is endless, as we have read, and the grey area is equally large. Where is the deadline for the applicant? Where is the demarcation between the various forms of commitment? Is a checklist even tailored to this? I would just like to point out that there is no production in theory, because otherwise there should be a wage against this. Previously, in 2015, research carried out by the Inspection SZW has shown that municipalities accept a certain degree of displacement; the concept of "additionality" is apparently pragmatic. Half of all municipalities are not already testing for displacement in spite of the obligation to do so. Why would that suddenly be different, where, for all intents and purposes, it is true that, as the applicant states, and I quote, "municipalities in the implementation of this law have all the space" provided, of course, within the framework? For each region and municipality a different interpretation can be given. Arbitrary application is therefore not excluded. Will the whole thing become so clear to the performers, particularly where it is intended that the six principles set out for review may be laid down in their own form? I would like a further response to this point. And if it is true that the test should be an additional incentive to offer targeted reintegration and this implies tailor-made work, the question is whether the municipalities are being asked about it. How does the applicant see this? Why hasn't there been an execution test at this point? Also, supervision and enforcement seem to be regulated as closing points. Where the field is diffuse and the space is large, the question is whether the primarily responsible city council can really give hands and feet to this. How does the applicant view this? My group still has a few questions and comments, despite the primary positive attitude to the proposal. Does the applicant also see the tension between what local democracy should do under the Participation Act and imposing an additional task in the form of a centrally imposed test for the same purpose? Where is the added value of this new resource and does the applicant consider that, without mentioning it, it is impossible to eliminate a pre-displacement checklist? Why not get rid of the old 2013 motion to formulate similar rules for the same purpose instead of starting a long-term legislative process with an uncertain outcome from 2015 onwards? In this context, it should be noted in general terms that it is important to ensure that legislation is too incident-driven. It should be avoided that all kinds of socially indicated frictions, such as in this context, are too directly translated into opportunity solutions, which have a limited purpose and ignore a fundamental re-evaluation or evaluation of the larger whole as in this case the Participation Act, the Work and Security Act and the quota law. How does the performer view this? In this case, is it not more a matter of the limited repair of a system error? Moreover, I can imagine that the applicant is a bit tired of the prevailing cliché policy of empty language as 'working further, getting started and going in good consultation or conversation' and does not want to wait for any final evaluation. Mr President, so far, just in time. I await with interest the reply of the applicant and the secretary of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Cook. 30 seconds over. You said you'd stay in time, but I just wanted to say this. I give the floor to Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. It has already been noted: early 2015 the Participation Act came into force and already in that same year Mrs Karabulut came forward with her own initiative proposal. Perhaps this is a moment in this house where we have had a lot of work to do over the last few months with own-initiative legislative proposals, with which the authors have also had a lot to do with us, to say: well, that is both a compliment and a warning for the submission of own-initiative legislative proposals, because it is not usually easy for the applicants here in this house, for which there is also, of course, a reason. The intention was to extend the new Participation Act to include a displacement test, which obliges municipalities to actively prevent paid employment from giving way to work done by benefit recipients, almost as a volunteer, in other words, or with wage costs subsidy. I think it is fair to say that neither in the Lower House nor here in the Upper Chamber there is any doubt that it is undesirable that paid for unpaid work should be replaced. There is no doubt about this, but there is, at least in the D66 Group, about the desirability and, indeed, the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed regulation. This doubt is also clearly shared by the Council of State and also by more closely linked organisations such as the VNG, Divosa and Cedris with the practice of the Participation Act. The countersound was already heard by the FNV, and today a Book of Discomfort was presented here by the FNV to the Chamber, in which it became clear what problems there are with the implementation of the Participation Act. A number of cases really don't make you happy. That has just been made clear in Mr Kok's explanatory statement. However, during the examination of the initiative proposal in the Lower House, Mrs Klijnsma, then Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, made it absolutely clear that the initiative proposal could not count on the agreement of the cabinet. At the end of the debate in the Lower House she found herself, and repeatedly that she had "clearly" indicated to find the bill "premature" and that also a letter of amendment would not change her position. Premature, because the implementation of the Participation Act is still in full swing and the evaluation will only be available in 2019. "Furthermore," the Secretary of State literally said, "I agree with you, let me just say for the sake of character building in the labour market regions that municipalities, social partners and the UWV are conclaved on how they want to deal with the phenomenon of displacement at the front." Previously, the Secretary of State had made it clear in less therapeutic terms that it does not consider it appropriate to act so explicitly in the area of local authority responsibility laid down in the law in the context of decentralisation. My group would like to know from the initiator of the proposal what its considerations are in order to limit the responsibility of the municipalities to such an extent that they are forced to implement central and ultimately in an AMvB rules on control of displacement. In Article 8b and Article 83 the Participation Act itself now allows municipalities to pursue their own policies in this area, including where the improper use of the law is concerned. The discussion will, of course, be: do they do enough? Moreover, it is more appropriate, considering the law as a whole, to look at improper use by the beneficiary rather than by the employer. In that sense, the displacement test as proposed here is perhaps a bit of a Fremdkörper in the Participation Act. My group would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State. Does the proposal, by its very nature, fit in with the line taken by the Participation Act? We would also like to hear from the Secretary of State to what extent she still shares the rejection of her predecessor's position. Mr. Chairman. No meeting goes by or the members of the First Chamber remind themselves, the colleagues and the cabinet that it is our job to assess whether the proposed law is qualitatively good, enforceable and enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u6	I have just heard Mr Schnabel quote in detail from the contribution of the then State Secretary to the debate in the Lower House. Then he jumps to the next point. Could he also shed light on the considerations made by the Lower House, including the D66 Group, after the Secretary of State opposed this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u7	Well, it sounds like a lot to me to ask for such a whole consideration of me. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the other hand, took a positive view of this. Actually, the consideration has been what the purpose of this law is and what we could achieve with it. That is the idea of combating repression. Looking at the discussions in the House of Representatives and the choices made by the various parties, I think that for many of them the most important consideration has been the possibility of displacement and the idea that the Participation Act may have indeed looked a little too much at the benefit recipients on that point, which I was actually trying to indicate, and too little at the employers. Our task is of course another: we look in particular at the other aspects of the law, including the extent to which it would be enforceable, effective and enforceable. I will continue with my speech. At the moment, it is difficult for my group to reach a positive opinion on this initiative proposal. Even at the time of treatment in the House of Representatives, it was noted that in quantitative terms little other than anecdotal or casuistic information was available on the extent to which there was indeed displacement. In the meantime, we have to note that no new quantitative information has actually become available, at least not in such a way as to require urgency. This urgency is perhaps not particularly urgent because, fortunately, the labour market is already showing a very different picture than it did a few years ago. The number of recipients of assistance is also falling, although I must add immediately that employment is growing faster than the number of recipients of assistance is declining. So that's a separate problem. Apart from the development of the labour market, the question remains of course legitimate how effective the displacement test can be to prevent improper use of reintegration pathways. That question has been asked repeatedly. This is, of course, difficult to determine in advance, but unfortunately the test already leads, by its very nature, to a reduction in the chances of people receiving welfare benefits reaching the labour market again or finally. It is precisely the examples of the questions to be asked to the entrepreneur or the organisation, as given by the initiator in the further reply of 9 January of this year, that show that the answer, unlike that given by the initiator, cannot be anything other than very complex. The same applies to the assessment of those answers by the municipality, which in some cases will have to answer these questions itself. This point, too, may require some clarification from the initiator: how should this be done? The butcher must then really start to check his own meat, because in a number of cases the municipality will act as an employer. The complexity on both sides will inevitably also have an impact on the costs incurred by municipalities and entrepreneurs. The threat expressed in the same passage of the pleading with criminal or administrative sanctions when supplying wrong data will make both parties shy to do at all what the Participation Act wants: to help more people to and from work. Mr. Chairman. The initiator does not foresee any significant costs for the implementation of the displacement test following the introduction of the law, but wants to reserve EUR 10 million for the follow-up of previous contracts for reintegration pathways on the basis of the test. I would like to ask the initiator whether it is not more likely that a serious implementation of the displacement test will in future have to include at least a comparable commitment to manpower and resources. Is there anything at all known to the initiator about the relationship between the planned commitment of the 10 million now and the total amount of labour cost subsidies made available in recent years? Has the initiator also taken into account the possibility that employers, especially small employers, will be deterred from the administrative burden that the displacement test will entail? Moreover, what possibilities does an employer have to object when the displacement test would be negative? This is, of course, particularly important for the current interested employers. Mr. Chairman. I would like to put these questions to the initiator, because in practice it is difficult enough to get people on welfare benefits back into the labour market, especially if they have been on welfare for a long time. In the area between the benefit alone and the labour market as a whole, improper use of the arrangements of the Participation Act is not entirely and certainly not always pre-excludeable; this has also been noted elsewhere and before. At the time, it was decided to make responsibility for proper implementation and control a task for the local authorities. It is only when it turns out that it fails to do so that we need the evaluation of that law that an appeal is made to the system responsibility of the Minister and the Secretary of State, and preferably without prejudice to the previous and principled choice of a decentralised approach to social problems. In view of the views expressed by the initiator in the statements of reply, the Acts and the reports, my group certainly does not disagree with her on the objectives to be achieved, but I believe that it will also be clear to her that we have our concerns about the means which the initiator intends to use for this purpose. I hope that in her reply she will be able to take away those concerns and I look forward to her answers and to the answers of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr. Schnabel. That was right on time, because you had two seconds left. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the initiative legislative proposal of the Member of Parliament Karabulut. I would like to thank her on behalf of my group for the hard work she has done on this. We support the purpose of her bill. With the initiator, the PvdA considers that employees and self-employed persons without staff should be protected from unfair competition by unpaid or low-paid workers. However, the answers to our written questions have not yet convinced my group that the legislative proposal is the right means to achieve that goal. We would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss this in plenary with the initiator and the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. A decent labour market, that's what the PvdA fights for: a labour market where people are not seen as a cost that you cut as much as possible, but as the largest capital of a company, in which you invest. Underpayment, unfair competition and undesired displacement must be addressed. Sometimes displacement can be desirable. If you give people a chance to get a place on the labour market, you will soon be displaced, my group notes. In our view, therefore, it is not a question of whether or not you are displaced, but of whether or not there is undesirable displacement. After all, equality between men and women reduces the opportunity for men and is therefore repression. Most of us will appreciate this in a positive way. This applies to all forms of increasing the opportunities of people who now have a distance from the labour market. Displacement becomes a problem if it leads to new preferred positions because more than the backlog is compensated. Mr. Chairman. My group is questioning the need for the legislative proposal before us. The municipality of Uden, for example, has managed to guide more than 500 people to paid employment in the last coalition period. There has never been any mention of unwanted displacement. That's not surprising either. The target group, with a wage value of between 30% and 70%, is not comparable in terms of competence to regular workers. With all kinds of financial support measures, they would be cheaper than people working at minimum wage. Does the initiator consider that, given the other competences, an employer is going to send out more expensive forces on this basis? That is not the experience in Uden. Employers hire people from the municipal target group from social and social considerations. Many companies and governments are affiliated to the Foundation Aan het werk, with the aim of integrating and getting people with a lower wage value into their stock, with amazing results. But I am ahead of my last point and I would like to address a number of other issues, including the feasibility of the legislative proposal before us. Mr. Chairman. Indeed, my group has not reassured my group about the written examination of the legislative proposal before us that the displacement test is feasible. With the Council of State, my group considers the substance of the concept of repression to be less clear than the initiator suggests. It is intended to give a clear definition of the concept of 'displacement of paid work', but it raises questions, because when is something repression now? That's not as clear as the bill suggests. And when is there any desired displacement and when is it undesirable? In border cases, it always gets tricky. For example, if you're making the function something else, is it okay? And what if afterwards it turns out that there was an unwanted displacement? What instruments do municipalities have in their hands, we ask the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u10	Mrs Sent explained that the new definition of "displacement" was still subject to many interpretation problems. I understand that, but how does she appreciate the current situation, in which the concept of "displacement" is even less clearly defined? Can that be interpreted at all by the municipal officials in the implementation of the Participation Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u11	I think that the current situation makes it clear that it is sometimes very difficult to distinguish between desirable and undesirable displacement. In today's practice, we see that and we also see it in the legislative proposal before us. The draft law before us brings with it additional implementation costs for municipalities. For example, they should also monitor for displacement in contracts under the Participation Act to which they have not been actively involved so far. In addition, municipalities are asked to check for displacement already started. That is an important task. That is why, on behalf of my group, I asked the author of the written question to accompany the proposal before us with an implementation test and a realistic calculation of the actual costs involved in the legislative proposal. Can it confirm orally that it is not prepared to do so? No one is waiting for a review circus and the child of the account is very likely to be the person with the so-called distance from the labour market. That brings me to the next point. The introduction of a test on displacement prevents the use of people with benefits leading to the displacement of paid work, says the initiator. But what if a test on displacement hinders municipalities in the reintegration of vulnerable groups into the labour market? This is exactly where customisation is desired. In doing so, activation pathways, learning jobs, maintaining benefits and pilot placements are valuable tools for maintaining vulnerable groups in the labour market. My group considers it undesirable for effective reintegration instruments to be blocked in whole or in part. Does the initiator agree with us that such tailor-made work should be done at local level, in consultation with the social partners? Finally, as far as undesirable side effects are concerned, my group has another question about calls for tenders with a social return. Does the initiator share our concern that ex ante scrutiny, because of the bureaucratic burden on the entrepreneur, is price-driven and can also lead to hesitation to register? I would like to comment on this point. With the Council of State, my group sees no compelling justification for intervening in the Act of Participation. And with the Council of State, my group believes that the current legislation in many places already provides for the obligation to check for undesirable displacement. After all, the Participation Act prohibits displacement. As a result, municipalities ensure the prevention of displacement in a variety of ways. For example, the municipality of Leiden has in the regulation, to give an arbitrary example, that there should be no displacement. The city council is very critical of that. That is what my group will be voting in favour of. After all, the implementation of the Participation Act and its monitoring should take place in local politics. On the other hand, the present legislative proposal limits the municipal responsibility for the implementation and control of the city council. On the contrary, my group believes that the principle of decentralisation should be maintained. A good example of taking local responsibility is the use of TNO's Performance ladder Socialer Onderneming (PSO). It has been scientifically substantiated and has become a nationally recognised standard for inclusive entrepreneurship and employers. A large number of cities in East Brabant, including Eindhoven, use it for the assessment of social return in procurement. After all, the risk of social return displacement in procurement is high. It pays to replace regular workers with people with a distance from the labour market but then to fire them again after the tender, because if they continue to grow, companies will not be rewarded in the next call for tenders. By using the PSO, the East Brabant municipalities prevent displacement and reward companies that give people a sustainable chance. Together with aldermen in Amsterdam, Apeldoorn, Leeuwarden and Den Bosch, they are working to get this to be rolled out throughout the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then my group has another question for the Secretary of State, whom I would like to welcome first of all to the Upper House. In a letter to the Eerste Kamer dated 6 February 2017, BZK's colleague explained that the legislative process on initiative legislative proposals has less guarantees of quality, which may prove that the financial transfer and the coverage found are insufficient. Does the Secretary of State agree with my group that the real costs of the present initiative proposal will only become apparent once the criteria have been worked out at AMvB and implementation tests have taken place? And does she agree with us that the figures in the table in the explanatory memorandum seem to be too low in any case? Mr. Chairman. Undesirable displacement should be avoided according to the PvdA; let there be no misunderstanding about this. At the same time, the Participation Act requires creativity and the search for new arrangements to help people from a distance to the labour market to work sustainably. That takes customization and experimental space. The more the execution is directed from the government, the more difficult it becomes to find and use that necessary space. And of course there is chaff among the choirs of employers and reintegration service providers; let there be no misunderstanding about that either. That needs to be addressed. The PvdA entrusts this to municipalities within the framework of the Participation Act. To quote one of our aldermen: the present bill is a typical example of a good intention that does not work in the implementation and runs counter to the local policy freedom that belongs to the three decentralisations. Mr President, I will conclude. As the philosopher Derrida has already argued, any application of a rule immediately means the destruction of the rule. The Participation Act sets out a challenging task for municipalities and the picture of many rules should not be strengthened especially among employers. The PvdA prefers to focus on an inclusive labour market, encouraging employers and setting a good example on its own as a government. In our opinion, this will bring much more for the people who are concerned than even more rules. We look forward to the answers of the initiator and the Secretary of State to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to replace Mr Lintmeijer, who unfortunately is ill today. My group too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Karabulut on the initiative she has taken with the legislative push-over test. This legislative proposal has two interests at the same time: to protect the principle that everyone who works is entitled to income guaranteed by law and collective agreement, but also the importance of the participation of long-term unemployed people through an adequate reintegration policy. In dealing with this legislative proposal, our starting point will be that both objectives must be achieved as much as possible. Our contribution will focus on the road there and on the questions raised by the legislative proposal in this respect. Mr. Chairman. Displacement of paid jobs by jobs that take place free of charge or at very low payment is, of course, highly undesirable. In particular, for low-paid workers in the labour market, this leads to an increase in poorly paid work, the erosion of working conditions and the emergence of a race to the bottom. It is therefore right that legislators and performers are keen on the occurrence of unwanted displacement effects in, for example, the implementation of the Participation Act and the application of social return to public procurement. There is inequality in the labour market in a broad sense, leading to pressure on paid employment. Displacement is a structural problem, especially among the lowest paid. Despite the economic growth of recent years, wages hardly increase there, but the labour income ratio has been falling structurally for years, the CBS figures and notes DNB concerns. In many sectors, such as the almost proverbial postal delivery, fixed jobs with collateral are replaced by low-paidzzp's with zero-hour contracts without collateral. The income position of people with subsidised or unsubsidised work in, for example, the cultural sector is also sad. Graduates often work instead of in paid jobs for a bummer and a bill of consumption under the guise of an internship or work experience place. It is good that the Secretary of State is present at this debate, because there is work to be done on many fronts to ensure that imbalances in the labour market will be addressed. It must be restored to normal that people do work from which they can derive assurances and for which they are properly rewarded. This legislative proposal does not, of course, cover the whole labour market, but it addresses a pressing problem that fits in with the wider framework mentioned above. The scope of this law focuses on the displacement of work that may arise in the implementation of the Participation Act and focuses in particular on people with benefits or reintegration pathways. In addition, the legislative proposal focuses on the effects of social return obligations in procurement. Displacement did not arise with the entry into force of the Participation Act. As early as 2015, the Social Affairs Inspectorate found that in the case of benefits and reintegration pathways, displacement occurs in about a quarter of cases. That's a high percentage. We are not sure whether this has diminished with the entry into force of the Participation Act. That leads to my first questions to the initiator. The Council of State notes that in many places the Participation Act already provides for the obligation to test for undesirable displacement. Can the initiator state again why it considers that the legal frameworks in the still young Participation Act are not adequate at the moment? And in addition, what is the problem of not first looking at whether municipalities see opportunities to combat displacement in implementing the Participation Act? Has the initiator checked this with aldermen and directors of social services and, if so, what image does that call for? With the Participation Act, tasks in the social domain are decentralised and implementation responsibility for reintegration policies at local level. The draft law before us contains uniform criteria which limit to some extent the autonomy of municipalities to shape policies as they see fit. What is the initiativer's consideration of including them in the law rather than further developing policy instruments and developing supervision by leaving the role of municipal councils to municipalities and looking at how this is developing? How does such centralisation in this proposal relate to the idea of decentralisation? I'd like a response from the initiator. Mr. Chairman. These questions to the initiator do not alter the fact that we support the objectives of the legislative proposal. I already told you. If it turns out that municipalities do not have sufficient instruments at their disposal to combat labour market displacement, then the legislator will have to propose solutions to this. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wonders whether this bill guarantees adequate solutions. Our concerns in this respect lie in the feasibility and enforcement of the legislative proposal. In this respect, my group is pleased that the initiator has followed the advice of the Council of State to lay down the definition of repression and the criteria for review in the law. However, the legislative proposal still leaves important parts to AMvBs and local regulations. The inspection in its 2015 report is critical of the poor policy focus that municipalities give to displacement. As far as they do so in further rules, it is often limited to a remark that there should be no displacement of regular work at a test placement, internship or work experience place. Due to the lack of policies and instructions, the concept of "additionality" is often applied pragmatically and it is unclear what conditions the application of these activities should fulfil. The initiator therefore aims to clarify the concept of "additionality" in the legislative proposal. This is a good step in itself, but it remains unclear how municipalities can assess whether there is a displacement of regular work on the basis of these criteria. The bill requires municipalities and UWV to check whether a route leads to unfair competition. The criteria for this are based on different future scenarios: the possible dismissal of workers, changed working conditions in the current workforce or a shift from paid to unpaid work. How this should actually be determined by municipalities does not make the legislative proposal clear. My question to the Secretary of State and the initiator is therefore whether the adoption of this bill in the AMvB will elaborate on how municipalities can assess whether there is repression of regular work on the basis of the legal criteria. Or should municipalities themselves regulate this in their local regulations? And how does the initiator see that actual test in practice? Will the law help municipalities to establish that the work experience place is a substitute for paid employment? The initiator refers to the six criteria that can be answered by yes and no, but does she actually see them as operational criteria? My group reads them more as well as as'sustainable' principles of the displacement test rather than as a real criterion on which to test. Next, the question is how municipalities can determine whether there is actual additional work. Can they send the accountant over? Can they pull all the data? If so, which one? Is a self-declaration from the company concerned sufficient? And what control possibilities does a municipality have after acceptance of a work experience place? Is it not also conceivable that a test against the criteria could lead to a different outcome over time? Suppose an employer expands or gains in wealth. Then it might be at some point that a test on those criteria leads to a different outcome. Is it possible that the municipality will still say: now it is time for you to offer this person a job? Or can't we do that in the meantime? How does it go after the start of such a process from the completion of this test, is my question? When an employee finds that he is underpaid for a work experience spot, he can now file a complaint with the Social Affairs Inspectorate himself. The inspection will then begin an investigation. If an employer does not pay a minimum wage while there is a legal contract of employment, the inspection may impose a fine on the employer. Can the municipality include such sanctions in the local regulation when it finds that there is displacement without specific complaints from individual stakeholders? We would like to hear how the initiator sees this in practice, especially in view of the low implementation costs it provides for this bill for the municipalities. Finally, a legislative proposal may also entail unintended effects. Has the initiator foreseen that the mere fact that there will be a legal displacement test could lead to cold-water fear in practice and that, on the contrary, fewer work experience spots will be offered unintentionally? This could lead to more people being sidelined while allowing them to enter the labour market with additional support. I would also like a reflection of the initiator on this. Mr President, my group is in favour of combating repression. Let's get that straight. We share the objectives of the initiator. However, we do not yet see very clearly at the moment how the displacement test in the hands of the alderman and the city council will actually function after the entry into force of this bill. We would therefore like to invite the initiator to tell us that beckoning perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the initiator on being able to defend this bill here today in the Senate after acceptance in the House of Representatives. It takes a lot of time, energy and persuasion to bring a bill this far. At the heart of the initiative proposal is the protection of workers from unfair competition by persons receiving assistance. Displacement then indicates the replacement of paid by unpaid forces. The displacement test gives municipalities an instrument to counter this. I would like to compose my contribution on about five questions that are decisive for the Christian Union in the assessment of this initiative legislative proposal. Let me also stress that we wholeheartedly support the objective of the legislative proposal. The first question that needs to be asked is that is a classic question in this house.. is how big the underlying problem actually is. In other words, is the scale of the problem of displacement such that new legislation is needed? The answer to this question of proportionality is not in favour of the legislative proposal. I do not know in-depth scientific research that the phenomenon of displacement as referred to here is uncontested and that shows that there has been a persistent, extensive and growing problem over the last 20 years. The explanatory memorandum mainly mentions ad hoc research and stories in the media. However, terms such as "signals," "messages" and "sounds" do not qualify in this house as sufficient evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u16	Mr Ester talks about the period of the last 20 years. I think it is quite right to look back on this over a longer period of time. He says there is no quantitatively reliable study on displacement available. May I ask if he has taken note of the report that Research for Policy at the time I thought it was written in 2011 on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs? A number of other studies have also led to the conclusion that, on average, the additional work is 25% accompanied by the displacement of paid work. Doesn't he think that's a proper investigation, or does he think it's too little or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u17	No, I'm not. I said that I haven't known any research in the last 20 years, which shows that it's a persistent, extensive and growing problem. It is also a question of comparing before and after the Participation Act, which several speakers have spoken about. I am not concerned that there are no occasional studies that have done noble work. The report you mention is undoubtedly an example of this. I really am talking about longitudinal research in order to make this point irrefutable. In my firm conviction and my own observation that research is not present in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The mainstream scientific research, I say on the basis of own perception, focuses mainly on what is very similar to the reverse movement: the displacement of lower-educated people by higher-educated people. The latter is a common issue in both labour market sociology and the labour market economy. This is above all the thesis of displacement which is reflected in scientific literature and which has also led to the necessary research in our country. All this makes it difficult for my group to go along with the conclusion that there is a compelling problem that needs an urgent solution. The answers given by the initiator in the written preparation were also not convincing in this respect. I would therefore like to ask once again for a solid justification of this issue of proportionality, since this is an appropriate assessment criterion in the Upper Chamber. I also put this question to the Secretary of State, whom I would like to welcome on this side of the Binnenhof. The second question is why there should be a national headline on municipal labour market and welfare policies. Municipalities have already pointed this out in the context of the Participation Act, since previous speakers have already pointed out their own possibilities to intervene in the event of repression. I refer to Articles 9 and 10 of the Participation Act. They are the appropriate actor, also in view of the decentralisation of policies, to do something about this. They can judge that very well, because they know the local labour market. Why is national policy needed here, my group asks. What urgency is there here and now to come up with a displacement test? After all, municipalities are primarily responsible for welfare policies and local labour market policies? In the event of displacement, which is a bad thing, they are the first to intervene. That is also where the substantive balance has to be taken. The question is, therefore, what is the content of the legislative proposal added to this. On this point, too, my group would like to be convinced. It seems that municipal responsibility is being restricted here. The third question is what exactly does the bill mean for people who are in a reintegration process? They will be traced back to the labour market through work paths. Work rhythm and work experience increase their labour market opportunities. Theoretically, this could be a case of displacement of paid workers. Are these people or are they not under the regime of the bill? I would like to answer this question, which is essential for my group. After all, this is a vulnerable group that wants to return to the regular labour market and is supported in it. Moreover, I understand from the second letter of amendment that the displacement test does not apply to labour restrictions for which the employer receives a wage subsidy. Covered employment and social employment are equally outside the scope of the legislative proposal. It is good to emphasise this in plenary. Persons who perform activities in the context of social return, for example through a municipal procurement process, are explicitly covered by the regime of this initiative proposal. Here, too, the question is why we want to enter into the powers of municipalities. They may have their own arguments for giving this vulnerable group an extra boost. If we want to intervene, my group asks the initiator to do so. And what is the situation for refugees, for example, who want to build a life in the Netherlands with the support of the municipality? Are their activities also subject to that displacement test? And if so, does this not mean that there is a huge gap in the use of labour market instruments for this vulnerable group? Mr President, I come to the fourth question. I associate the potential benefit of a displacement test with an economy characterised by long-term high unemployment and with a severe economic crisis. After all, employers have the choice and they will select the cheapest labour for them. Then the labour reserve is large. And people in welfare belong to that group. But that story doesn't go for an economic boom like we're going through right now, I think. Then the labor reserve is small. Then the primacy lies much more among workers, despite substantial long-term unemployment among certain groups. The labour market figures of the CBS three weeks ago make this change clear. The CBS even speaks of a "strong labour market." There has been an increase in the number of job seekers in relation to each job vacancy. By way of illustration, in 2013 there were 7.1 job seekers against each job vacancy, which has now fallen below 2 job seekers. The number of jobs is now above 8 million; higher than ever. The number of vacancies also increased to a high level; to roughly a quarter of a million. Employers, especially in certain sectors, must take everything out of the box in order to be competitive in the labour market. There is even a "war for talent." Employers know that they need to draw the wallet to bind new workers to make a difference in the labour market through more generous primary and secondary working conditions. Displacement of paid by unpaid labour is not a matter of immediate concern. This is not exactly the recessive image that the bill seems to be breathing. I would like to hear from the initiator, because I am genuinely curious about how she assesses the usefulness and necessity of the displacement test she proposes in the light of this tight labour market. Don't these assumptions conflict with each other? How does it make it plausible that in a strongly attracting economy benefit recipients are pushing out paid labour, or that there is improper competition? What's the deeper logic here? My group would also like to be convinced on this point. I would also like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this issue: if there is any possibility of repression, is it not primarily and only cyclically and in the opposite direction than the proposal suggests? Then there is the fifth and final question to the initiator. The preparation and execution of the displacement test itself is regulated by AMvB and must find its way to municipal regulations. The initiator presents six leading questions. These are summarised in the further reply given on 9 January. I have to say that the initiativer seems to take a somewhat angular definition of "displacement." An unpaid activity displaces and a paid activity does not. It's a bit of a digital concept: it's 0 or it's 1. But there is a considerable twilight area and overflow between both activities; clarity is often far from being sought. A modern labour market is dynamic and often disruptive. Displacement also takes place at the level of paid jobs: new jobs that take over old jobs or make them redundant. We see that on a large scale it is by automation that is cutting back on administrative jobs. How do these profound labour market developments fit into the thinking of the initiator?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u18	I have a question similar to that I asked Mrs Sent a few tens of minutes ago to Mr Ester. He is now talking about the definition of 'displacement' in the initiative proposal and he is putting forward a number of, I think, good arguments that this is not conclusive and could be too strict in practice. I can feel for him. But in this context, how does he look at current practice with an almost missing definition that local authorities and municipal officials should also stop the displacement? For repression is forbidden in the current Participation Act. How is it possible with this barely existing definition and the existing law to shape the policy properly, as opposed to the better and more specific definition in the initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u19	The temptation is, of course, to repeat Mr Sent's argument, but you will not be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u20	No, Mrs Sent has answered me but not satisfactory at all. I was so hoping you could.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u21	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u22	I set the bar high for myself, Mr. Chairman. We are now assessing the legislative proposal as it stands, with a very own definition of 'distorting' and I am responding to that and I would like to make some comments. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are also the necessary problems with this definition in common practice, but with all due respect, I am now concentrating on the story that has been presented to me. I shall certainly go further in order to highlight the complexity of this in the way in which the initiator formulated it. Determining micro-level displacement is complex matter where complex questions of causality arise. Just show that the performance of unpaid work by a person with a benefit in a causal sense leads to the displacement of paid work by another person in a company or organisation, leading to irrefutable evidence which, where appropriate, may even be the prelude to administrative or even criminal prosecution. Employers will be very reluctant to do so. Has the initiator had contact with field experts to be advised on how to design such a test? After all, it must be both valid and reliable. The initiativer puts this problem on the board of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs a little easily. I'd also like to hear how the Secretary of State sees this. Mr President, I shall conclude. My group has difficulty with this proposal and, above all, needs further clarification. The scale of the underlying problem............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is certainly true at a time when there is a tight labour market and an economy with a strong recovery. If there is already labour market displacement, municipalities can assume their responsibilities under the Local Participation Act. There is no need for the Hague instruments. Labour markets are local and regional, and we have therefore rightly decentralised our policies. However, we are concerned about the potential impact of the legislative proposal on vulnerable groups seeking a path to the labour market. In addition, we note that the support for the legislative proposal is not enough, given the response of VNG, Cedris, Divosa and employers' organisations. The Council of State has also made critical comments, calls the bill "premature" and is not convinced of its added value. Mr President, the predecessor of this Secretary of State, Mrs Klijnsma, in her letter of one year ago, advised against the initiative legislative proposal. My group asks the new Secretary of State what her opinion on the bill is. Does she share the reasons and considerations of the previous Secretary of State and what is her final opinion? If displacement, as intended by the initiator, occurs on a large scale, then we have a serious social problem. My group must see convincing support for this. We are curious about the answers of the initiator and the Secretary of State to our first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u24	Then you very much, Mr. Chairman. The members of the VVD Group support Mrs Karabulut's initiative proposal that unpaid labour should not be replaced by paid labour. My group is pleased that the SP supports the VVD policy which must pay for work. We ask the initiator to take advantage of the opportunity today and to reflect even more broadly on the other side of this principle on behalf of the SP. The other side of this principle is the undesirableness of pay without work, such as a universal, individual and unconditional basic income for all citizens that is sufficiently high to live on. As you know, the VVD is against basic income because available resources for those who really need support are also allocated free of charge to better-earned people who do not deserve income support. With a basic income for everyone, people in need who really deserve our political attention will eventually decline financially and the VVD does not think that this is desirable. What is the state of the SP on this issue, I ask the initiator. My group is still critical of this initiative proposal. The VVD's concerns are both of a constitutional and a substantive nature. During the general consultation on labour market policy on 5 November 2014, Mr Ulenbelt of the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists proposed a motion to oblige municipalities to introduce a displacement test. Minister Asscher considered this motion premature because of ongoing discussions with municipalities. Asscher dissuaded the motion and the motion was subsequently rejected on 11 November. Ms Karabulut's motion of 11 February 2014 on the occasion of what was eventually called the Participation Act, to draw up a displacement test for municipalities, already suffered the same fate. Following the entry into force of the Participation Act from 1 January 2015, Ms Karabulut presented her own initiative legislative proposal on the displacement test on 20 October 2015. Even before the Participation Act has entered into force, let alone been evaluated, a complementary initiative legislative proposal on the displacement test will be launched. There must be solid arguments for submitting the supplementary legislative proposal on the displacement test. My group has not found these arguments. My group's questions on this aspect have not been answered in substance. The initiator referred to documents of the trade union movement in particular. However, these documents do not provide a solid basis for the issue of displacement. The Council of State therefore considered that the proposal for an initiative was premature. Of the arguments put forward by the Council of State, I refer to the limited and ambiguous practical experience with the displacement of paid labour by unpaid labour, the demand for the added value of the bill for the Participation Act which has just entered into force, the funding by municipalities of the implementation of the displacement test, given the decentralisation of public administration with corresponding cuts, and the question of the Council of State about whether the initiative legislative proposal actually works. Furthermore, VNG, Cedris, Divosa and VNO-NCW have each, on their own responsibility, pointed out that there seems to be unworkable legislation. This complex of facts leads my group to ask the initiator whether it believes that it is desirable, in principle, for an initiative proposal to coincide almost with a government legislative proposal. In addition, my group calls on the initiator to indicate the distressing negative effects of the Participation Act on the displacement of paid labour by unpaid labour. Where and how does the initiative offer concrete measures against alleged displacement? A question of a different kind of state law has arisen with my group on the basis of the answer given in the further reply of 9 January. on the question of whether the initiative proposal can be assessed in terms of implementation aspects. The initiator replied that she sees no need to carry out an execution test because the Lower House passed the law on 21 February 2017. My group calls for an explanation of this view of the task of state law, both individually and collectively, of both chambers in the legislative process. In any event, my group is asking for an explanation as to whether the First Chamber does not play a role or does not play a significant role in the legislative process. The First Chamber shall review the feasibility of legislation. On 11 July 2017, the Temporary Working Method Committee of the First Chamber adopted its report on the examination of its working methods and presented it to the President of the First Chamber. This Chamber discussed the report in plenary on 24 October 2017 and endorsed most of the conclusions and recommendations. A adopted opinion from the committee is to systematically carry out a feasibility and enforcement test, a test on the execution test, per legislative proposal. The VVD Group lacks an implementation test for the initiative proposal Act displacement test. My group therefore has the following questions to the initiator. Which implementing bodies did the initiator consult beforehand on her legislative proposal displacement test? On which parts of its legislative initiative there was consensus and on which parts there was no consensus, some per implementing body? How does the initiative proposal actually allow effective use of the displacement test? The VVD Group invites the initiator to specify this question in terms of the quality of the staff, financial, organisational, procedural and legal provisions in the executive municipalities. Does the initiator wish to express her views on cooperation between municipalities, civil society organisations, companies and employees, thereby clearly defining competences and responsibilities? Will the initiator indicate how the quality of supervision and control is guaranteed? How does the initiator intend to prevent excessive control and monitoring in the enforcement of the displacement test? Article V of the initiative proposal provides for an evaluation of the law. How is it foreseen that the relationship between the implementation and implementation practice and the actual effects of the displacement test are involved in the evaluation? How is it ensured that municipalities can carry out the displacement test? Has it been investigated or has it been discussed whether municipalities are clear what the task is assigned to them? How did this investigation and consultation take place? Are the municipalities sufficiently equipped to carry out the displacement test to ensure effective implementation of the scheme and how has this necessary peripheral condition been fulfilled? Are municipalities sufficiently equipped in the field of ICT? What are the expected effects of the displacement test? What is the effectiveness in relation to the relationship with other schemes? To what extent is evasive behaviour, abuse or misuse expected? Has a risk analysis been carried out on other possible unforeseen effects? I realize that on behalf of my group I am asking critical but important questions to the initiator. I look forward to the initiativer's answers with interest. Depending on the answers received and the progress of the debate, I will advise my group on the position of the VVD in the vote on this initiative proposal on a displacement test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Van de Ven. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u26	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would also like to thank Mrs Karabulut for her own initiative proposal. It is about an important problem: the displacement of paid labour by unpaid labour. As early as 1996, the General Court concluded that we must be careful that subsidised labour does not lead to the displacement of regular work. The 2013 Participation Act, which only became effective years later, stipulates that unpaid activities to be carried out in the context of the so-called "counterperformance" and the participation places, I quote "in addition to or in addition to regular work and which do not lead to displacement into the labour market." The sentence is a little crooked, but that's because I quoted. Thus, work which retains benefit should not replace regular paid work. Unfortunately, the reality is different: on a rather large scale there is the legal ban on displacement. A number of, sometimes poignant examples, have been extensive in publicity in recent years. Like the garbage collector from The Hague who had to do his old work after his WW in the context of a work project to maintain his welfare allowance. And the factory halls in Dinxperlo and Ulft where artificial flowers and envelopes were made. Until 2011 by people on a contract of employment and then by people who had to do so to maintain their benefit. Also in their own working environment, members of our group are faced with displacement. For example, an ex-client of the Salvation Army, who, in return for his assistance received, is employed by the regional social employment company. He was allowed to work to replace the regular postmen. But with no pay or supplement on his benefit. And there was no chance of getting a paid job after the expiry of his period of consideration. Several reports show that displacement of paid labour by unpaid labour is not an incident. Research conducted by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment in 2011 concludes that displacement is, I quote, "maybe the main unintended effect of activating reintegration." Researchers estimate that displacement is usually around 25%. On the basis of other studies, they also estimate that the additional jobs created by all kinds of schemes will be around 25% instead of paid jobs. In 2014 and 2015, the FNV conducted research into displacement by non-wage workers. More than 500 people participated. 90% of them indicated that paid colleagues were replaced by people who took over the job while retaining benefits. Of course, this 90% is not representative for the whole country, but hundreds of colleagues from the FNV report that in their companies paid colleagues have been replaced by people who took over the job while retaining a benefit. Research carried out by the television programme De Monitor shows that in one of the three calls for tenders in the context of so-called "social return" permanent contracts are removed and replaced by temporary contracts, with the effect of increasing uncertainty and lower wages for the workers concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u27	I have a question. Suppose the people who had to do that work, even though they might have temporarily replaced someone, eventually gotten a regular job. In that case, is the displacement allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u28	Not from me, but according to the current Participation Act, which Mr Schalk's group voted for, this kind of displacement is not allowed either. It is not checked at all, the current law is not implemented, but that is a different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u29	Suppose the postman of just now, in the example of the FNV, had to "update" for two months and then knew that he would get a regular job. Even then, you say that this temporary displacement should not take place. Where would someone like that get work experience?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u30	Well, look, in the case of that mailman, it's very simple. Apparently, there was work there for a replacement of the paid postman. Instead of taking on such a replacement, someone was put on it while retaining benefits. What should have happened, of course, is that the same person, while retaining benefit, who did not need any employment at all and could act directly as a sickness replacement, was simply put on that paid job, for at least the minimum wage. That's how it's done in the Netherlands, not the way it's done now. This is a clear example of repression, which is already prohibited by the law, but which nevertheless takes place. Mr. Chairman. I had listed those investigations. They're not all about the Participation Act. This problem has been affecting the additional jobs for the unemployed in one category or another, which have always been well-intentioned, for decades. But there is no reason to suppose that the introduction of the Participation Act would have made this a minor problem. On the contrary, I'll get to that in a minute. Of course, there has been no longitudinal investigation into displacement over decades. That would not make sense either, because in those decades the rules for additional work have always changed. So it would be a matter of comparing apples to pears. During these decades, the economic cycle also goes from high-conjuncture to low-conjuncture a number of times. This would also have a major impact on the amount of unpaid labour employed. So with such a long-term study, you can't determine anything at all. If I put such a longitudinal study on the table, I think Mr Ester would be the first to explain why that would not have any value for our current discussion. Mr. Chairman. Displacement of regular paid labour by unpaid or underpaid labour is a social evil. Unemployed persons with a benefit must start working with an income below the statutory minimum wage. People who normally had paid jobs become unemployed. The labour market is being disrupted, with only negative consequences. The conditions of competition between companies are also distorted if underpaid work is placed on the market. It is not for nothing that the trade union movement, but also employers in the cleaning industry, opposes this evil. It is not for nothing that they have called for the initiative proposal to be supported. In the Lower House, displacement by different parties has been discussed several times. In December 2013, the House of Representatives adopted the motion of the Labour Chamber Members' Party Hamer and Kerstens, in which the government was asked to formulate rules of the game with measures and objective criteria, in order to prevent and monitor displacement as much as possible. That was not a request to the municipalities: it was a Lower House motion, submitted by the PvdA, in which the government was asked to formulate those rules and to establish those objective criteria on repression and to monitor implementation. In May 2015, the Inspection SZW concludes in a study that city leaders and customer managers are a terrible word, but those are the municipal officials that implement the law sometimes accept repression. It was also concluded that there is often no assessment of whether reintegration of welfare recipients leads to the displacement of paid labour and that there is often hardly any active role of the city council in developing the monitoring of policy on displacement. The SZW Inspection advises municipalities to better anchor reintegration policies and goals through regulations or policy papers. In other words, there is a large-scale trade in violation of the Participation Act. The proposal for an own-initiative report that we are discussing now is about to do something about this. It still gives effect to the Hamer/Kerstens motion. It is merely an effect of the existing legal ban on displacement. To this end, it sets out a definition of displacement, regulates the need for a test to be carried out in advance when offering participation places and lays down the criteria for this test. I do not see why this would be much more work for municipalities than the implementation of the current law, if they were to implement it. Now it is less work in most municipalities, because one does not even look at displacement, or with a oblique eye. Or they say, "Well, it's inevitable, and in violation of the law, we just accept it." But if you are going to test it, what should be done according to the law? You come up with such a list of criteria and the expiry of them. That is not at all so complicated in the implementation practice. It is even easier than having all officials give their individual interpretations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u31	Mr Köhler often refers to the current law and says: it is not being implemented now, so that is why municipalities have no work to do. If the law were to function properly and applied properly, as Mr Köhler would like, what would be the added value of this bill if we were to adopt it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u32	I am just talking about the part relating to the Participation Act and not about the sidelines that are in it. If the current ban on displacement paid work should not be replaced by unpaid work now effectively maintained throughout all municipalities by any means, the whole bill would not have been necessary, no. But that is based on a situation that unfortunately is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u33	Therefore, the proposal does not provide for additional ways and measures to ensure that the displacement does not occur. If the Participation Act were to function adequately, the legislative proposal could be superfluous or add nothing specific to the part of the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u34	Uh, yeah... Yes. You have been able to read in the explanatory statement and in the various written answers that, because it is not working properly now, the initiator, but also the majority of the House of Representatives, believes that it is good to work out the law further so that it will make it easier for the municipalities to implement it. Reference has also been made to the study of Social Affairs and Employment, of which I have just quoted some of the conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u35	Listening to Mr Köhler's answer to Mrs Strik's question, is this law not very premature when we see that the Participation Act was introduced on 1 January 2015? This initiative proposal was presented in October. I suspect the applicant needed a few more months before she could have written that. My question is: if we say that this law is not really necessary if the Participation Act is properly implemented, should we not have had to wait until there was a proper evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u36	No, I don't think so, because the Participation Act is not the first law in which municipalities work with all kinds of schemes for additional work. I have just listed a number of studies, all of which date from the period before the introduction of the Participation Act. The Participation Act continues on this denominator and significantly extends the opportunities for unpaid work with the consideration and with the participation places. This is a moment to be very critical of that. You cannot say that two years ago municipalities were suddenly confronted with such a displacement test or something like that and have not yet had the time. They should have made a better assessment of this in the previous laws as well, or else at the time when they were going to implement the Participation Act. At that time they had to draw up a municipal regulation, in which they did not draw up it. Even now, in that letter from the VNG of 4 April 2017 to the Dutch Parliament, so that's another two years later, they say: give us time to work this out. Then I think we can wait forever. Then the conclusion of the evaluation is already known, not only to me, but also to you. But then you will only find in a few years' time that the displacement test and the ban on displacement have unfortunately not been carried out, in the vein of: how strange, we had the idea that things were going so well? Well, we don't have that idea. We don't think it's going well at all. Some of the municipalities that have also been mentioned by Mrs Sent have done very well. But a very large number of other municipalities are not. Nor do the municipal councils have any control over this, because if nothing about this displacement is included in the municipal regulation at all, then the municipal accounting office cannot check it and then the municipal councils cannot check the execution by B and W, because then there is nothing to check. Nothing has been included and there is no need for compliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u37	Mr. Schalk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u38	Finally, Madam President. If I understand correctly, the Participation Act has had no influence whatsoever on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u39	Well, the Participation Act has had an impact on the extent to which the opportunities for developing unpaid work paths have been extended and that already existing problems of displacement have therefore logically increased rather than decreased. To be in favour of this, we would like to see what is already in the Act of Participation, namely that displacement should be banned, also given hands and feet. We want that part of the law to be implemented or implemented in practice, in all those places where it is not now, so the good ones are not being discussed. I see that I am almost out of my speaking time apart from this detailed answer, so I would just like to make a few comments. I would also like to point out that the present initiative proposal, if we see it correctly, and I ask Mrs Karabulut to respond to it, is only applicable to work in the framework of the compensation and participation places under the Participation Act, the pilot placements from the WW and the calls for tenders with the social return element. So these are not people with physical or intellectual disabilities with so-called wage values below the minimum wage. They are excluded if they are helped to work with labour costs subsidies. I mention this only so explicitly, because Mrs Sent appears to see it as one of the objections to this law, whereas I believe that, if I read this correctly, that group is not covered by this legislative initiative. Mr. Chairman. I have already said that the city council will also have a stronger position if a displacement test is laid down in the municipal regulation. The bill obliges municipalities to deal more seriously with the already existing ban on displacement. Who could be opposed to that? We in the SP Group do not, because we see displacement as a social evil. Now there's going to be here and there... No, I'm not gonna make it, Mr. Chairman. I'll save that for my second term. Although we have not asked any questions ourselves, except for one confirmation which we ask of a particular reading of the law, the SP Group looks forward with interest to Mrs Karabulut's response to the questions and comments of our colleagues. Thank you. President: six seconds too long. You'll have to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. You were over it. It had turned red by now. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group respects the work done by the initiator, Mrs Karabulut, in the framework of the Displacement Test Act. This test has an impact on the process initiated around the Participation Act, with a balance to be struck between the provision of compensation by benefit recipients versus the problem of displacement of paid labour. An important question from my group to the initiator is what she actually thinks of the starting point of the Participation Act, and in particular of the need to provide a contribution. In the course of examining the documents, my group was given the impression that the initiator initially linked this law to a variety of different principles, which do not yet have a clear link. Fear of phasing out work to low-wage countries, students taking job experience places for granted, unemployed people not coming to work, economic crisis. In short, a range of things is mentioned, but there is a bit of a different perspective. This is all the more important when I read that this legislative proposal aims to increase the chances for people with welfare benefits in a real, paid job and to protect paid workers and employees from unfair competition through the use of unpaid labour. My question is: what does the initiator really want? Is it now a matter of preventing employers from making improper use of the Participation Act? Or is it about the role of the municipalities, accepting this displacement too easily? Or are they workers who lose their jobs as a result of the use of benefit recipients? Or is it about helping beneficiaries get started quickly? In any case, the latter seems to me to be an important objective of the Participation Act. This displacement test does not put the right focus on that, on the feelings of my group. I have the following questions about this, among other things. Isn't the introduction of a displacement test imposing a heavy administrative, if not bureaucratic, burden on all those who want to make the Participation Act a success? How does the initiator view this? And what is the Secretary of State's view on this? I find it much more difficult that this law makes the perspective of real work even more problematic for people in a benefit position. After all, the use of this law is that it seems that they should only be used for work that is normally not paid. That means that there are only chores to be found that no one else can find, or that no one wants to do or at least no one wants to pay for? Shouldn't you be giving all the space to grow into normal work? Can this not be a great incentive to seduce entrepreneurs or organisations, to employ people who then grow into real, sustainable work, through work that really matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u42	Mr Schalk talks about jobs that do not matter, that we must avoid them. At present, the Participation Act refers to activities of general social benefit which have not been paid up to now. That's the idea. Does he want to put that aside under the motto: these are tasks that don't matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u43	I do not want to put that aside, but I find it increasingly difficult to understand what additional work there would be that would not normally be paid in one way or another, even after hearing the debate this afternoon and the input of Mr Köhler himself. Contrary to the fact, for example, that we have never cleaned up the park in our local municipality so far, but now we are going to ask a few people to do so, so to speak. If you've done that for a few months or a few years, you have to say, "Now it really has to be work." After all, it is at some point complete with the additional work which does not receive any value or equivalent. That's kind of the objection I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u44	I think there's been a misunderstanding here. For example, if you have to do something about cleaning the city in the context of the so-called compensation for the implementation of the Participation Act, then that work could also have been paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u45	Sure, so you don't have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u46	Yes. We are not in favour of this either, but that aside. But that is now legally possible in the Participation Act, and so is this displacement test, unless it is work, direct jobs, which at some point have recently been excluded from paid employment. But if a municipality says "so far we could only clean at level A and now want to clean the city at level B," and they really add jobs, then that displacement test does not apply. As far as I am concerned, that is a pity, by the way, but that is a different discussion than that on the displacement test. With this displacement test, too, I believe it is still possible to have unpaid work carried out, which would normally be paid work. Only if it replaces work that was actually paid for, will the displacement test prohibit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u47	Let's use an example, then it gets some hands and feet. If we say in a manner of speaking: a municipality has a certain budget for cleaning the city and at some point that budget has been spent, but the city is not really clean enough, then we put someone in for it, because we do not have any money anymore. Then it is indeed not paid for the last few years, but you are still doing something that you might actually consider paid for. In other words, the boundary between that additional work and ordinary work, which would also be paid, is thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u48	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u49	I couldn't agree more. We, as SP, are not in favour of this element in the Participation Act: letting people do normal work, but all the time or temporarily unpaid. All I'm saying is that this displacement test doesn't change anything. This mischievous practice is allowed to continue. At this point, the displacement test does not provide a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u50	Madam President. I would almost be inclined to ask a counter-question, but you wanted to have a "final" question. I would almost ask whether the SP actually wants to work with a contribution from welfare recipients. Or maybe that's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u51	Finally, Mr. Köhler. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u52	Well, that depends on the nature of the consideration. If the consideration is actual work that should normally be rewarded in regular practice, we are not in favour of it. That is why we voted against the Participation Act in this form. I just repeat that this initiative legislative proposal on the displacement test does not change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u53	No, I think Mr Köhler is right about that. But I think I am also right to say that even if there was no displacement test or if there was no repression, the SP, at least through Mr Köhler, would indicate that asking for compensation from a beneficiary would not be a good idea. It seems to me that I can conclude on the basis of what we have now discussed. But maybe I'm wrong about that. Then I'd like to hear it later in the afternoon. I had stayed with the incentive there would be for entrepreneurs and organisations to seduce people to take up duty in order to grow into sustainable real work through work that really matters. In addition, there is a broad shared political desire to give citizens as much space as possible to take responsibility for their own living environment. This proposal excludes tasks that have been paid by the government for some time from the commitment under the Participation Act if the displacement test is passed over it. My group wonders whether this proposal is adequate to meet local conditions. Why does the initiator opt for a legal ban on using a voluntary initiative as a municipality because this initiative fell under paid employment in the previous three years? You're not gonna lock the case with that? Madam President. Working on an initiative law requires a lot from a Member of Parliament. This law was initially offered on 20 October 2015 and I assume that the initiator has already started doing so for some time. This leads to a significant change in the starting position. There is no longer any question of the economic crisis referred to at the time. The number of unemployed has fallen considerably. I refer to today's CPB report, which states that economic growth is around 3% and unemployment is falling to 3.5%. It hasn't been so low since 2001. My question is whether the improved conditions still affect the legislative proposal or its impact. I have the question to the Secretary of State whether she can indicate what the changed circumstances will have to do with the effect of this law if it is adopted. Does this have an impact on the general measure of governance as it should be developed by the Ministry? Madam President, I have another question for the government. Secretary of State Klijnsma strongly advised against this bill because it makes it more difficult to lead people back to the labour market by blocking effective reintegration tools in whole or in part. I quote her with that. In the meantime, we are dealing with a new government. What is the verdict of the Secretary of State at this time? Madam President, many questions about this bill. The reason for this is that my group wants to make maximum use of maximum opportunities for people with benefits. That is why I look forward to the reaction of the initiator and the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u54	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u55	Madam President. The CDA Group has taken note with interest of the legislative proposal before us. With its proposal, the initiator steps in the middle of the problem of the bottom of the labour market, a persistent problem of great social importance. For decades, we have been faced with the problem of a large number of people on the one hand with benefits, about 1 million people, and on the other hand there are always a lot of open vacancies, at the moment about 250,000. It is rare to achieve an efficient link between supply and demand in this area. The distance from the labour market is too great. Many people who are long-term unemployed or otherwise in a difficult position are not self-employed. They must have a little support in their backs. Sometimes there are successful projects. In this context, the 100,0000 Jobs Plan agreed in the social agreement of 2013 should be mentioned. The agreement is that up to 2026 100,000 jobs will be created in business for people with disabilities. Read here: people with Wajong benefits. That project is on schedule. What is less running is helping refugees to work. There are 25,000 asylum status holders and, according to recent publications, these people are hardly able to get to work. It goes without saying that it is essential for the integration of this group that this picture should change. Maybe there should be the same approach for them as for the Wajongers. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to this. The labour market is complicated. We have a lot of simple work, for example in agriculture and horticulture. This work is not done by people who have benefits, but mostly by people from Eastern Europe. This has been the case for years, and it seems that, despite all good intentions, there is no change, which has a tragic aspect. It is therefore understandable that the previous cabinet in the Participation Act has opened the possibility for people to work with benefits. The idea behind this is that they can gain experience in a company for some time and then receive the minimum wage or collective wage. These are test placements and work experience places. These are necessary because it is unclear what the competences and skills of the person concerned are. These are not in the picture and therefore need to be experienced in practice. If I'm well informed, over the past few years, a small 10,000 people have gone to work in this way. Of course, this approach involves the risk of displacement. Displacement means that others lose their jobs or that the minimum wage or collective agreement is being evaded. It is therefore right that the Act of Participation has given the implementing authorities an obligation to avoid displacement as much as possible. How they do that, they have to decide for themselves. This is the result of the decentralised structure of the Participation Act. The initiator apparently considers that the municipalities and the UWV do not carry out this task sufficiently and therefore proposes that a central approach be taken through the introduction of a displacement test. A protocol should be established on the basis of which the municipalities and the UWV consider the possibility of displacement in each job seeker's placement. A number of questions are raised. Does a route lead to unfair competition? Does the involvement of welfare recipients lead to other conditions of employment with other staff? Does the commitment to dismiss others lead? Is there a shift from paid to unpaid work? Is the use of social assistance recipients profitable for the employer? Is it about work that has been carried out by paid forces over the past few years? These are relevant questions, but they are already on the board of the implementing authorities. The Participation Act already obliges them to combat displacement. That being the case, the members of the CDA Group wonder what the added value of this initiative law is. Why impose this central framework, where the Participation Act assumes a decentralised responsibility of municipalities and other bodies? This is also where the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the association of social services and the interest association of social workshops point out in their comments. The employers' organisations are also not in favour of the initiative law. An exception, as Mr Köhler said, is the cleaning sector. It has a specific problem: the government has decided to invest this work. She is going to do the cleaning herself again and let people with benefits take up for this. That is what the private cleaners regard as unfair competition, and rightly so. However, it does not justify the creation of a legislative proposal as general as this one. If there were widespread repression, there might be room for a legislative proposal along these lines. I can't tell from the material in front of me. There are no hard numbers available to my knowledge. The initiativer may be able to re-examine this aspect in her response. Madam President, so far. The CDA Group awaits the response with interest and looks forward to a further exchange of views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for an hour. A little longer? Then really until 5:00 p.m., an hour and five minutes; otherwise we won't make it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u57	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the legislative proposal 34325, the proposal for a law of member Karabulut amending the Participation Act and some other laws relating to the introduction of a displacement test, i.e. the Displacement Test Act. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, everyone, for your input. It is a special honour for me to be here today for the first time after nearly twelve years of being a member of the House of Representatives. You've already announced it's sweating here. Perhaps you meant: unlike the House of Representatives. Thank you all for your critical but very important questions. I would like to tell you immediately, in order to avoid misunderstandings, that I am here on behalf of the House of Representatives. As you know, this bill was adopted by a large majority by the House of Representatives; only the groups of CDA, Christian Union and SGP voted against. So as much as I would like to reflect on our party political positions with all kinds of groups and senators, I am not going to do so here. It is now the initiative legislative proposal to prevent the displacement of paid labour by unpaid labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u59	It is my perception that the VVD also voted against in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u60	Oh, did I forget to mention you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u61	Yeah, well, that could happen, but then we've added to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u62	You didn't mention the VVD. It's a big fraction, isn't it, the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u63	Yes. I look forward to convincing Mr Van de Ven here, who knows! Mr. Chairman. Before answering the questions of the various political groups and senators, I would like to briefly consider the background and purpose of this legislative initiative proposal. As you know, after a long battle and a great deal of blood, sweat and tears in the Netherlands, we agreed on an untouchable principle, namely the statutory minimum wage. When you work, you get the legal minimum wage. You can't pay underneath that. Or, if you work through a collective agreement, that includes the collective agreement function wage. Displacement of paid jobs by unpaid jobs undermines this principle of civilisation. Not only that; it also promotes unfair competition, keeps people trapped in benefits and leads to the loss of real jobs. Real jobs that, as we know, still hundreds of thousands of people are looking for. Mr. Chairman. This initiative proposal is nothing more than an elaboration of the existing law. The aim is to pre-check pathways under the Participation Act, the participation places in the WW and social return for displacement of paid work through unpaid work. In other words, the legislative proposal is an elaboration of the provisions of the Participation Act, in which it states indeed, several senators gave it to the prohibition of displacement. And yes, it is well known that former Secretary of State Klijnsma was not in favour of this initiative legislative proposal. It is all the more important to note that despite this criticism and despite this opinion, a large majority of the House of Representatives felt it necessary to vote in favour of this bill. Once again, I am standing here today on behalf of my fellow Members of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I shall come back to a number of points in detail, but I would like to start with the point that several groups actually asked all the groups: what is the issue now, what is the problem? Let me start with a few recent examples. Fred lost his job as a reporter at the Brabants Dagblad and had to re-integrate through the municipality. After 32 years in permanent service, he was forced to pack candy pizzas for a well-known manufacturer in a workspace to get work rhythm. Fred is not satisfied because he is not supervised, unsupported and uneducated to work. He does work for which he is paid but is not paid the statutory minimum wage or the collective wage. That is a very recent example. Björn from Lelystad, 34 years old, has been trained as a pastry chef and has been working since he was 16. His last paid job was as a forklift driver, but after a reorganisation he got out on the street to work a lot for a lousy benefit. He says, "I've been working about 32 hours a week for €641 net for years now." I wouldn't do it to him, and if I did it to him, I wouldn't be able to make ends meet. "Now I have been placed at the parking service in the bicycle shed to guard bicycles. That's even more boring, but they also want to oblige me to show up at night and at weekends, still unpaid. And nothing is done for you: no guidance, no education, nothing." Mr. Chairman. I can go on like this for a while. I will not do that, but I can tell you that I have spoken to people over the past few years, and not one, not two, but several people, who have worked for decades, are in the sixties and who have been sitting in front of me with tears to tell me that they have to do the work of others at this time, which others need, without getting pay. That is not only unfair and not only undermines the principle of working for the legal minimum wage and the ban on displacement, but it also makes people small and it keeps people poor. That is not the intention of the Participation Act. Mr. Chairman. Then something about the basis of this bill. Many already recalled: the Participation Act has not yet been evaluated, you started this in 2015; how is that possible? This phenomenon is not new. I remember when I started in the Lower House, we already had the Work and Assistance Act, which indeed extended the possibilities to re-integrate people. Even then, there were many signs of displacement. At the basis of this bill is a motion, adopted by the House of Representatives, the Hamer/Kerstens motion of 2013, which asks for rules of the game to be formulated with measures and objective criteria, in order to prevent and monitor displacement as much as possible. Municipalities are responsible. Thus, we do not detract from the decentralised nature of the Participation Act. In fact, I have my ideas on the Participation Act, but again, that is not what we are talking about today. We have joined the Participation Act, so municipalities are responsible for implementation, control and supervision. In this sense, we do not undermine the principle of decentralisation. Following consultation in the Lower House in the examination of the initiative proposal, the law has been amended on three points. A number of groups had questions about this. Indeed, disabled people who are helped to work through labour costs subsidies are excluded from this bill. That's what I was supposed to do. That was unclear. We have clarified that in the law. The period covered by an agreement has also been shortened from five to three years. And around supervision is connected to the existing instruments. That brings me to the individual issues. And I'm sorry, I've had a lot of questions. I'd love to answer them all individually. I'm not gonna be able to do that, given the short time I had. I will try to do as much justice as possible to all the groups. A lot of questions also came together. I'll start with the reason for the bill, then the need, implementation and enforcement, to end with the supporting evidence, the evidence you all asked for. The background of several speakers asked for this is the Participation Act, but as mentioned above, it is not limited to the Participation Act. That motion was adopted in December 2013. We have tried to implement the motion by means of this bill. Several groups asked who we spoke to. In the run-up to this legislative proposal and in the process of drafting it, we spoke to many parties involved, who also took action this afternoon, but also, of course, municipalities and employers, council members, interest groups, about the question: how do we solve this displacement? I have to admit, quite frankly, that there are differences of opinion on this issue. What is positive is that everyone, on the left or right, employer or employee, trade union or employers' organisation, is opposed to repression. Everyone acknowledges that the problem exists and everyone wants to do something about it. We have tried to find an answer to these problems. It's not for nothing that the cleaners support our law. The same applies to the cleaners, packers and workers in the care. So is the FNV. In a number of discussions with SMEs-Netherlands there was certainly understanding, although SMEs-Netherlands as an industry organisation did not wish to speak in favour of the law. They have a wait-and-see attitude. Mr Kok van de PVV asked: why would municipalities use this bill to test for displacement? After all, they are already obliged to do so and they do not do it or do not do it sufficiently. Some municipalities do, others don't, but it's a problem. With this law, we give an impact on the definition of "displacement" and then, through AMvB, we work out how municipalities should develop them in their own regulation. That's the difference. This obliges you municipalities to check in advance. Mr Schnabel asked why we choose to limit the possibilities of municipalities through a general measure of governance. That's just the way you look at it. On the contrary, we did not want to enter into decentralised powers. We don't. What we found was that there was a lack of a framework, of rules. This was also noted by the inspection in 2015. There was a gray area. To this end, in this proposal for an initiative, we have sought to set out a number of principles for local authorities to work on. We're not gonna fill that out for them. It is the framework, also through an AMvB, but then it is the city council that develops it in collaboration with the municipal government. Of course, all parties in their labour market region can be involved. I would not call that centralization, but rather an elaboration and clarification of the existing law. I sensed in a number of groups the feeling that there would be a contradiction on the subject of repression between the interests of employers and workers. I have, for example, spoken to small gardeners who are incredibly uncomfortable with the repression practices, like the cleaning bosses or indeed, in production work, because that work is needed for people at the bottom of the labour market who are looking for that job. If we are going to compete with that again... This is not in the interests of employers. That is not in the interests of the workers either. And indeed, there are a lot of employers who simply want to pay the collective wage to their employees neatly, but that is what we have to guarantee and guarantee with each other. I mentioned the examples at the beginning. The PVV Group, Mr Kok, called it an unemployed carousel. If municipalities keep people in small jobs from route to route, without investing in sustainable reintegration, this is also not good and certainly not effective for public policy in the longer term. As part of the compensation, the Participation Act provides for unremunerated socially useful work which does not lead to labour market displacement. A similar wording has been introduced in the law in the deployment of participation places. Here too, this work must not lead to labour market displacement. But this is what's on paper in the law. Research and practice really show that displacement is accepted to some extent. The research I have already mentioned, from the 2015 Inspection SZW, shows that the concept of "additionality" is often pragmatically applied by municipalities and that this is often a grey area. The inspection blames this on the lack of detailed policy instructions. Finally, the inspection concludes that municipal councils hardly play a role in the development of control of policy against displacement. This is also contrary to the idea of the Participation Act, which, of course, assigns a greater role to municipalities and municipal councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u64	Could Mrs Karabulut perhaps give a few examples of additional work which does not replace paid work? Or are we just thinking of something, additional labor, which is actually always pushing out paid work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u65	No. Additional work therefore means additional work on the existing work. For example, social return. Indeed, the PSO ladder that TNO has been working on for years offers a well-developed framework. This creates additional scope for disabled people, in consultation with employers, without displacement. Additional work is also that in a nursing home you do not fire the coffee ladies who are employed, but on top of that you create extra places for job seekers who in one way or another should be able to make experience and/or rhythm and/or contact with people as part of an individual guidance and training plan. That would be a form of additional labor. What is not additional and therefore leads to displacement, is the example we had of Harrie the street sweeper here in The Hague, who was fired, who was simply employed by the municipality, a street sweeper who was fired and had to do less of that same work a while later for €400. Then there's displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u66	I understand. But another example has been mentioned: Mr. Köhler's mailman. Imagine if that person learned to deliver mail. No matter how you turn it or turn it around, every letter you bring around is normally paid work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u67	No, that's a very good example. I'm glad you're asking me this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u68	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u69	Of course, Mr. Chairman. How could I forget? When a person has to learn to function in an organisation, such as the Post, in the context of reintegration, no direct production is expected of them. From the municipality you have certain goals, about which you make agreements with the employer, but in other words that employer is not dependent on the worker's production to get his affairs in order. And otherwise you have a normal relationship of authority, you have a contract, you have to perform. In that case, it's regular work. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u70	Let me take a look back at a block earlier, in which you indicate that there is no centralisation and that there are still a lot of choices left for local government. Yet you can see in the bill all the articles: this is further elaborated at AMvB et cetera. This includes the displacement test, implementation and application. Could Mrs Karabulut perhaps outline what is regulated at the central level and what is then left to the municipal administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u71	I will come to the execution, but I can take an advance on that because you are asking. I'll be able to be a little shorter later. What is centrally regulated are the criteria. The AMvB sets out the broad lines of how municipalities should define them in their regulation. The regulation itself sets out how municipalities will assess how they will maintain and monitor this. We have opted for the AMvB, because possibly following developments in the labour market something is no longer a problem, allowing you to delete or add parts, so that both Chambers can be involved. Furthermore, I have answered that question in advance and asked you and others about the execution test. Via an AMvB you can also look at which parts of the execution you have to take into account. The aim is therefore to lay down as much as possible, apart from the criteria and the fact that it is necessary to examine them, with the municipalities. I was still with the need for the law. Displacement was subsequently recognised and then acted instead of that displacement was prevented, which was the objective in every law and is in the Participation Act. I know that there are a number of aldermen and ex-aldermen here, with whom I also have close contact with my own party. It is claimed that local democracy would not work, or that we would not have confidence in the municipalities. As can be seen from research carried out by the inspection and trade unions and from the many practical examples, there are often no clear frameworks and criteria, with the result that too often there is a need to be cured, rather than prevented. Then I'm not talking about all the cases we don't know about. I've been social affairs spokesperson for 11 years. I know a lot of groups; I know the social services well; I know people who are long-term dependent on benefits and/or lay off are quite good. There are a lot of people who, thanks to the tightening-up of laws and regulations in recent years, are once again experiencing more and more pressure and are therefore unable to express themselves freely. We received a new booklet from the union this afternoon, a booklet I haven't been able to read yet. Since these rules are not clear in that grey area, new examples are still emerging. Legal anchoring of what is displacement, because that is what we do, provides a clearer framework. The House of Representatives does not want new, comprehensive legislation, we just want to clarify the concept of "displacement" and a mandatory regulation, so that municipalities and municipal councils can review and control the existing laws. Municipalities have and continue to play an important role in the implementation of the Participation Act. The implementation and control of the Participation Act rests with the municipality and remains so. Mrs. Sent asked if, if this is further worked out, you wouldn't go crazy. Aren't you going to unnecessarily hinder municipalities to re-integration and achieve their goals? I don't think so. This is really explicitly intended to give municipal councils more opportunities to test against the existing criteria of the Participation Act and to achieve a strengthening of that local autonomy. The consideration and the places of participation must not lead to displacement. That is the guiding principle, which means that we can make consideration or participation places or reintegration or whatever routes you have these days, because there is a whole series of things that I also have my opinion on, but that is not what we are talking about today, not impossible. It is really about testing for displacement and securing that review in a municipal regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u72	Could the initiator indicate on the basis of which she considers that effective reintegration instruments are not blocked, in response to the present legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u73	Ideally, I wouldn't be standing here. Of course, I find it very interesting and it is very honorable to be able to defend an initiative proposal on behalf of the House of Representatives, but I would have preferred that which is now in the law, namely that the displacement of paid labour by unpaid labour should not be carried out. We know by now, also through research of the inspection and all kinds of other studies on which I shall come back later, that this is not the case, and that this is an effect of the concept of 'displacement' and not at all a limitation of reintegration possibilities. To be honest, however, I do not have any justification for this, and I know that you are quite right to say that it will strengthen that real integration, with which I started my speech. Municipalities that are not yet aware of this will be much more aware of the reintegration paths, which unfortunately, as we know from the past few years, still need to be improved. I think this could strengthen that development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u74	I'm a little off track. Mrs Karabulut says she speaks on behalf of the House of Representatives. I thought when she said "we" before, that was the pluralis fashionstiae. That leads me to the next question. If a Minister or a State Secretary in the Lower House receives a bill and then goes to the Upper House, is he there on behalf of the Lower House or is he there on behalf of the Government? In other words, who are you representing at the moment? Is that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u75	I'm not a member of the cabinet yet. Who knows in the future; I can't rule that out. But I'm standing here on behalf of the House of Representatives. This law is an initiative of mine as a Member of Parliament, which I may have been able to defend in section K, but for which I needed the support of a majority of the House of Representatives, which I have fortunately received. Now I'm also trying to get your room to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u76	Thank you very much for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u77	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the execution. Many groups have rightly asked a lot of questions about this. So I will not be able to answer them all, because some of them fall within the competence of the effect, but I will answer the questions as much as possible. Once again, in the implementation of the law, municipalities have every room. There are two requirements. It is necessary to adopt a regulation indicating when there is displacement and how it is assessed. On the basis of these criteria, the municipality must check. This is done on the basis of the motion tabled in December 2013 by Mr Kerstens and Mrs Hamer of the Labour Party in the Lower House. How large and with which partners exactly this happens is up to the municipality. For example, I can well imagine that the test of displacement will be coordinated in the labour market regions and that parties, such as employers, trade unions and, of course, the job seekers themselves, will be closely involved. As far as I am concerned, all the additional measures and initiatives are more than welcome. The displacement test will help. There is, after all, a clear framework for falling back on which municipalities, companies and beneficiaries can draw each other's attention. Mr Kok van de PVV, Mr Schnabel van D66 and Mrs Sent van de Partij van de Arbeid had many questions about the restriction: does this now restrict the room for manoeuvre of municipalities? In the direction of these groups, I would like to say: no, on the contrary, I believe that this will strengthen the position of municipalities and municipal councils as final auditors. On the basis of the criteria for displacement laid down in the municipal regulation, a test consisting of about six questions, as set out in the explanatory memorandum, is thus drawn up. The city needs to check the following. Does a route lead to unfair competition? Does the involvement of welfare recipients lead to possible dismissal of current employees? Does the use of people on welfare benefits lead to changes in working conditions in the current workforce? There are examples of this; I will be able to mention them later if I so wish. Is there a shift from paid to unpaid work, for example because the vacancies are not filled? Is the use of welfare recipients profitable for the employer? Does the trajectory include work carried out by paid workers over the past three years? At the start of the journey or if there are a number of similar routes with one employer, these six points will be examined with the organisation or company concerned. How this happens is up to the municipality and the labour market region. A municipality can choose to pour this into a contract or to use a simple checklist. In doing so, the municipality is dependent on the information provided by the organisation or company concerned. The review of displacement can therefore take place within existing discussions. Actually, I've already talked about the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u78	Just a few more moments in addition to my previous question. The bill also states that the AMvB relates to the application of the displacement test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u80	So that's where my question came from. You say that the city council can give its own interpretation. What provisions in the AMvB do you provide which nevertheless provide a framework for the method of application? That's a bit of a performance, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u81	I mentioned, for example, the routes that are or are not covered by this. We are clear about this now, but it may be that this will change in the future. It must, of course, be said that municipalities make the regulations. For the rest, this will have to prove a little bit when the AMvB is being developed, but as far as I am concerned, that is very broad. This implementation should therefore be carried out as far as possible by the municipalities and should be in line with the participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u82	You are actually describing very comprehensively what will have to be done. That was exactly my concern in my contribution: that it is going to be so incredibly complex. You bring forward a lot very quickly, but it's not simple, if you realize what this means on a case-by-case basis. In my view, there is a simple answer to yes or no, but it is quite clear that this actually calls for a study per situation and per route to determine whether or not there is displacement. The question then is, of course, how many more cases such a route is going to take and what costs it will incur. I specifically asked you this question because the explanatory memorandum to the draft law actually said that it was not so bad and that it would not be so much. But the intellectual complexity of your questions is not small. Both employers often have small employers, as you yourself pointed out, as well as our approximately 350 municipalities, which have a rather heavy implementation task, this requires quite a lot. So I'm going to give you this concern of mine after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u83	Yes, I will dwell a little longer on the relationship between the displacement test and reintegration pathways and learning pathways, but I do not think you should make it any bigger than it is. It's a displacement test; it's not a displacement study and it's not a displacement book. However, I would like to point out that repression is already prohibited in the current law and that this is actually included in the current work of municipalities. And yes, others indeed gave examples of municipalities that really handle this very well, but there are also a lot of examples of municipalities that do not want to do so, but because they do not have the framework that does not have that effect. So it is actually a hand-out and an instrument that we offer to municipalities. In my opinion, Mr Köhler said that this is actually an age-old problem, which existed long before I became politically active and before I grew up. The tension between helping and re-integrating people into work, whether subsidised or not, without compromising existing jobs, has been for decades. I note that, with the latest developments, in recent decades, with the Work and Assistance Act, the Participation Act and the extension of the possibilities of re-integrating people, with all the subsidies and facilities that have been provided, such as the consideration, participation places, apprenticeships and traineeships, the likelihood of displacement has only increased and the uncertainty has increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u84	Can I ask everyone to hold the debate through the President one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u85	I did, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u86	No, because you kept saying "you" and by that you meant Mrs Karabulut. Mrs Karabulut does the same and others did the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u87	Well, excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u88	I am not really awake about it, but it would be nice if you could just conduct the debate through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u89	Excellent, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to point out... No, let me rephrase. It would have been interesting to get a picture of their costs and their commitment among the municipalities that do so so well. And is it also effective? These are, of course, the questions that have been asked not only by me but also by a number of colleagues: is there not the risk, in all good intentions, that this law will work exactly the other way around what you are actually trying to achieve, and that you will ultimately refrain from doing so? If there are some very nice examples, Mrs Karabulut gave that to herself, it would have been nice to get them in the stories we have had about them, but we have not actually got any information about them. That is a pity at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u90	Well, I can say that in the region of The Hague, together with employers, municipalities and benefit recipients, we are working on a kind of test and that there is pressure on other municipalities, in fact from the bottom up. But once again, checks on displacement should already be municipal practice, and that is too often not the case. But that makes me repeat myself. Then the relationship with reintegration paths and learning pathways. When adopting the Participation Act, the legislator assumed that pathways for participation and reintegration are possible without displacement. We are behind that; we think it can be done. Within the legal framework of the displacement test, a beneficiary who needs a lot of support and assistance can be offered a reintegration path in a company. This is indeed additional and based on a reintegration plan. The conditions are that he or she is not going to carry out any work previously done by paid workers, that this does not affect the company's paid employees and that the work is not, however, profitable for the company in question. In the latter case, there would be an ordinary relationship of authority and an ordinary job. Let me give you a small example that also took place not so long ago. We all know that we have great problems in helping some of the jobseekers to get a real job. The status holders are such a group because of their backwardness and their background. There are good examples of status holders being helped to work, for example to learn the language, but we also received examples in which a municipality had status holders who were not yet dependent on a benefit under the guise of a language course filled courses with a large company. The status holders who worked there for five years were then put back in hours with their wages. Yeah, of course that's not the point. We are not getting anywhere in this way and the number of jobs is not increasing. As I said, it is very important that individual agreements are made. Mrs Sent mentioned the Socialer Entrepreneurship performance ladder. I think that is a fantastic instrument. This bill will not put the instrument in the way. In fact, I wish everyone would fill it out that way. I also know that it is very much about the disabled and they are in any case excluded from this bill. Even though, for example, the Monitor proved that things sometimes go wrong, the idea behind the PSO and social return is that you create extra jobs for groups that don't work otherwise. That is exactly what we want to achieve. What is also covered by learning work is the situation in which people are allowed to participate in a company through an individual learning-work guidance plan without requiring hard production standards. Additional space has also been made for this in consultation with the employer and the municipality. When you simply run production in a relationship of authority, there is an ordinary job. In the case of reintegration, a person must be trained, for example, into a box filler, into a work of production or into a caretaker. Unfortunately, there are also examples in the care sector. The problem is he's in displacement. We are concerned with preventing and assessing displacement. So there is displacement when paid work is taken over by unpaid work. Of course, you can and will have to ask employers all the more to participate in reintegration products. It must be about guidance, coaching and support. I know that these employers also want people to be well supervised and supported. I also know that this can be done better in practice and that it is being worked on. Then I come to the investigations and the justification of the bill. I'll be very honest with you. I have mentioned a number of investigations twice in the legislative proposal and then in the written reply. That was indeed not scientific longitudinal research, but it was sufficient for us to see and recognise the problem and to see the need for this legislative proposal. The report "Municipal attention to displacement by welfare recipients" commissioned by the Ministry of Social Security in May 2015 is actually the most obvious study. We have several investigations from the FNV and the CNV. There are black books, white papers, monitors and other examples. And of course there are the experiences of the municipalities with the Participation Act. We also have the first and second measurement commissioned by the Ministry of SZW and there is the research into perspective on sustainable outflow from the WW. That dates back to 2008. The study "Municipal attention to displacement by welfare recipients" of the SZW Inspection of May 2015 also shows that there is hardly any active role of the city council in the development and monitoring of policy on displacement. This study shows that directors and customer managers sometimes accept displacement of paid labour and that it is often not tested whether reintegration leads to displacement of paid labour. The SZW inspection therefore concludes that the concept of "additionality" is often applied pragmatically by municipalities and that this is often a grey area. In 2014 and 2015, the FNV conducted research into displacement due to non-wage work. That's what 500 people were involved in. Nine out of ten people who participated in that research indicated that paid colleagues had to give way to people who had to work while retaining benefits. 41% of participants who were offered such a course had to work more than 30 hours a week and had little time to actively engage in finding a paid job. Research into the initial experience with the Participation Act also shows that displacement and competition between target groups is the second biggest concern of municipalities. I believe that Mr Ester of the Christian Union or Mr Van Kesteren of the CDA also pointed that out. As many as 65% of the municipalities see displacement as a risk. Why wouldn't we want to avoid that? Research carried out by the CNV in 2014 showed that in some cases welfare recipients take the place of nutrition assistants in the care of the elderly. I have already mentioned the example of the status holders, and we can go on for a while. I realize, my dear senators, that this is not the investigation you want from me. After all, I had already mentioned this and I had already offered it to you. I believe that the scale of the problem is becoming very clear. I think it is also a very big problem, especially for the people involved. Go ahead: work under the statutory minimum wage, sometimes after 30 or 40 years of work experience. I think the investigation of the inspection makes it clear that there is a need. I think that local authorities also show the desirability of further rules. What are we talking about? Actually, on the implementation of the current law, on the review of displacement, which is already prohibited by law. It is indeed not an extensive longitudinal scientific research. I've listened to you all very carefully. I heard the critical chamber. I don't think I can convince you at this point. I would like to propose that this debate and the debate be suspended so that I can carry out further research into the extent of displacement through the Participation Act. Then I hope to be able to convince you with the results of the investigation and I hope that we all get very excited about this bill. That would be my proposal to this Chamber, Mr President. That brings me to the end of my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u91	If I understand Mrs Karabulut correctly, she has actually come to the conclusion that the justification of the legislative proposal for individual cases is an incalculable number for us and a kind of abstract exercise. It would therefore like to come up with a more detailed study of the seriousness of the problem in society. That seems to me to be an excellent idea and I would support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u92	Can I understand these words in such a way that Mrs Karabulut will also involve the evaluation of the Participation Act in the response that is still coming to us? Or will this study take place earlier than the evaluation has taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u93	I still have that exercise to do, but I'd really like to do a good investigation as soon as possible. As far as I am concerned, this does not have to wait for the evaluation of the Participation Act. I'd like to join your wishes. I would like to respond to your wishes and the need for further justification. I'm going back. This is the homework we've been given. I am going to look at how and when we can have that done. I hope to return to your room as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u94	The conclusion that you yourself are drawing seems to me to be very sensible. Let me stress that we are all very convinced of the problem. If it really is such a big problem that you share with us now, then we really need to deal with it very seriously. We agree on this from left to right and from right to left. I would have liked to make the connection in my second term, because I also think it is important. I would like to give you the opportunity to address the scientific community as well. There is, of course, a lot of knowledge about how displacement works. I told you, it's a complex issue. I would like to give you a look at whether they can advise you and help you with that. I would also like to ask, perhaps also through the Secretary of State, to involve the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau or the Central Planning Bureau, because they have enormous knowledge about the labour market and hopefully also about displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u95	I'll be sure to. I can promise you that I will not conduct the investigation myself, although I have a scientific background, but that aside. But it's not like we don't have any scientific research at all. There is also a study by the UvA that describes, for example, that reintegration pathways are often not designed as reintegration, but often because people need to get out as quickly as possible. This has the effect of getting people locked up in the work they're doing at the time, because there's no eye for helping them get to work. It is therefore not the case that it is not based at all on facts or further research. Just... I heard you right. You don't think it's enough. I think I might be able to convince you with further investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u96	My group does not in itself need further research. We are sufficiently convinced that it is necessary to tighten up the test on displacement within the Participation Act. But if the author of the bill says that, in order to convince the Chamber, she would like to come forward with additional research into the current state of affairs, who are we to deny the initiator? So I see that she is proposing this and asking for arrest. Of course, my group has no further objection to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u98	Of course, my group also has no objection to you holding up this bill and doing further research. Moreover, I would ask you not only to look at municipalities, but also to see what this means for employers. More employers' organisations than you have mentioned today have been positive about this. That's one. The second is that you have very clearly stated that you are not here on behalf of Mrs Karabulut and not on behalf of the SP, but on behalf of the House of Representatives. I can therefore imagine that you should first ask in the Lower House if you are allowed to conduct an investigation. If it isn't, I'd like to hear it. But it's just a question for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u99	At least through the chairman, Mr. Schalk. At least through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u100	That's what I thought, Madam President. My question to you, Madam President, is whether Mrs Karabulut can answer the question whether she should first go to the House of Representatives for an inquiry or whether she should do so with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u101	I'm going to see how that investigation is going to take place. I would like to point out that I am here on behalf of the House of Representatives and that the House of Representatives did not consider it necessary to carry out further investigations. But I am convinced that I will be supported by my fellow roommates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u102	I think it's a little complicated. I understand that you are actually saying: I am keeping this bill; so it is not gone, because I will return to the Chamber when that investigation is carried out. This would mean that a kind of advance is actually being made on the evaluation or that the evaluation is actually being started. It seems to me that this is primarily a task for the Secretary of State. She has to do that. I am therefore very curious to see how the Secretary of State looks at this. We will also need resources to carry out such an investigation. Because, of course, it's easy to say that we're going to do an investigation, but that takes time, manpower and resources. Given the complexity of this investigation, that may well be reasonable. In itself, it is actually fine to start with that already. The intention was to come up with an evaluation in 2019, I say it out of my head. The sooner that can start, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u103	Thank you for the trust, Mr. Schnabel. I will see how this investigation can take place. It makes natural part... Mr. President, excuse me. I thank Mr Schnabel for his trust. The investigation is part of this initiative proposal, so I will see how and when that investigation can be concluded. I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible and return to your Chamber. Then I hope to continue the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u104	I would like to express my support for the initiativer's proposal. I would like to tell her that it would help our Chamber if it also addressed the question of which instrument is most effective in countering unwanted displacement. Is the displacement test the most effective instrument in that? It is up to the initiator to take this opinion, but if that were to be considered, it would help the Chamber to be convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u105	Our group did not need further research, because it is clear how big the problem is at the moment. We're looking for solutions to that. But I understand the decision to increase support here, so I respect...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u106	The decision is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u107	Yes, but I understand Mrs Karabulut's proposal for arrest. I'd be happy to agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u108	I would like to thank Mrs Strik, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u109	The PVV group does not really need further research either. I want to say that explicitly. We heard the Secretary of State. We can and should, of course, agree, through the President, to carry out further investigations. We would, however, like to insist on an early additional examination of what is already there. We have already seen an outline of the dynamics of the labour market and the seriousness of the situation. I think we cannot wait for the final evaluation, which would only take place in 2019. In that context, I asked another question to the Secretary of State. Would it be real to talk about a final evaluation by 2019? Once again, we would like this study to be carried out as soon as possible, however complete you want it to be. Maybe we can get an insight into the research assignment you want to take on in advance. We'd like to be further informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u110	I would like to thank Mr Kok for this suggestion. The PVV Group can assume that I will do my utmost to get back to your Chamber as soon as possible with the research and the research results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u111	I've come to ask the Secretary of State. During the debate a lot of questions were asked to the Secretary of State. There is now a proposal from Mrs Karabulut to enforce the bill. She wants to start an investigation. It is her right to make that proposal to the Chamber. I'm getting back from the Chamber the sound they want to support. However, I would like to ask the members of the Chamber whether this also means that they do not want to have an answer to their questions to the Secretary of State at the moment. Yes or no? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u112	I would appreciate it if we could at least get answers from the Secretary of State to the questions asked to her, so that Mrs Karabulut can also take them with her if she sets up her investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u113	Thank you. I see Mr Schnabel nodding. I'll take a look at the others. Secretary of State, I understand that it would be very much appreciated if you would now, in the first term, answer the questions put to you. After you have finished that, I would like to put to the Chamber a final question as to whether she can agree with the initiativer's proposal to arrest the bill. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps you will allow me one more question to clarify, so that I do not take more time from you than I need. I had, of course, prepared a response which also weighed the initiative proposal. A number of questions also referred to this. Does your Chamber appreciate my full input or that I only address the questions explicitly asked to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u115	I'll take a look at the room. Do you want the whole answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u116	Because I just reacted first, I'm doing it again. As far as I am concerned, the questions put to the Secretary of State are really very specific and not the whole treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u117	Okay. Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u118	The same applies to me, because I appreciate that the Secretary of State will weigh it up as soon as we have all the information from the initiator; so after the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u119	I can imagine that the Secretary of State will answer the questions in a limited way. We may be able to return to the issue in a broad sense in an oral discussion. Then I really mean the Participation Act, the Work and Security Act and the activities you intend to undertake in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u120	Then it is up to the Secretary of State to find a way out of the comments that have been made on the answer she will give in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u121	Yes, Mr President, that puts me in a bit of a difficult position, because I had a number of questions intertwined in the speech, but I'm going to do my best. It may be that here and there I go outside the framework of the questions I have been asked. In that case, if the bill is resumed, I may repeat it here and there, but I will try to serve your Chamber as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u122	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u123	First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak here and to answer the questions that have been asked. I will try, as I have said, to limit myself to that. I'm gonna try to finish the questions in chronological order. And then I will start with Mr Kok of the PVV group. He asked about the flow from the Participation Act to "real jobs," as he called it. He indicated that half of the people in the welfare service think they can't get to work. He asked for my response to that. I would like to say that the good economy currently offers opportunities for people with benefits. We also see a decline in the number of people in welfare. In 2016, 84,000 people went to work. But that is without prejudice to the fact that it is extremely important that municipalities should also know their people. We have seen in recent research that a lot of municipalities say that a large part of their stock will not work anymore. I think it's a bad thing if you don't look at people like that, because that's often what happens. Municipalities need to know their people, I think, so that they can also think about what is needed for participation, if possible towards work. That can be from support sometimes. Sometimes it has to be tough. I would point out that municipalities have different instruments. I try to take advantage of every opportunity I have in that context, including this one. I would also point out that not all municipalities are yet making the most of the possibilities for sheltered work. There are opportunities here, even for people with a great distance from the labour market. Mr Kok also asked about the experience with the consideration and to what extent it was used. I note, also in the words of my predecessor, that municipalities have a toolbox, which should contain a number of instruments, but that they themselves deal with the extent to which they use these instruments. The mandatory consideration is an instrument in that toolbox, but municipalities have the possibility to deal with this with customization in individual situations. They must also regulate this by means of a regulation. There are indeed many discussions about it, including in the Lower House. I would like to point out that in a municipality such as Rotterdam the consideration has been evaluated and that some 12,000 people pay in return, most of whom, the vast majority of them, have very positive experiences. This also indicates that this instrument can be of great value. Mrs Sent from the Labour Party asked about the implementation costs. She asked if I agree that the real costs will only become apparent once the criteria have been worked out at AMvB and are subject to the execution test. She also asked whether the estimate is realistic. The estimated costs are not sufficiently substantiated as far as the cabinet is concerned. Municipalities expect a lot more work. The criteria must first be laid down, as the questioner also pointed out. I say to Mr Schnabel that this is not as clear an exercise as it may seem to be on paper. It is only after an execution test that it becomes clear what costs are to be covered, I would suggest. The Minister for the Interior stated in the letter that only when costs are covered can the initiative law enter into force. The Home Office pointed this out in the letter. Mr Ester of the Christian Union Group asked if I think the bill is proportionate. Forgive me if I go outside the framework of what I can say in reply to the questions put by the Chamber. I don't think the bill is proportionate. This has to do with the fact that the current legislation already has safeguards and that we are talking here about a decentralised policy area, where the powers lie with the municipalities, where the college is working and the city council is the one that controls it. In that playing field, government restraint fits in with the mandatory imposition of instruments that affect policy freedom. This is without prejudice to what I would like to say, however, that I also recognise that repression is a problem that we must address. The extent of it is not known, but we have to deal with it, because it is reprehensible and makes sure that people do not get to work where they have to, or that other people lose their jobs. That means we shouldn't get caught up in the act. I believe that a great advantage of this legislative proposal, which is also its follow-up, is that the initiator has put this issue high on the agenda and that this has also led to a lot of social debate, for example in the municipalities themselves and in an association like Divosa. This also means that, even if we suspend the discussion of the legislative proposal for a moment, I would like to continue with the agenda of repression and the fight against it in municipalities. There are good examples to be shared and hand-outs have been made, including on the occasion of the Hamer/Kerstens motion, which was also mentioned in the debate. This has led to a number of rules of the game which are also scattered among municipalities and with which they can work and, as far as I am concerned, they must. In any case, I can already promise, so that I can possibly come back to it in a follow-up, that I will have an administrative consultation with the Working and Income Committee of the Association of Dutch Municipalities next Monday. I will also report on the discussion we are having here in your Chamber and urge them to continue, whatever happens here, to put displacement on the agenda, to share good examples and to combat repression.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u124	The Secretary of State acknowledges that it is a major problem and that it needs to be addressed. It is also a responsibility for the cabinet to ensure that work pays, that paid work is done in accordance with the law and collective agreement, so that is not only a responsibility for municipalities. The Secretary of State is very keen that it is up to the municipalities to take care of this and that we will address them. What if it turns out that this appeal does not have enough effect, that every time there is repression and that no action is taken, then the counterpoint for the Secretary of State to say: yes, but then I do think that measures should be taken at a national level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u125	I understand this question very well. Let me say this: at least it is a major problem for the people involved. The initiator has described a number of situations in which people have actually had to deal with this. It's a big problem for these people in that sense. A tricky point is what the scale of the problem is and whether a legal test is the right instrument. As recalled several times, an evaluation is foreseen in 2019. I can imagine that, because this is an appropriate subject, in both Chambers, we are giving explicit attention to the subject of repression, both qualitatively and quantitatively. In addition, in anticipation of the legal treatment, because the subject deserves and requires attention in any case, I could use the coming year to see if we can give Divosa, who has developed all the rules of the game, a strong incentive to municipalities. After 21 March, there will be new lectures in all these municipalities, which will also set their priorities. It can be very good to bring to the attention of the municipalities that they are working on this and that they also have a responsibility in it. In my speech, I indicated that in several places in the current law it is stated that repression should not and should not be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u126	The Secretary of State mentions an instrument as an incentive, more from the directional point of view. But, finally, she is responsible for ensuring that that law is respected, as I have already said, and that repression is not taking place. Suppose it doesn't manage to do so by means of addressing and so on. Does the Secretary of State not see any reason at any time to guarantee compliance in any other way or to ensure that people can actually claim that right to payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u127	Where we have entered a new phase with the current Participation Act since 2015, we are dealing with a decentralised law, where the power but also the responsibility for control at the city council has been invested. I notice that this is sometimes difficult in the discussions we have at national level. This could be about language requirements, in return, the repression test and the poverty money. This comes back to different subjects. At the same time, we have said that, in addition to the rules on work and income, the municipalities also do other parts of the social domain, precisely with the aim of being able to look at people in their entirety and to have that service. So I find it very difficult to get one part out of it, although I can very well imagine the normative debate, and to impose additional restrictions so soon after we have made these laws. I think we're getting some experience with the Participation Act, among other things. I agree with spokesmen, such as Mr Kok of the PVV, who say that things are not great everywhere, but I also see very good examples. I also very much believe that before you start punishing, sanctioning and rejecting, you first have to look at the best practices and how you do it in different places. The initiator mentioned as an example what is happening in the Westland, where various organizations together with clients are looking at how to take such a test preventively. So I see a lot of room for inspiring municipalities, especially new lectures, in the preventive sense, to follow each other's good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u128	Finally, Mrs Strik, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u129	Displacement also existed before 2015. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, if it appears that there is still a great deal of work to be done, to look into the concrete way in which she takes responsibility for reducing this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u130	I can also imagine that, if we resume this debate, we will have this subject brought back explicitly. Mrs Strik also asked whether it would be appropriate for the AMvB to work out how municipalities should assess whether this is something that is up to the municipalities by regulation. At AMvB, frameworks for the application of the displacement test should be drawn up, but how detailed these frameworks should be is currently unclear. It is therefore also unclear how much freedom of policy remains for the municipalities. Mr Schalk asked what impact the better economic situation has on the development of this law and the AMvB. The improved economic situation ensures that there is a decline in unemployment, but this is without prejudice to the need for a large group of vulnerable beneficiaries to move to the labour market. We have also seen before that no matter how well things go, there is always a group of people in the Netherlands who need support. This is also the group that does not get out first when the economy attracts. In this sense, it is therefore still difficult to properly shape and implement the criteria. As you can also see from my non-verbal communication, I find the displacement test problematic for the application of effective tools for a vulnerable group. Because that is what I am concerned about, namely that a number of instruments that we now have, such as internships and practical work places, in which we actually participate in the labour market, could not pass that displacement test. That is actually also the great hesitation, in the sense that, however well-intentioned, you would throw away the child with the bathwater, which I would find quite a shame. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, those were the answers to the questions explicitly asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-eerstekamer-8.u131	Thank you. I shall put the question to the Chamber once again. The initiator, Mrs Karabalut, asked for the bill to be arrested. She has said that she is going to do an investigation, but it is not up to us to decide on this now. The question now is whether the Chamber can agree to the arrest of the bill. There are now noddings on all sides, so I note that this is the case. Then the bill will be held until further notice.
