ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on the position of regional hospitals and had arrived at the Minister's response. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Almost all the first-term speakers discussed the situation of the Treant Zorg group in Drenthe. Involuntarily, my thoughts slipped to this day 37 years ago. I sat by the phone as a graduation student waiting for the redeeming message if I would have passed. Fortunately, this was the case. Just in the break, I got another one of those calls, but now my son, because he also finished high school. This is too good to mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u3	Happy birthday to all the students who graduated. To schoolchildren who have not passed, I say: next time better!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u4	I wanted to make a friendly remark that if you've lived in Drenthe, you can still light up a lot there. Drenthe is here because of the importance that people in the gallery put in good quality care. Quality of care, safety of care and accessibility of care are important to the people in the gallery, and I think it is equally important. Earlier this week I received a call from the new commissioner of the King from Drenthe, in which she said she was busy organizing a care table, because she thinks it is important to get all the care parties in the province of Drenthe cure and care, hospitals and insurers, patient federation and residents together to talk about the vision on health care in Drenthe. She asked me to accept that view when it is finished, at the end of September, if I understood correctly. Then I'd like to go in the direction of Assen to receive that vision. I thought that was a bit of a complicated question. It is not a complicated question to accept such a vision, but I tried to imagine the specific role of the province in making such a vision. After all, we have laid down the duty of care as a role for insurers. The province neither the Empire nor the municipality can take over. Thinking about organizing care can be done in many ways. However, we do have a working system and the province is not an actor in it. Of course, the province of Drenthe will raise the question of where which care is offered. In essence, this is determined by healthcare providers and health insurers under important legal conditions. This was the start of the debate I had with the King's Commissioner in Drenthe, Mrs Klijnsma. However, I fully understand that, as a government, she believes that there should be an opinion on paper on the organisation of care. If it had not been the province, I think the Regional Consultation Acute Healthcare Chain would have taken on that role, with or without insurers. For example, we have written it down in the main line agreements, which are national agreements that are translated regionally. In this regional translation, ROAZ and health insurers have the lead, including the participation of all kinds of professional parties and the Patient Federation. I said that I understand very well that the province is working on that vision, because healthcare institutions can be seen as civil society organisations. People don't say for nothing: the hospital around here, that's my hospital. Residents ask for full and timely involvement in the discussions on planned decisions. That is actually what I have heard in the contribution in the first term. Prior to my son's call, I thought about how I could strengthen the role from myself and from here to ensure that not only the duty of care is the supportive framework on which assessment is made. In this context, health insurers and the public authorities are not concerned about how care should be organised. I do not want to know about a system change, but I am thinking within the existing system about how the government can be more closely involved in the process. Actually, here's what I'm gonna do. I believe that residents, as well as other health care institutions, should be informed in good time about a proposed change in the provision of care in the region. I'm just gonna take a break from the Treant case. In the first period, we have actually heard examples from all over the country. Early in the decision-making process and before a final decision is taken, all parties must be involved. Citizens should also have the opportunity to let the hospital know how they feel about such a change in the provision of care and what consequences such a decision has for them and for care in the region, so that the hospital can take this into account in the decision-making process. For the acute care, for which accessibility is more important than for other care, I will legally require hospitals to consult and dialogue with the usual parties: the other healthcare providers in the region, the insurers and also municipalities, including residents, to let us know what change is on the way in the decision-making process. As far as the inhabitants of the region are concerned, the healthcare provider must make an effort to remove uncertainty from residents at the time of the planned closure of an ER, acute obstetrics or general practitioners' post. It is therefore obvious that the healthcare provider also organises a meeting in which he allows residents to express their views on intended closure. In this way, residents can express their concerns and make suggestions on how they could be helped in their concerns. The healthcare provider can therefore tell the residents how to ensure that adequate and timely care remains available in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting a little despondent from this story. We can do anything in this country and we can do anything in the world. We can go to the moon, and we can go to devastating wars. Anything's possible. The money is all over the board, but as a politician or minister we are unable to do what they ask, for example, in Hoogeveen. That's what I hear back here. There they just ask: Minister, do your job and keep that hospital open. All sorts of things are being brought up. That the quality would be in danger. That there are too few specialists, not enough of this and not enough of that. I would say: Minister, organize that and don't hide behind the trial again. Say, "I'm gonna organize the trial." It's been clear what the people want for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u6	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u7	It's been clear for a long time what the obstetricians want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u8	It's also clear what you want, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u9	So you must act and act and not act as a trial manager, I say to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Van Gerven. Period. Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. It's a little tricky. You've got to start with your argument somewhere. Mr. Van Gerven is getting despondent about something. Well, you're not gonna get me despondent on this day. I would like to say later in the speech that it is not the main issue that no hospital should be closed anymore and that all the functions of all hospitals in all places in the Netherlands should always be preserved. In the coming years, we will work on a transition in healthcare. One could say that the hospital sometimes comes more from the walls of the hospital and that specialists often go to a general practitioner's practice; that some of the care that is now done in the second line is done in the one and a half and the first-line care or perhaps at home; in which we go more towards specialized centres. That's what you call third-line care, because the quality of care there can be better assured than elsewhere. These are all elements of a transition. The idea "let's have a regional hospital all over the Netherlands with all the functions it has and keeps for ever and ever" is not going to be him. Well, I guess I'll have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u12	That's gonna be him. That's what people are asking. It would be a credit to politics if this democratic demand, which is heard from all regions throughout the country, were met. You can say that care is going to change and that hospitals don't have eternal life, but we're talking about now. I recall the failure of the nursing homes. We have closed it, too, with all the dramatic consequences of that. You must not destroy hospitals by doing nothing and simply let the market go its way, let the Treant management go its own way or let the health insurance company go its own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u13	And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u14	No, the government has to regulate here to ensure that people can get the hospital around the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u15	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u16	That's what I'm asking. A acting minister, not a trial manager looking away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u17	The minister's on top of it with the tip of his nose. I'm acting by setting up a legal obligation for that early engagement. I would like to take this measure, leaving it intact from the duty of care where it belongs, namely with health insurance companies. I would like to turn my own argument a little bit, but I would also like to return to the quality of care. In some hospitals there is simply too little to do for some specialists. They move away, they want to go to other hospitals. I don't want two grades of hospital care. I do not want a quality hospital care for the Randstad and a quality hospital care for, for example, Drenthe or Goes or anywhere else in the region. I don't think that's right. I think we should continue to work towards professional quality standards that apply throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u18	Of course, I welcome the fact that the Minister is legally committed to ensuring that a proposed decision is made public at the pilot stage. However, I am missing two things in this and I would like to hear a response from the Minister. A planned decision does not mean that what the perspective is for the people for the future is also being included. I therefore hope that the Minister will take account of the fact that this decision also clearly sets out a future perspective. The second is that everyone has the opportunity to respond to that. For me, that falls more into the category "I'll inform you." But that's different than consulting and really looking for a solution together. I do not yet see the involvement of citizens and municipalities in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u19	I see, with the AMvB that we want to set up, that it is a consultation and not a notification. It is a dialogue with the usual parties: healthcare providers in the region, of course the insurers, but also the municipalities and the inhabitants. So it really goes far beyond just reporting. It is in a dialogue looking for a way of working, so that uncertainty in the region can also be removed. I think that is the point that Mrs van den Berg was the first to draw attention to this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u20	The Minister is right to say that people can generally cope with change. But uncertainty is terrible. Does the Minister therefore agree that the perspective for how this is to be resolved is part of the planned decision to be sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u21	It is not just a question of telling us what is missing from care, but also where that care is available elsewhere in the region, with the remark that this sometimes means that there is a need for further travel. But that is a question that we will have to deal with many times here. So that perspective is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u22	The perspective is part of it, but now I want to make it concrete. There is the news that people are told: the quality of care can go from an 8.5 to an 8.7, but the hospital here is going to disappear. If people say that they actually think that accessibility is more important than an improvement from 8.5 to 8.7, what is the response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u23	That's two separate discussions. But I do not agree with Mr Van der Staaij either. I think safety should be paramount. If we then have to leave a spring on accessibility, I think that is acceptable. That patient safety, those quality standards that are put together by healthcare professionals, with the involvement of the insurer and therefore the professionals and the patients, I think is a great thing. I also think it is very good that we do not set that quality standard. If Mr Van der Staaij asks, as he did in the first term, where you put the emphasis or the emphasis, then I put it on patient safety and quality standards. If that means that the choice must be made that the patient must travel safely a little further, then I want to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u24	I can imagine this in situations where, for example, mortality is falling dramatically. If it's really about basic security, then it's obvious. Then the Minister has a point. But he knows as well as I do that there are really situations where it really isn't that clear. That's where the safety's already in place. There's always something you can do to reduce the risks even further. That's inexhaustible. But you do lose a lot on the accessibility and the viability in the region. Those are the real dilemmas that arise. I'm gonna ask my question again. If that is discussed in such a consultation meeting, then what is the perspective? So what is the weighting that can take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr Van der Staaij talks about a quality standard. This quality standard always comes before the consultation on whether or not to scale down care. This quality standard always allows for a tailor-made appointment. Some of you have asked for this too. In the letter I sent yesterday, I also mentioned the word'suitable'. What's that? Can you deviate from a quality standard? Yeah, you can. In some sort of "comply or explain" clause, that is possible. It must of course be judged by the inspection, but the space for a good explanation why you explain quality somewhere a little differently than elsewhere should be within the important standard that care should be and should remain available to everyone. But such a customization, such a "comply or explain" rule, is part of that. In the case of ic, for example, an addendum is now being considered. Think of that as a "comply or explain" clause. I think the parties could be out in a few weeks, around 1 July. I know that the inspection will be happy to include it very quickly in its working methods. I think that on the one hand we have ensured the quality of care and, on the other hand, we have involved the inspection well and close to the process. I believe that this can be the best solution for the region. I do not want to anticipate matters, but I think this can be a workable solution, also for the Collaborative General Hospitals, the SAZ, and also for the Dutch Association for Intensive Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u26	I am really pleased with the Minister's commitment to work on an AMvB. That was my last question in the debate. How are we going to involve local authorities and residents? They are the primary stakeholders. So I have nothing but praise for that, but I do have a question. Perhaps the Minister has already given more or less an answer in terms of customization. Sometimes a quality standard is created, by the professionals, in which the local authorities and residents are not yet involved. That quality standard is made by the professionals. We have to keep it that way. But the result of that quality standard is that something is going to change in the healthcare offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u27	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u28	I understand that we can't put the government in a position sooner, but how can the interests of residents get a place in it? Otherwise, they are faced with a quality standard that affects care in their region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u29	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u30	I actually think that perhaps not through the mouthpiece of the municipality, but through the mouthpiece of the citizen, namely through the Patient Federation, that regional importance is taken into account when setting up such a quality standard. And I'm gonna ditto through the insurance company. That insurer is not just sitting there for its own sake, because it has to take into account the interests of insured persons. And a quality standard will only be registered by the Zorginstituut in the register if the Zorginstituut has ensured that both the professionals are in the plural, because it is a whole series of professionals.... and the patient yellowing, as well as the insurer agree on that quality standard. So I wanted to take away the idea that now absolutely never is never nothing from the regional involvement expressed in the quality standard. I just want to make that position much stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u31	We both want the latter. I have a supplementary question. Treant operates in a completely different care facility, but there were both the inspection and the health insurance company actually watching what happened. I mean, a decision was made and the health insurance company said this is new to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u32	Yes, that's what you said in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u33	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. And the inspection also said that this process did not go well. But is it the inspection that is going to supervise this? Because a legal obligation has to be met by people, but who is monitoring and how do we ensure that the inspection is involved early?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u34	I was just talking about the AMvB, which lays down that legal task in relation to early engagement. I would also like to organise a reporting obligation for healthcare providers in the same AMvB for acute care. So I want healthcare providers who intend to suspend, terminate or concentrate care in an emergency department or an acute obstetrics department to report this to the IGJ and the NZa in good time, so well before the final decision is taken. So this is different from Treant's. In this way, the IGJ and the NZa can play their full role.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u35	I hear the Minister say that I am concerned about patient safety and I am concerned about the quality of care. But can he explain to me to what extent scaling up healthcare will lead to an increase in that quality of care? In all kinds of facets in our society, you can see that scaling leads to fragmentation. I call the banks that are "too big to fail." I call merging municipalities, which ensure a greater distance from the citizen. And that's what health care is all about now. Larger mega hospitals ensure that care...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u36	What is your question, Mrs Van Kooten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u37	...can't be accessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yes, the introductions are really unnecessary; it is about the question. That goes for all of you, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u39	I asked my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u41	Maybe it's my own fault, because I brought up this legal obligation I want to add. But I would actually like to ask at this point: do you think it is right that I should answer the questions that have been asked in the order of turnout, or else we will tear the whole thing apart?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u42	Yes, yes, because in the first term there were all kinds of questions asked. It is also intended that the Minister will handle your questions carefully in the first term. Mrs. Sazias was up for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u43	I'd like to respond to what the Minister says. He says that in the transition of care, that care is cut up to excellent centers, GP posts and possibly care at home. That reminds me of the transition in the ggz, and of the huge mess and waiting lists that are in there because first that bed dismantling went like a spear, and then the outpatient care is far from ready. Does the Minister agree with me that we should at least not throw away old shoes before we get the new ones? Does the Minister agree with us that these regional hospitals are of great importance, at least until access is regulated for all this divided care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u44	The development of less second-line care and more primary care has been expressed in the main agreement on medical-specialist care. That will be a process of years. That shift will have a lot of feet in the earth. But there are all kinds of safeguards, on the legal side but also on the side of insurance companies' duty of care, to ensure that care for citizens in the Netherlands is good and remains good. That we will never have another debate on the establishment of regional hospitals after that? I do not think that will be the case. I think we still have a lot of debates of this kind, because I can imagine that it is, to say the least, getting used to in some places that care is no longer organised so closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u45	It's true, that's a process of years. Does the Minister therefore think that we should keep that network of regional hospitals in place for the time being?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u46	I just said I can't give you that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u47	I have made a plea in the first term for the possibility of customization and the provision of control space. That's what the minister just went into. He mentioned the example of what is going on now, namely two parties in consultation to try to tailor up before 1 July. I'm assuming that if things run out, the inspection won't be right outside the door. Is this customization also possible, not afterwards, not even in advance between two parties, but simply as a hospital explains "look, this way we fill that out and just meet the quality standards"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u48	This is not some kind of one-time rule that applies the "comply or explain" rule. As well as it may be that a quality standard is adjusted over time, it may also be that in a certain situation the hospital director says: in our opinion it can also be done in this way, a comply or explain. That will then have to be checked by the inspection, as usual, because we do not want it to reduce quality. But that space is there, and that is not a single point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. There are now two parties in agreement. In the Minister's view, is there always a need for several parties to agree on this? Or could it also be that one party clearly states in advance: that is how we are going to fill it out and that is how the Minister says: that seems to me to be the right way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u50	Such a tailor-made appointment will also be judged by the Zorginstituut on whether the three sections I mentioned earlier, the professionals, the patients and the insurers, are all content with that. So that's never gonna be with a single party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u51	The Minister says two interesting things. One: he wants to make it legally mandatory with an AMvB that healthcare providers involve among others residents at an early stage. Two: he says that customization is possible. How do these two fit together? Is there a connection between those two? May I interpret the Minister in such a way that he says "if residents are involved early..."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u52	Maybe it's a good thing the Minister responds to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u53	If it's clear enough, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u54	The demand for such a tailor-made appointment is part of the quality of care, i.e. quality standards. That's, you could say, always first. Is there a good quality and, if not, is there room to make that good space through customization? That will be the case with many institutions. Then we have a practical agreement there. In some cases, let me say two out of ten, it does not succeed in achieving good care, because then you have to make too many concessions to the quality. Then you get to the question of whether we should organise care in a particular region differently, for example by saying that we are going to share the emergency care or to organise clinical pediatrics elsewhere. So there is a certain coherence, but it is two temporary issues, at least in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u55	I'm asking for this for the following reason. It is of course very nice to involve residents early, but then they must be able to have real influence. And then it is important that there is also a proper weighting framework: how are the concerns and wishes of residents weighed and taken into account in the decisions of the healthcare providers? That's how I get to the customization. Because I can imagine that if they have spoken to residents and their wish list and their concerns are clear, their wishes and concerns will also be included in the search for the appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u56	No, the theme customization is part of the quality standard for me. There's a quality standard. Can there be a derogation from that? With a "comply or explain" rule, in certain situations, this should not be too much, but a little bit "too much." The quality standard is drawn up by three sections: the professionals, the insurer and the patients. These are the three denominations, but behind them many parties hide. In addition, of course, the contribution by the patients' federation is read: the citizen is possible. The insured person can also contribute there. After all, this is also a citizen of the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u57	I suggest that you continue with the questions that have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u58	Oh, Mr. Chairman, I've barely started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u59	Well, there have been a lot of questions asked about interruption. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u60	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about acute care. I would like to make one comment about the planned care. I would also like to draw attention to the forthcoming period in field parties for informing and involving all parties in the environment in changes in planned care. For that I do not have the AMvB that I have just spoken about. That is why I need the industry organisations in the care sector. They have their own governance code with principles of good governance and supervision in care. With these parties, who are involved in this code, I want to engage in a discussion to pay more attention to informing all parties in the environment in the event of a change in the healthcare offer. Mr. Chairman. We talked about getting involved early and reporting duty. I would like to make one other point. Demographic and social developments such as ageing or the increasing number of people with one or more chronic diseases or technological developments or staff shortages will really raise a lot of questions in the coming years: how are we going to target care differently? Many of you have responded to this. We also call that: the right care must be delivered at the right place by the right professional at the right time and at the right price. The needs of the patient are central and not the existing care offer. Read: it is not about maintaining, taking on its own, the hospitals; it is about maintaining good care for people. I would like to say this to you as an introduction. Then I'd like to answer some questions. There are a lot of them, but I'm going to try to do that a little bit short. Mrs Van den Berg asked whether it was true that four out of ten hospitals could not meet the new ICI requirements. I don't have that information. According to the Steering Committee dealing with the implementation of the ic Directive, in autumn 2016, twelve hospitals did not yet meet the requirement of exclusive daytime presence or exclusive evening and night availability of an intensiveist. And that's 12 out of 79 hospitals. That's the only quantitative information I have. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs van den Berg's question: how is living quality taken into account? Actually, through the way I just put it: early engagement. Because I interpret the word 'viability' as 'involvement of citizens in the region' rather than 'green roofs' or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u61	I actually want to give the Minister the opportunity to answer a number of questions and then you will have the opportunity to ask a question, Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u62	Then there is Mrs van den Berg's question as to whether the addendum means that the ic's can remain open, especially as long as the directive has not yet been registered by the Health Institute. I hope that the addendum we spoke about will be adopted on or around 1 July. What I hear from the angle of the SAZ is that one can live with the adjustment that is imminent in the addendum. As mentioned above, the aim is to offer that addendum to the Healthcare Institute by 1 July. The inspection will activate its risk-driven monitoring but will also include that addendum. So you can be sure that those new rules of that addendum, if they succeed by 1 July, will also be involved in the assessment framework. Mrs Van den Berg has also asked how the Chamber will be informed about the process between the inspection and Treant in the coming months. I have written to the Chamber that the inspection has asked Treant's board to include the quality and safety of perinatal care in the development of scenarios before a new or final decision is made. We do not have that answer, but I expect to get it somewhere this summer and then I will inform your Chamber in detail. Mrs Van den Berg also asked whether, in addition to the social cost-benefit analysis, I would like to carry out a viability analysis of the new directives. I want to set up this vitality analysis along the lines I have set out in the context of early engagement and reporting obligations. These were the questions I had distilled from Mrs van den Berg's speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u63	Yes, now Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just saying that I was pleased that the Minister wanted to lay down by law that involvement would be properly regulated. For the CDA, however, this is a bit different from the liveability impact. This means not only getting involved in the decision-making process, but also in the accessibility, employment in the region and, not least, the consequences for the rest of the chain. I mentioned the example of obstetrics this morning. The moment the E.R. is a lot further away, people just go to a hospital to give birth, which is unnecessary...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u65	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u66	I would like to know from the Minister why he does not really take a vitality test in which those chain effects are also taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u67	I didn't really know what was meant by a vitality analysis. Mrs Van den Berg is now coloring that. I thought the involvement of citizens in the region was the jumping point, and that is why I had gone into it in detail. I think that the issue of chain care is explicitly involved in quality standards. If good care cannot be provided in that one region, we have an appointment for urgent care in the sense of a standard of sensitivity of 45 minutes. If that is at risk, there is an availability contribution to ensure that this kind of care can and will remain available in the region. So I figured the chain deposit was there. Mrs van den Berg says that you should also include the issue of accessibility and employment, but I do not really know what I should do with it. I understand very well that every closure has employment effects, but as much as I can understand that doctors say: if there is not enough work for me on this specialty in this hospital, then I do not want to work there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u68	We talked about the death home construction this morning. If you remove a first aid and certain specialties somewhere, there is a downward spiral. We want to see the overall effects of such an intervention considered in advance. Let me give you the example of obstetrics. One sits far away from a hospital and the risk is that one waits too long. One knows: if I call the ambulance, then about the same is my entire risk. This is an additional problem for many people in the region and who already have a lower income, so that accidents can actually happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u69	I do not think that the latter example is a vitality aspect, but a real health aspect. That is why I propose that we take a legal measure on early engagement, as I have just explained. And with what Mrs Van den Berg explains as "death house construction," you can also reason the other way. I do not believe that we should move towards two qualities of care: one quality of care for more densely populated regions and one quality of care for less densely populated regions. I don't think that's a death home. I put patient safety and quality of care first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u70	I see Mrs Van den Berg still standing at the interrupting microphone, but I would suggest that you continue, because there are ten spokesmen who have also asked questions, including Mr Van Gerven, who is now also at the interrupting microphone. I would therefore suggest that the Minister first responds to Mr Van Gerven's questions. Then Mr Van Gerven will have the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u71	Can I make a comment first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u72	I know about what you're gonna say. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u73	No, you don't know what I'm going to say, Mr President, because I want to correct a misconception that the Minister has already expressed twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u74	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u75	That misconception is that rural hospitals, regional hospitals, would deliver B-quality if they were maintained. It doesn't make any sense. I would also like to suggest that spokesmen who advocate this in this debate would be for B-quality in rural areas. That is certainly not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u76	I am pleased that we can agree with the view that the quality of care for every Dutch citizen should be well protected. Of Mr Van Gerven's speech, I have one more question that I would like to answer. The SP wants the guarantee that the emergency care and obstetrics in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal remain open. I'm not gonna give you that guarantee. There is, as I have just said, a proposal for a decision. The NZa and the inspection shall ensure that the accessibility, quality and safety of care is ensured in the region. So I'm not guaranteeing that the emergency services and obstetrics in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen will remain open. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Sazias' speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr President, there are still questions, at least those concerning the availability allowance for regional hospitals, which have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u78	What questions haven't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u79	The question whether the Minister is prepared to introduce an availability bonus has not been answered. It's a little similar to the charge for sensitive hospitals. Can we expand that? We both agree that we want quality, but to ensure that quality in regional hospitals when it comes to emergency and intensive care, you need relatively more availability functions and that costs extra money. So that's a question from me. Let's leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u80	Let me make it clear: no, I am not prepared to create such an availability bonus. Mr Van Gerven refers to the existing availability contribution, which can be given if the sensitive standard, i.e. the 45 minute standard, is at issue. In such circumstances, a hospital can call for such an availability contribution, but we must leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u81	That 45-minute standard is a political standard. That's an opportunity argument. That's not a scientific standard. When we look at obstetrics in Hoogeveen, the obstetricians say: in acute situations you have to be able to reach the hospital in twenty minutes. You can now, if the hospital stays. If the obstetrics were to get out of there, they wouldn't be able to do it anymore. That's how it's done. So it's a political standard. This is what this is all about. If we want to guarantee quality and accessibility, then we can, but then we also have to deliver butter to the fish. So that is the question: is the Minister prepared to meet regional hospitals in order to live up to what they want to achieve?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u82	It will be absolutely priceless if, as in Mr Van Gerven's example, we work towards a standard of sensitivity of 20 minutes instead of 45 minutes. Then the whole of the Netherlands is everywhere for all disciplines in the sensitivity standard. Then we run completely empty on the availability fee. So that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u83	Please continue. I see Mr Van Gerven at the interrupting microphone and I hear him saying that the Minister is saying something that is not right. But you're out of interruptions, Mr. Van Gerven. You will have the opportunity to come back to this in the second term. Ten more colleagues are waiting for an answer. I suggest the Minister continue. I think he was with Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u84	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sazias spoke about the domino effect of small hospitals, which are becoming increasingly difficult. I'm not sure there's a domino effect. I don't think that's the case. At least I wanted to put it first: if you have the choice between leaving small hospitals intact and maintaining the quality of care, then I choose the latter. Then I come to a different distribution of resources. Mrs Sazias asked whether any other distribution of funds could contribute to keeping small hospitals open, and whether the Minister would like to discuss this with insurers. It is up to health insurers to buy care for the benefit of their insured persons. Care must be guaranteed and good. But this one isn't necessarily retained by that one health insurance company. It's not for me to tell insurers how best to buy their care. Those were Mrs Sazias' questions. Then I come to a question from Mrs Ellemeet: how has the new IC Directive been drawn up? I have explained this much more extensively in the letter of inquiry, but now we are taking equally big steps, quickly at home. That first directive dates back to 2006. The inspection then found that this directive could and should be improved. Subsequently, until 2015, the parties tried to come up with a new directive. That didn't work. As of 2016, therefore, the direction has been taken over by the Zorginstituut. The Health Institute has done so because it wants to stand up for the public interest of being present with a quality directive. Another question from Mrs Ellemeet concerns the reference in the directive to the exclusive availability of the intensivist. That's hard to reach for the smaller hospitals. How does the Minister feel about this? I think I have answered that question because I have already indicated in the letter that tailor-made work is possible in practice. Then there is Mrs Ellemeet's next question. She said that closing departments has consequences for the quality of life. For example, Mrs Ellemeet mentioned home births. She said: you say that some people may have to travel a little further; can you explain that? Let's take the Treant example. When Treant's planned decision is implemented, this means that approximately 1,300 pregnant people have to give birth to another hospital every year. They can then go to Emmen. There are also other hospitals within 30 minutes of the hospitals in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal, namely in Assen, Scheemda, Hardenberg and Zwolle. Another question from Mrs Ellemeet was: does the Minister have any idea whether the addendum will be agreed before 1 July? I don't have a guarantee, but we'll keep our finger on the wrist. It is expected that it will be possible to complete that addendum during that period. Mrs Ellemeet asked: does the Minister expect hospitals to be closed by the IC Directive? No, I don't have that image. Then the point of the medium care and the high care. Is it true there's no pay-per-view title for medium care? Is there a workable solution? I understand that the payment title is complicated, but it can simply be paid for. It is simply a question of being able to pay for this care. Hospitals make price agreements with health insurance companies. Cost differences can be taken into account, for example as a result of more intensive, or thus less intensive care. It was also a question that Mrs De Vries asked. Then there is the issue of sufficient intensiveists, yes or no. Mrs Ellemeet added: sufficient intensiveists in the region. Maybe macro, but not in the region. She said she would like that information before 1 July. I don't have it till July 1st. That's the investigation I have to do. If, on 1 July, it became apparent that there were deficits, will that directive be postponed? That is not the case. That Directive was adopted in 2016. So it took two years for the inspection to take its role. Honestly, I think so, but I have to say with a little caution that the SAZ, the Collaborative General Hospitals, will be content with the outcome, after the conclusion, on the one hand, that there are enough nationwide intensiveists and, on the other hand, that I hope parties will come out with the addendum. I now prelude a little bit on what's yet to happen, but I think the S.A.S.A. can agree with this approach. Then there is a question from Mrs Ellemeet. Can you comment on the fact that the new directive is not binding? Actually, that's what I've been talking about. The directive, the quality standard, is there, but there are also tailor-made agreements and also possible. Those were the questions I had noted from Mrs Ellemeet. Then I have questions from Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u85	The Minister states that there is indeed no payment title for that medium care but funding possible. I get back that the fact that that payment title is not there in practice leads to problems. Is the Minister prepared to take stock of the problems with the field and perhaps look at information? I do not know exactly what the solution is, but at least in practice it is difficult to pay and without the payment title. Is the Minister prepared to look into it and look for a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mrs Ellemeet does not know exactly the solution, I honestly do not know exactly the problem, but if I were to receive a letter in which the problem was written, I would be happy to make a substantive response to the satisfaction of the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u87	That's good to hear. My final question concerns the dialogue on the AMvB which the Minister intends to introduce. He's talking about a dialogue with residents. Indeed, that sounds better than one-sided information. But I ask the Minister, what does this dialogue mean? Are residents able to influence the process, the course and the decisions taken with that dialogue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yes, I believe that suggestions, ideas, views of citizens can play a role in this dialogue, otherwise there will be no dialogue. Then it's just talking to someone or something without getting a reaction. In the final analysis, however, I believe that we can then see whether this dialogue has been conducted properly, with the good parties. Then there are the questions raised by Mrs Dik-Faber, first of all: why is this insurer and the inspection in the Triant trial not properly taken into account? I think I have now gone into that point in the previous speech. Next, how does the Minister look at the occupation requirements in the new standards and the problems that this poses for small hospitals? Does the Minister see opportunities to address the concerns of regional hospitals without compromising the quality of care? I think it's either in the end picking or cable. I'd like to put quality first. If we then have to leave a spring at the point of accessibility, that is the choice I would like to make. Turning to Mrs Dik-Faber's question, will twelve hospitals which do not comply with the IC Directive be visited immediately by the inspection or will the inspection allow for other solutions to ensure that the ic can remain open without patients being at risk? On the one hand, I mentioned the issue of customization. On the other hand, the inspection carries out risk-driven monitoring. So she won't be on the sidewalk immediately at all twelve. Before the heavy regime of tighter supervision or fines are imposed, some water can pass through the sea. But it is of course important that the quality of care is good and remains good. Then the point of the addendum and the promotion that it is ready in time. Then it's the date of July 1st. I've said "about July 1st" before. I do hope that date will be met. That would be very pleasant. I'm very brave at that point. Regional hospitals play an important role in care in the right place. It was asked: how do you ensure that the interests of patients and residents are taken into account in decisions on regional hospitals? I have considered this in detail in my introductory text. Mr President, those were the questions I had noted in Mrs Dik-Faber's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u89	A brief question, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u90	I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister influence from his point of view to promote the completion of the addendum on 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u91	That is indeed a very short question. You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u92	I have a more active role. I said I'd like to tell you here today about that addendum. I heard the date of July 1st. I am not one of the parties to sign that addendum. However, from the fact that I mentioned that date of 1 July and said that I am not 100% sure of that, you may conclude that I am taking an active role in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u93	No one assumes that 1 July is not feasible. If it is not feasible, will there not be irreversible steps towards the ic's?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u94	Yes, I do. There's gonna be maintenance. Again, I do not think it will come to that, because when July 1st, July 2nd, there will be no man overboard. But if the parties do not agree with that addendum, then I do not intend to bind the inspection to the hands on the back as of 1 July. The IC Directive was agreed two years ago. So it's gotta start sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs De Vries' question about the financing of network care and medium care: is it true that there are bottlenecks there? I have just argued before, and I repeat that, in the direction of Mrs De Vries, I am not aware of these problems. That is what I said in connection with Mrs Ellemeet's speech. But I'm willing to learn and to get into it. So if I get a letter on that point, I'd rather have one answer, too. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked: can all health insurers comply with their duty of care with the adopted IC Directive? The answer to that question seems to be affirmative. I have not received any signals from health insurers showing that this is not the case. Does the Directive take account of accessibility and affordability? Is that what the Healthcare Institute is bringing along? Quality standards are established by organisations of healthcare providers, health insurers and clients/patients. Healthcare insurers and customer organisations pay attention to affordability and accessibility. The Healthcare Institute is testing that procedure. This means that the Healthcare Institute will check whether these tripartite parties have been sufficiently involved in the development of that quality standard. Then there is the state of emergency relief. The field parties submitted the Quality Framework for Emergency Care Chain to the Healthcare Institute in January. The Healthcare Institute has asked the inspection to check the enforcement of the quality framework. The inspection has considered that the current framework is not yet fully enforceable. Subsequently, the Healthcare Institute asked the field parties to adapt the quality framework. That's where we stand now. If the field parties that have drawn up the quality framework do not come out together, then the Zorginstituut can take over the direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u97	I would suggest that you answer all of Mrs Aukje de Vries' questions. Mrs Aukje de Vries then has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mrs De Vries asked if Treant could still comply with the directives because of the closure. I'm assuming that this is what we're talking about here is the sensitive standard. This is not at issue here, because it was about clinical obstetrics and clinical pediatrics. Then there is Mrs De Vries' question about the solutions offered by the national labour market programme Treant. What did Treant do to recruit pediatricians? Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Treant has taken a number of actions since mid-2017. They have approached other hospitals for support, looked at deferment of pension or early retirement of pediatricians and looked at the recruitment of new doctors through advertisements, through the Dutch Association for Paediatrics and with the help of various recruitment agencies. Furthermore, contact has been made with the UMCG in Groningen as the nearest trainer to interest upcoming pediatricians. Treant has indicated that these actions will continue and that they may not be sufficient. A further question from Mrs De Vries. How are parties involved by the Healthcare Institute in the development of quality frameworks? I think I have now addressed this question in detail. That is the question raised by Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mrs. Agema has an order proposal. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u100	We rarely experience in this house that we are having a debate that is so topical. This directive is going to be held in two weeks' time and on which there are so many concerns. I object to it being removed in this way; all questions must come at once and then the Member can ask a question in duplicate. My proposal is as follows: if the Minister gives all the answers to the Member at once and the Member is allowed to place the interruption only afterwards, do not break it down in two instalments, but allow the Member to ask all the questions. There's a lot at stake. There's a lot of concern and unrest about it. It's getting tossed off too fast right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u101	I think everyone gets the room to ask a question. I have to make sure that the questions that have been asked are answered by the Minister. I also have to make sure we stick to the schedule. I did not get the signal that colleagues were not present, especially at the beginning. Now it is the questions that remain that need to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u102	I have made a proposal to my colleagues and I would like to hear a response from them. I think it is wrong that on a subject that is so topical and that is so much of a concern, the Minister gives all the answers at once and then my colleagues are cut off in duplicate. I propose that my colleagues should be given more opportunity to intervene, if necessary in quadruple terms, and that the situation should not be cut off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u103	I know exactly how important this subject is. I happen to have been a spokesperson on this dossier for years, but I am dealing with the interruptions, Mrs Agema. I'm sorry. If I start negotiating on how many interruptions Members of Parliament may have themselves, we have a big problem. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u104	I'm allowed to make an order proposal, aren't I, Mr. Chairman? I can ask my colleagues what they think if we increase the number of interruptions? Whether we do that in three or fourfold?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u105	No. I'm in charge of the interruptions. That's in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u106	You're cutting off the debate. You're setting up an express train. You put it in the quick cooker. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u107	You had the same opportunity as everyone else. You can talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u108	Mr President, I have not yet placed an interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u109	That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u110	Yes. But I do not want to be so direct when the Minister answers ten questions in a row, but may ask a question twice on such an important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u111	You've had plenty of time to interrupt, Mrs. Agema. You didn't interrupt. Now I see you at the microphone for the first time and you will have the floor. I am not going to deal with an order proposal on the number of interruptions that Members of Parliament are allowed to have. That's in the Rules of Procedure. If you do not agree, you may amend that article. Then make a proposal to that effect. As long as it is, I'll stick to that rule. I now give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u112	I suggest we move on. I have no problem with the way you are doing it at the moment, but it takes a lot of time. We'd better use it for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u113	I'd like you to be able to respond in three at the end. I believe that Mr Agema has a point. It is an important debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u114	Sure. Everything we do here is important. So I'm not gonna do that. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u115	I come to the questions put by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that there is a possibility of tailor-made work and that there is also a commitment on consultation with the region. What I'm still looking for is this. The Minister states that quality standards are drawn up in consultation with healthcare providers, health insurers and patients. For example, they can now request a budget impact analysis. So they can ask about affordability. The question is whether they could also ask what impact it has on accessibility. I think the search for this debate is right at the beginning of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u118	Mr. Chairman. I believe that questions about accessibility of care are not ordered by any of these three sections at the Healthcare Institute, but that when drawing up the quality standard these parties themselves are the insurer and, for example, the patient organisation, which discuss whether access to care is adequately guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u119	Suppose those patients indicate that they are concerned that this will not work out, what opportunities do they have to influence at the beginning of that journey?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u120	I think that this is the opinion of the Healthcare Institute, which is looking at whether the various groups have been able to provide sufficient input into the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u121	Please continue. I beg your pardon? Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u122	This is about another point. The Minister indicated that he had answered my question which parties are now involved by the Health Institute. My question was mainly about whether there is a proper mixing of lots. Are the large and small healthcare providers involved? Are they healthcare providers from sparsely populated areas and from urban areas involved, so that you get a good mix when the Healthcare Institute is going to do the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr. Chairman. That's an interesting question that I don't really know the answer to. It's an informative question. If it's all right with you, I'd like to ask the Medical Institute to put that in a letter for all of us, including myself. With this I can inform you, so that you can form an opinion on the broad involvement of the parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions asked by Mrs Agema. What is the Minister going to do about the dilemma between good quality and good accessibility? I have, I think, argued earlier that, as far as I am concerned, quality is paramount. If a choice has to be made between maintaining the quality standard and keeping care available in each region but at a different level, then I would like to choose to make the quality good everywhere in the Netherlands and if it has to leave a spring at the point of accessibility. Mrs Agema's second question was about the quality framework for the emergency care chain. Will the inspection only be maintained after the budget impact analysis? I understand that is indeed the case. These are the questions I raised from Mrs Agema's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have heard the Minister say a few times that he thinks that quality is above accessibility and that he prefers to leave a spring for that. I've rarely heard a minister so shabby reason. In this case, it should be and-and. I also indicated the Minister's split in my speech. Quality is also often in accessibility, but also in the system. So what do you see in regional hospitals, for example? If a patient becomes unwell, a general practitioner sends that patient to emergency care and then blood is taken. For example, it turns out that someone has a very low Hb level. That's a life-threatening situation. Someone's gonna be admitted for a few days. After that, someone's going home. That's a life-threatening situation. Someone gets admitted for a few days and then goes home. It was a life-threatening situation, but for example a bag of blood or adjusting the omeprazole or any other medicine solves the situation. I can't imagine large hospitals waiting for these patients. The second concerns the intensive care of the large hospitals. That's where complicated operations are being carried out. After about four or five days, the patient goes to the incentive care of the county hospital. I can't imagine large hospitals waiting to keep these patients in the house for nine days. I don't think the Minister understood his system responsibility. Can he reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mrs Agema's question was a dilemma which she put to me. I thought I had made a clear choice: I put it on the side of patient safety and the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u128	The Minister has a very limited vision here. He also has something like system responsibility. I asked him if he could see that large hospitals are not waiting for patients from the region to come into a life-threatening situation that is easy to solve. Big hospitals aren't waiting for that bulk of patients. And large hospitals want to keep their beds in intensive care free for high-specialist operations. They are not waiting for patients who occupy nine or ten days of such an intensive care bed. From his system responsibility, he therefore makes the wrong choice. Does the Minister see that? Does he understand that it has to be en- and: and keep the regional departments open and monitor the quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u129	But and-and-and-and-and just isn't gonna work out in health care. We are working with each other to curb growth in an incredibly large budget for care. That will require a lot of effort and energy. It's about making choices. I thought I'd made a clear choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u130	With this choice, the Minister blows up the hospital care system in the Netherlands. One, because big hospitals aren't waiting for those patients. Two, because they have to keep their ic-beds available for surgery. Then you have to choose your system responsibility and make sure that those regional hospitals keep those departments open. That is why it is very important that the Minister repents over the next two weeks. The second question I asked him, which he also answered, was about the budgetary impact analysis. It will not be there until the end of 2018, while the inspection will be maintained in two weeks' time. So by the time the budget impact analysis gets there, those departments will be closed. Well, that's good mustard after dinner!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u131	I have not actually heard another question in the last part of Mrs Agema's speech. I propose that I continue with the questions put by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. She also asked what figures the Minister is interested in. Isn't it all bureaucracy and wasting money? Well, I don't think so. We have just presented a separate plan on the issue of regulatory pressure. So when it comes to whether the Minister is only interested in figures, the answer is no. That's what it's about and-and. We are working to maintain a good healthcare system in the Netherlands, but we must also ensure that costs are increased. I will argue that in many ways from this table in the coming years. Then Mrs Van Kooten's question is whether the Minister will allow doctors to be present at all times and at the same time have to do sufficient surgery. Of course, doctors have to keep up their skills. There is room for that too. Not every specialist or intensive is always present on the ic. He or she can also keep his skills at level on other days. Then there is the question: what does the Minister do to prevent bermbabys? There are no signs of an increase in obstetric problems in regions where the concentration of midwifery care has recently been achieved. In addition, the inspection supervises the safety of care and the NZa supervises the care obligation of health insurers with regard to the accessibility of care. Then I come to the question of the competition authority. Why are there problems with cooperation and not mergers? The ACM assesses both cooperation agreements and mergers under the Competition Act. Healthcare providers may work together to provide good effective care, but agreements that restrict competition and thereby harm patients are prohibited. Then to Mrs Van Kooten's question: how does the Minister intend to ensure the accessibility of care for all Dutch people? I have talked about the core of our system, namely the duty of care of insurers and the supervisory function of the NZa on that duty of care. This means that the accessibility of care is the best guaranteed, I think, in addition to the issue of keeping care affordable. We are working on this along different lines, including the main line agreements mentioned above. Mrs Van Kooten has asked for an opinion on hospitals with thousands of beds. Aren't they too big? I can't really say anything about that in general. The size of a hospital doesn't say anything about how the care is provided. I'm always concerned about quality care. Then I come to the question of how many people the emergency/acute care is outside the sensitive access standard of 45 minutes? Those 45 minutes are a rule of thumb. The people who live outside that norm live mainly in the Wadden Islands. That number has been quite stable for years, around 33,000 people. Policy is aimed at ensuring that the number of people who cannot be on emergency services within 45 minutes does not increase. There will always be fluctuations, as driving times of ambulances, for example, also depend on the crowds on the road. But the emergency services that are needed under the safe 45 minutes standard should not close, because those are the sensitive E.R.'s. That is the question raised by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u132	I keep hearing the Minister say that he is in favour of the affordability of care and the quality of care. What I wanted to ask earlier, and what I also said in my speech, is that this is not linked at all to the scale increase. What is the Minister's view that the scale increase in hospital care will make care more affordable and thus improve quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u133	I didn't talk about scaling up. Mrs. Van Kooten asked me what I think of very large hospitals. I have argued that in a general sense I do not think that much of that at all, but that I am concerned about the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u134	I was, of course, talking about regional hospitals which are disappearing more and more and about mergers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u135	I have said that I want to put quality first. If that means that some forms of care in some regional hospitals should no longer be provided in that hospital, but further away, then I think that is an acceptable choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u136	That's not exactly the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u137	I think you should try to put your question precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u138	Then I'm gonna try again. I hear the Minister say that he thinks it is a good thing if hospitals merge, that the cost of care will fall and the quality of care will go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u139	I didn't say anything. I didn't even put the whole word "fusion" in my mouth. I am concerned about the quality of care. If such care cannot be provided in a particular hospital, then the sensitivity standard will be considered, whether that acute care can be reached in another hospital within 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u140	I see Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen looking a bit difficult. Is that what you meant, Mrs. Van Kooten? I think you should try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u141	Then I'll ask another question. Is the Minister aware of all these investigations from abroad and the interior, which show that when hospitals merge, the costs actually increase by 5% on average and the quality of care also deteriorates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u142	In this general sense, I am well aware of these kinds of investigations. What we are talking about here today is the quality of care according to quality standards, established by professionals in consultation with other parties. I think it is important that such quality standards are and remain there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u143	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u144	There was one question in Mr. Kerstens' speech, namely: do you want to give regional hospitals the space to find custom solutions? The answer to that question is in the affirmative: I want to offer that space. That addendum that we discussed earlier this afternoon is such an example of what could produce customization. That was actually the only question that remained and which I had not yet answered from Mr Kerstens' speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u145	I would like to say something about that. I hear what the Minister is saying, but at the same time I note that, for example, the association of local hospitals or general hospitals does not really feel that there is a possibility of tailor-made work or that kind of control room, except for the discussion that is currently under discussion with the other group. How does the Minister really trust those club hospitals that they can actually do that customization, other than that the minister says so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u146	Maybe it would help if I let the SAZ know what it says in the letter I sent to you yesterday, in which that theme was named customization, as well. And perhaps it would also help if I spoke to the SAZ on this very point once again, also to keep a good standard in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u147	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u148	I shall now turn to Mrs Dijkstra's speech. She asked: do we know anything about the effects of the care concentrations on Meppel and Drachten? First, I'll go into the Sionsberg. In 2016, the health insurance company De Friesland decided to terminate the five-year contract with the Sionsberg in Dokkum early on 1 January 2017. In the meantime, peace has returned to the region. DC Clinics and Cardiology Centres in the Netherlands provide outpatient care in the Sionsberg for almost all specialties, and the collaboration between the Sionsberg and the general practitioners in the area is good, I hear. The lines are short and also with the municipality there is good contact. In general, I can say that the reports received by the inspection show no signs of an increase in midwifery problems in the regions where the concentration of midwifery care has recently been achieved. I have a few other questions from Mrs Dijkstra. She asked: what did you do with a standard if hospitals couldn't meet it and the standard isn't enforceable? I think the quality standard is manageable. And I believe that the tension we are discussing here this afternoon is precisely the tension between maintaining the quality standard and the space that can still be provided in it, and on the other hand, of course, the very understandable fact that people say: I like it when that concern is organized close to my home. In addition, it really comes down to making choices, and that is what the speech is about all afternoon. Let me turn to Mrs Dijkstra's question: is the argument that a deviation from an IC directive is equivalent to maintaining the current quality? What does a ruling on reasoned deviation mean? That's the question of customization. That will really have to be judged in its precision by the inspection. But I am confident that, if such a customised suggestion is put forward, the inspection will deal with it in a practical way. The question is what role the Minister has in determining the number of regional hospitals needed. Well, I have not so much a role to play in determining the number of local hospitals needed, but rather in getting a grip on it, offering comfort to the region in developing whether or not there is a deterioration or concentration of care in a region, I have tried, with the examples at the beginning of my speech, to indicate that I want to take an active role in this and not just leave it to the care obligations of health insurers. Then there is Mrs Dijkstra's question: what are you doing to ensure that there is sufficient training? In general, I provide the framework conditions with good estimates and sufficient funding for the training of medical specialists. The hospitals and the specialists are responsible for the distribution. It takes account of regional demand for training places. So far, there are no signs that fewer E.R.s and I.C.s lead to less training. In recent years, the influx to training into an ER doctor was even above the estimates. However, I do get signals about regional differences from certain specializations. To get a better grip on this, I have agreed with the NFU, the NVZ and the Federation of Medical Specialists to do that research. I've told you that before. This will be available before the end of the year. Finally, Mr President. Mr Van der Staaij's speech with two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u149	Before you go any further, Mrs. Pia Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u150	The Minister indicated: Around De Sionsberg in Dokkum I said by mistake Drachten in my term, but I meant Dokkum... no obstetric problems were detected after it was closed there. I also asked about Meppel, who went to Zwolle and other hospitals. I assume the Minister indicates that no problems have arisen there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u151	Mr. Chairman. That was actually the second part of my answer. I repeat: in general, I can say that the reports received by the inspection show no signs of an increase in obstetric problems in regions where a concentration of midwifery care has recently been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u152	Then as a follow-up: is there a limit to that? We are indeed talking about the balance between dispersion and concentration. You can keep concentrating, but obstetrics have been closed a few times. Now that's back to business. When's that gonna end? Does the minister have a picture of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u153	The best answer for the E.R. is that 45-minute standard. For that sector, we have a workable standard. Whether that is a political norm or another standard, but there we have one. I think that, with the corresponding availability contribution scheme, is a practical arrangement. For the rest, I think that such a method of reporting at the inspection gives us the best insight. By the time someone thinks that that border is being crossed, we will undoubtedly hear it again, whether or not through the inspection. But of course, that can also be done through the hospital, the Patient Federation or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u154	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u155	Finally, Mr President, two questions from Mr Van der Staaij's speech. As long as the investigation of sufficient intensiveists is ongoing, are no irreversible steps taken? On the question of whether or not the inspection should be enforced, I have argued earlier that it will start, about 1 July, because it will be visible for two years now what the directive is. If that is considered an irreversible step, you may consider it an irreversible step. It'll be taken. But I hope that, in conjunction with the addendum that is being prepared, this will not cause any more problems. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether I can see how a more refined balance can be made between quality and accessibility, as in the bill on the balance between quality and affordability. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say here: patient safety first. If we then have to leave a spring on the accessibility, that is the choice I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give Mrs Van den Berg... I miss Mrs Van den Berg. Then I'll suspend for a few minutes, five minutes tops. And then we go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u157	I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven. Mrs. Agema, order of business?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u158	Yes, order proposal. Wait for Mrs. Van den Berg? I think she's making a spiced motion for the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u159	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u160	So I'd suggest we suspend for five more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u161	No, I'm not. Mr Van Gerven...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr. President, you can't do that, can you? You're in charge of order here. There's a MP who's just making a motion. Then you're not gonna say, "Well, I'm gonna go see Mr. Van Gerven"? You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u163	Easy, Mrs. Agema. What's the matter with you? Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u164	There's more to it than that. You're starting...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u165	Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u166	You're just skipping a member of parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u167	I'm not skipping anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u168	... which has requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u169	I'm not skipping anyone. We are now engaged in a debate. This is the second term. Everyone's supposed to be in the room. I've suspended for five minutes, and Mrs. Van den Berg isn't here yet. And we are moving on, because we have a lot of debates on the list and you should just sit in the Chamber when the debate is going on. I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u170	It's okay to make an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u171	Sorry, Mr Van Gerven has the floor. Mr. Van Gerven, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to start with my term, but I would ask colleagues to sit down, otherwise we cannot have a proper debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u173	Mrs Agema and that goes for you too, Mrs Dik-Faber: this is really... Would you let me talk, please? Can you listen, Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u174	If you could just turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u175	No, I'm not turning on the microphone. I'm talking now. Do you mind if I say something? Would you like to hear what I think? We are engaged in a debate from...? What time? I'm just checking to make sure, otherwise that's another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u176	12:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u177	Starting at 12:15. That debate is taking place in plenary. Would you take it easy, Mrs. Agema? It is really not good to go into the debate with each other in this way. Just for a second. Excuse me for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u178	Your microphone is on, and ours is closed!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u179	We are engaged in a debate. The debate is on an important subject. The subject affects a lot of people. A lot of people are also following this debate. We've been suspended. We've moved on. The Minister replied. When the Minister is ready, it is customary for Members of Parliament to be present in the Chamber for the second term. Mrs Van den Berg is the first speaker. There wasn't one. I suspended for five minutes. It's been almost ten minutes and I still don't see Mrs Van den Berg. Mrs. Van den Berg is now coming running and panting. I am sorry, but for the people who are following this debate, this is not a testament to... Well, I'm holding back. Go back, Mr. Van Gerven, because Mrs. Van den Berg is next. He's in the room. Have a seat. Mrs. Van den Berg, let's catch our breath. Where were you? Mrs van den Berg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u180	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to apologize sincerely for not being here, because that just doesn't look like anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u181	It happens. It happens to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u182	Then we'll suspend neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mrs. Agema! Mrs van den Berg, if you are in need of suspension, then that applies to you, and that applies to everyone else, it is important to ask for suspension. Then I'll take that into account. It's always been that way. Because you were not in the room, it was not known whether you would be here in two minutes, ten minutes or whenever, but it could happen to anyone. For the next time, it is important that you propose a suspension if you need a suspension. Then everyone knows what he's up to. Now it's up to you again. I'd say take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u184	Thank you again, also for the coulance of the colleagues to wait. I'd like to file the motions now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting, for example, that enhanced quality standards can have a major impact on regional hospitals, and thus on the viability of the region, and that this is not taken into account when drawing up quality standards;]] [[Whereas it would be possible to take account of the impact on the viability of a region at an early stage in order to avoid unintentional closure of ERs and ICIs;]] [[noting that the Healthcare Institute may carry out or have carried out a budget impact analysis;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a quality of life test is also carried out so that citizens' interests in preserving the region's viability are taken into account in drawing up and assessing the quality framework for emergency care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u185	I'm glad we waited for this motion. I will propose to my group to vote for it, but we have heard the Minister say clearly once or twice that he is making a choice. So he doesn't make that choice for accessibility. He puts the directive above accessibility, as he calls it. So my question to the CDA is: what do you do if the Minister rejects your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u186	If the Minister rejects the motion, we would like to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u187	That's your right. Proceed with the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u188	It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Treant's proposed decision on the closure of hospital departments did not involve partners in the region sufficiently;]] [[noting that network meetings have been organised in the context of addressing the problem of acute care in shrinking regions;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage networking meetings and care tables in shrinking regions, such as the regional care table set up by Drenthe, and to promote the involvement of residents and local and regional authorities in addition to care parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u189	Mr. Chairman. I have one more motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u190	No, you're really out of your speaking time. I am sure there will be another debate in which it can be tabled. I now turn to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP. How many motions do you have? Three? Then I'd start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u191	Mr. Chairman. I hope we can get started now. I should like to dwell on the point made by Mr D66. Mrs Dijkstra sighed: when will it stop? When does it end that Meppel closes, that obstetrics disappears? We've been seeing this trend for 20 years. I'll tell D66, it won't stop until politics intervenes nationwide. 'Cause you know what else happens in Drenthe? Then obstetrics disappears in Stadskanaal, in Hoogeveen and in Emmen. Then we get a big, new colossus in the center, because those are the plans they have there. I'd better move on to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas regional hospitals are indispensable for the region;]] [[Whereas vulnerable hospitals already receive an availability allowance to ensure the 45 minute standard;]] [[Whereas the availability allowance is also a good tool to support vulnerable regional hospitals in keeping emergency and intensive care open and maintaining quality care;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a scheme for an availability allowance for regional hospitals in order to achieve quality assurance for the emergency and intensive care services of regional hospitals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the clinical obstetrics departments of the hospitals play an essential role in the care of the midwifery in Hoogeveen and the Refaja in Stadskanaal;]] [[declares that the Minister must organise that the clinical obstetrics departments of the hospitals retain the Bethesda in Hoogeveen and the Refaja in Stadskanaal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-158]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u192	We had two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u193	No, one. It's a third. One minute and twenty seconds. You're almost two now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u194	We had four minutes before the... So that's one minute...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u195	No, no, no. This applies to everyone, including you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u196	No, it's one...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u197	Yeah, one minute twenty. That's right. Look how many minutes you've spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u198	You said one minute. But it's... I'm sitting on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u199	I can't believe it. Mr. Van Gerven, thank you very much. I'm going to see Mrs. Sazias, on behalf of 50PLUS. How many minutes do you have? I see you have one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The outcome of this debate is rather disappointing, because the Minister is not prepared to direct and to ensure that the coverage of general hospitals remains, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the merger of hospitals and the closure of a number of emergency departments have distorted the network of general hospitals in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the closure of a general hospital causes serious disturbance in the area and seriously affects the viability of the region;]] [[calls on the government to direct and ensure that the coverage of general hospitals remains at the current level, including an emergency department and a clinical obstetrics department,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are signs that there is a regional shortage of pediatricians and intensifiers, among others;]] [[Whereas these deficits threaten to close down departments in regional hospitals and thereby affect the accessibility of care;]] [[noting that there is still no understanding of the causes and extent of regional deficits;]] [[Whereas information on regional deficits related, inter alia, to the decision on the closure of paediatric clinical and clinical obstetrics departments should be provided as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out the investigation of the causes of the shortage of doctors in the region as soon as possible and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the Minister, decisions affecting the accessibility and availability of care provision in a region should involve a careful joint process and a joint dialogue involving all relevant regional parties, including local authorities and local residents;]] [[Whereas several parties have indicated that they have not been sufficiently involved in the preparation of Treant's planned decision to concentrate clinical midwife and paediatric care in Emmen;]] [[Whereas, according to the Minister's letter of 1 June, the IGJ, in its monitoring of Treant, considered the communication with interested parties and asked Treant questions about the intended decision;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of how the IGJ in its monitoring of Treant's proposed decision takes into account the involvement of interested parties and also to identify the interested parties which distinguish the IGJ in this regard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u203	Mr President, I have written the motion in a very short time. I think it is very important to table that motion now. It is clear from the debate that for me the stakeholders are mainly the municipalities and the residents. I am committed to tabling this motion now because the AMvB to which the Minister refers and which I am very pleased with is simply not yet on the agenda and I want to avoid situations such as Treant continuing to occur over the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now turn to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u205	Mr. Chairman. We have already discussed the quality frameworks and the involvement of patients in this debate during the interrupting debate. I would like another commitment from the Minister on that. I would also ask him, as a minister, to encourage those patient organisations involved in quality standards to take into account, in particular, the perspective of the inhabitants, as well as accessibility and accessibility, and also to pay particular attention to the thinner populated regions and shrinking regions. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Minister wants to look at the finances. However, I find his role somewhat waiting. I therefore ask him to take a more active approach to the parties in order to resolve this problem. As far as the emergency framework for emergency aid is concerned, I would like those parties too to consult with the Working General Hospitals. I understand that the Minister is not about that, but I think he can encourage them to talk again to see if a solution is possible, similar to what is currently being worked on an addendum for intensive care. Finally, I would like to say two more things about previous speakers. The Party of Animals indicated that care has been cut short. We are going to spend 8 billion more on this period. I therefore find it inappropriate. The concern is just good and I think it is bad that a different impression is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u206	Well, I thought this is the second term, so it's getting a little quieter. But Mrs. Aukje de Vries started, so Mrs. Van Kooten-Arises.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u207	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Firstly, it is of course the Party for Animals and not the Party of Animals. The CDA knows that very well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u208	VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u209	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u210	We're even again!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u211	We're even, indeed!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u212	1-1.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u213	It is a fact that, unfortunately, care in the Netherlands has been cut down. Hospitals now need to cut back 1.5 billion a year, and all these rules and additional requirements also mean that regional hospitals have to close down. So the VVD should also be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u214	I'm certainly not ashamed of the care. I'm proud of the care we have. What about cut downs? This year, EUR 8 billion will be added for curative care. So I also think Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen should stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u215	Good. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u216	Mr. Chairman. Although EUR 28 billion will be added, this minister is about to blow up the entire hospital care system. The room is there and the room is looking at it. Mr President, in your direction, I think it is an enormous weakness for you to shut down the microphone of a Member of Parliament who wants to make an order proposal, and to do so yourself. I would suggest that we suspend for a moment and wait for Mrs van den Berg, who was preparing another motion. It's very common in this house. Secondly, the haste in this debate was not caused by the VWS committee. We started this debate an hour later because of a substantial extension of the general discussion on culture. Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the final conclusion. The Minister says: "When it comes to hospital care and when it comes to directives, I choose quality. The IGZ is about enforcement, but if it gets out of hand in the area of money, I want to talk about it. And the directive will enter into force on 1 July 2018." This means that if it is financially unfeasible, a lot of emergency services and intensive care will not be able to sustain it and will eventually disappear. And the big hospitals aren't waiting to have to take so many patients from the region into their hospitals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u217	I'm gonna count to ten. I give the floor to Mr Kerstens. And I appeal to everyone to keep this debate civilised. There is a debate and a debate here, not a "gets" debate. Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u218	I will, Mr. Chairman. After all, I just get ten seconds. I'm going to read out two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there appears to be disagreement as to the scope for tailor-made work provided by the Minister in a manner appropriate to the hospital in question;]] [[Whereas the necessary quality can be secured in several ways;]] [[invites the Government to consult with the FoundationSeparate General Hospitals on the possibility of the customization referred to above and the availability of the necessary control space for that purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u219	I also read the second motion on behalf of Mrs Van den Berg. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that further research is being carried out into whether sufficient intensiveists are available at regional or local level;]] [[noting that consultations are still taking place on an addendum to the ICI Directive;]] [[noting that this still leaves much to be desired about the impact of the amended ICI Directive on regional hospitals;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with hospitals and health insurers not to take irreversible steps with regard to ICIs as long as the effects of the amended ICI Directive are unclear,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u220	The Minister answered one question from me from the first term. I would have asked him another question. Perhaps he considered it a rhetorical question, but I had asked him if he would go into history as the minister who turned the noose around the neck of the regional hospitals even tighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u221	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Dijkstra, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have a motion, but a comment on Mr Van Gerven's comment on my question: where is the border? I think we interpret them differently. I also referred to what the Minister said in his introduction, namely the way in which care will be changed in the future. He also explained that the care will look different. For example, you can think of one and a half centres, where the patient does not always have to go to the specialist and the specialist can also leave the hospital. I would find it very interesting to find out a little bit more about this and to have a good talk with each other, but that is up to the committee on the future of care. I have asked before, in a motion that has been passed, for good examples to be shared of these new forms of care, with which you can solve that not everything goes on in the old way. I am curious to see how that will be implemented. My favourite example in this respect is the OLVG, which has been watching for years in the intensive care of the MC Zuiderzee in Lelystad, so that they do not need intensive care of level 3, but there is the expertise to determine what needs to happen, to stabilise a patient and so on. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you, Mrs Pia Dijkstra. Finally, Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and, for short, simply to table one motion, which I hope speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the care sector, important values always compete for priority: the quality, accessibility, accessibility and affordability of care;]] [[noting that quality requirements in new directives or quality standards may jeopardise not only the macro-payability of care but also the accessibility and accessibility of care;]] [[considers that it is desirable to check whether the accessibility and accessibility of care arising from new directives or quality standards are at stake;]] [[calls on the government, in the forthcoming legislative proposal, not only to allow the political weighting of new quality standards for financial control of healthcare expenditure, but also to provide for the Health Care Institute to explicitly review new quality standards for the feasibility, accessibility and accessibility of care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27295-165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u225	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u226	Mr. Chairman. I like to walk past the different motions. The first motion, tabled by Mrs Van den Berg in part No. 156, on the vitality test, I wouldn't recommend it. As I indicated in the first term, patient organisations and insurers are involved in making a quality standard. They bring in that citizen perspective. A vitality test is so broad that I do not want to impose the quality standard on the content of care. To the motion in part No. 157 on encouraging networking and care tables in shrinking regions, I would like to give the Court's opinion. I agree with this. You can also read that evidence in the main medical-specialist care agreement. The motion in part No. 158 tabled by Grandpa Van Gerven, excuse chairman, Mr Van Gerven, I do not recommend. With regard to the design of an availability fee, I have argued that we should not do so. We have to stick to the arrangement that exists for the 45 minutes of sensitive care. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 159 keeping the clinical obstetrics departments of Bethesda and Refaja open, I must advise against. I've made a different assessment here. I've been talking about the 45-minute standard, which is not at stake here. So I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 160: Government, take control. As far as the proposers are concerned, I would like to say that the role of direction does not lie here with the government. This is about the duty of care that regulates the availability of care to a sufficient extent. That's what I'm here for. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u227	I think Mr Van Gerven has something to say about his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u228	Yes, I would like to return to the motion to state that obstetrics in Hoogeveen must be preserved. The obstetricians there say that if you cannot reach the hospital within 20 minutes in an acute order situation, then the risk of an increase in neonatal morbidity or morbidity. mortality. Now the Minister says: I stand for quality, that is my starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u229	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u230	Then why would he betray that motion with that science? Because that's what quality is all about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u231	Mr. Chairman. Because I want to stick to that sensitivity standard. It's not in question here. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u232	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u233	That sensitivity standard, the quality standard, is at stake, because the Minister compares apples with pears. That 45 minutes goes there in 15, 5 stabilization and 25 minutes to the hospital. But clinical obstetrics are subject to different standards. Does the Minister realize that and does he want to take that into account in his judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u234	No, I'm sticking to that sensitive standard I know. And even if it's a political standard, it's been working for 15 years, and I'd like to stick to that. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 161 in which the government is asked to investigate the causes of the shortage of doctors in the region as soon as possible and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I think that's a good idea. Judgment Room. On the motion in part No. I leave Mrs Dik-Faber to judge the Chamber as far as I am concerned. It deals with how the IGJ in its monitoring of Treant's proposed decision weighs the involvement of stakeholders and so on. Following Mrs Dik-Faber's speech, a few more questions were addressed to me in Mrs De Vries' speech. One was the request to the government to promote that, through patient organisations, the perspective of residents for accessibility and accessibility should also be included in the process of establishing a quality standard in good time, as mentioned by Mrs De Vries. Mr President, I should like to take this up actively. I listened very carefully this afternoon. I'll try to get the patients' organizations to think along. I will put my energies into actively calling for this, both in general and more specifically for the shrinking regions. Then I am asked to play an active role if the establishment of an emergency care framework is not working properly. That's what I'm telling you. That role will be fulfilled through the Healthcare Institute. If parties don't come out, this will take over the direction, the perseverance. That is the interpretation of the active role that I see before me. Then I come to Mr Kerstens' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u235	Yeah, the motion to part No. 163.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u236	It invites the government to "consultation with the Foundation Collaborative General Hospitals on the possibility of the customization referred to above and the availability of the necessary control space." I tasted something in Mr Kersten's speech, which I also taste, namely that there is still a lack of knowledge about the customization approach. The meeting with the SAZ foundation is scheduled for next month. I would therefore like to leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u237	I feel like the Minister has linked a few things in a way that wasn't in my questions. On the one hand I had asked to work actively with the payment title for the medium care and network care and not to wait for a letter to come. Secondly, I had asked that, in the context of the framework for emergency action, at least the parties should look at a solution to the problem of tailor-made solutions, as well as in the context of the ic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u238	In connection with the problems associated with the payment of medium care and network care, I will actively talk to the SAZ foundation and possibly the Dutch Association for Intensive Care. I'd be happy to say so. As far as the emergency care framework is concerned, if the parties do not get out, it is obvious that the Healthcare Institute will take the lead, but I will be actively involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u239	Then the motion to part No. 164.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u240	In the motion in part No. 164 by Mr Kerstens and Mrs Van den Berg, the government is invited to agree with hospitals and health insurers not to take irreversible steps with regard to ic's as long as the effects of the amended IC Directive are unclear. I advise against this motion. The IC Directive was adopted in 2016. As I have said before, the parties have now had two years for implementation. I therefore advise against this motion. Then there was a question from Mrs Dijkstra about the debate on care in the future. I think we will have this debate along different lines. I think it is an interesting debate myself. Of course, we take a bite out every time, but the care will really change. Perhaps the text of the main agreement reads as a kind of working agenda for the coming years, but after the next three years there will be a longer period. In addition, Mrs Dijkstra has asked for new forms of care. How can we share good examples, so early. I have sent to the Chamber the report of the Task Force on the Right Place. I would like to follow up on this with practical examples of how care can take shape in the right place in practice. Mrs Dijkstra reminded us of a motion, but we shall return to it with a document on these new forms of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u241	An addendum is being worked on. I hope that will be ready on 1 July, but we are not sure. I refer to the motion which refers to 'no irreversible steps'. The Minister is right to say that we have been working on it for two years. If we've been working on it for two years, can't we add two more weeks to prevent a lot of social unrest? How does the Minister weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u242	Yeah, that's what I tried to say in the first term. I assume the parties will come out with the addendum, on or around 1 July. Then, of course, I'm going to ask the inspection to take that into account. Otherwise, we're gonna make chunks where we don't have to. I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u243	Then the motion to part No. 165.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u244	That's the last one. This motion calls on the government, in the forthcoming bill, to provide for an AMvB to be designed not only to allow the political weighting of new quality standards for financial control of healthcare expenditure, but also to provide for the Health Institute to explicitly review new quality standards for the feasibility, accessibility and accessibility of care. This has been so much argued here that I think it would be a good idea to give this 'judge chamber' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u245	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-9.u246	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
