ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u1	We'll continue with the VAO Tax Office. I welcome the Secretary of State for Finance and give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Everyone in this country is expected to pay taxes. If you work at the Tax Office, then of course you might want to sneak a little mistake in your tax return, but there are situations where that is actually considered to be some kind of dereliction of duty. Those civil servants would be fired. That's punishment discharge. Then they used the knowledge they have as an official to fill out the tax return to their individual advantage. When I read that, I thought, "How often does that happen?" How exactly is it handled? It seems to me that a tax administration, which is extremely strict in determining whether people fill out their tax returns properly, is also subject to severe penalties if this goes wrong, which will also have been well arranged for officials of that tax administration. And yes, there is just a line that has to be followed since 2001. And then you ask them through written questions. I hardly got a reply to that. In a general discussion it is said that I will return to that in writing. The Secretary of State has done so, for which I am grateful. But again it is not clear whether in those past sentences firings that really took place as an employer in the coordination consultation between the FIOD..................................................................................................................................................... So that's why I just feel compelled to file the next motion. I think it's a good thing that people are being chased by the Tax Administration if they don't pay their taxes properly, but I don't think it's possible for that same Tax Service as the employer to let people get away with it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the conduct of criminal offences committed by officials of the Tax Administration in office since 2001 should be used in the case of abuse of duties or absence of duty of officials;]] [[noting that there is no clarity as to whether, and if so, how often this policy has been used after it became clear that people have been discharged;]] [[Considers that the consultation between FIOD, OM and Tax Administration as employers should always discuss whether and how an official is being prosecuted for absence of duty or abuse of office;]] [[calls on the Government to respect the line and to inform the Chamber annually on how many cases have been discussed and on what outcome have been reported cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-449]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is good that in the last week before the recess we can talk about a number of things from the Tax Administration. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for finally being able to givezzp'ers a new number after years, which means that they no longer have to put their own BSN number on the invoice. Perhaps the Secretary of State may still be asking for a really old official after the departure scheme, but there is an opinion from the Van Thijn table about 2004, 2005, not to put the BSN number on invoices, not to put it on college cards, not to put it on passports, because then identity fraud is possible. So maybe he can also thank Mr Van Thijn once again for that opinion, because thirteen years later we started to deliver his opinion, which we should have done when we introduced the BSN number in 2006 in the Chamber. If we had done that at the beginning, this Secretary of State would have saved some headaches. Then I have a second question. We discussed in detail the estimates of the inheritance and gift tax in the Autumn paper. The Minister of Finance has said that he has the ADR look at that. I am not just concerned with the estimates. I find it annoying that the estimates have been adjusted downwards by 600 million between the Spring Note and the Autumn Note, so that a third or almost a quarter less of taxes are coming in than we expected. If that were the case with other tax resources, then you cannot make a budget if you are 25% wrong. But we feel that we also want to look a little deeper at what happened there. It would be appropriate for the General Court to do so. Would the Secretary of State be willing to ask the General Court to pay special attention to the inheritance and gift tax in the 2018 report? And if the President intends to forward this section of the stenogram to the General Court, because it still supervises us, then I will not oppose it very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. I, too, will be brief. I don't have a motion, but it's okay to mark two points. These are, in fact, the same points that Mr Omtzigt has just raised. My group is also very pleased that the VAT number no longer consists of the citizen service number. It's an important step, so I'm very glad the Secretary of State is getting on with it. It will be quite an operation, but it is important to combat identity fraud at all, so thank you for that. The second point is indeed about the inheritance and gift tax. We have talked about this a number of times. In view of the debate that has just been concluded and what has been discussed, I think it is very important that we clarify the figures. I refer in particular to the estimate. For us as MPs, what is estimated and what is moved forward to next year, due to the ICT that was lagging behind, needs to be better monitored. That has been promised, so I do not have to make a motion on that. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to indicate what the deadline is for us to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you. There is one motion tabled by Mrs Leijten. The Secretary of State may respond immediately. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We still have a number of questions and one motion. Let me start with the motion, which also came first. That is the Leijten motion in part No. 449. I recognize the discussion on this point. We have indeed discussed it in the previous debate. I don't even know if it was a misunderstanding, but I was talking about anyone who makes a mistake with his taxes in the Netherlands simply having to be prosecuted. Then Mrs Leijten was right to say that there are also mistakes that you can make when a line of conduct, or at least a policy decision, has been taken. If you do that in an offense, there are stricter demands than just dismissal. In the last letter, and I myself had the idea that we were quite clear in that...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You have the case that you can make a mistake as a citizen. Everyone gets treated the same way. You just have to comply with the law, and if you don't, the DA's gonna come at you. And you've got the cases in which it's a criminal offense. That's just heavier. For example, we are talking about an official who has used the systems to say to others: if you fill in this or this, then we are not looking. You can't do that, and that's an integrity violation. Then there's gonna be other things. So I had tried to make that distinction. Then there's a third situation. That's what makes it most complicated. That is the situation where an official of the Tax Administration makes use of the knowledge he has of the systems to allow himself to make a mistake, so to speak. That's kind of the hybrid variant, where you do one and two. In that case a decision must be taken to prosecute and, therefore, that tripartite consultation can also be invoked. That's what we do. I also wrote in the letter that we are sticking to the policy decision, which has therefore been explained. The motion calls for this to continue to be respected. Actually, I totally agree with that. In my opinion, therefore, we also respect our own rules. The new one would be: can we then get an annual insight into how many cases these are? We haven't. It might be a good idea. So it's not about dozens of cases. We should be careful, too, like I said last time. You can talk about numbers, but not individual cases. So if the question were "last two years it was sixteen cases, I may know from case number fourteen whether..." then I cannot go into that. I can imagine that we say that we have had 16 firings and in a number of cases there was also a criminal offence. That is different from the fact that a tax error has just been made. We can report on that. Maybe I should just say that I can imagine that we're gonna do that. We won't get that out of our systems automatically, but I'm sure we can keep track of the numbers. In short, let me give Chamber judgment on this motion. I understand the wish and I'm certainly not against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u8	I think it is a good thing that the Chamber underlines that this is being respected. I had a strong impression, with the questions I asked in relation to the reporting and the further development of the information, that it was a bit down. I would ask the Secretary of State to look again at what has happened in recent years. Have the officials who have committed offences in office actually been discussed in that tripartite consultation? Are there lessons to be learned from that? I'm fine with the verdict on the motion, but I'll give it to the Secretary of State. I can't prove it, but I have the distinct impression that it was a little down. If we adopt this motion later, but also draw the attention of the Secretary of State himself to it, that will be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u9	I hope that Mrs Leijten is not right that it had failed, but the warning to my address to take care of it, I heard right. Once again, we want nothing more than to respect our own policies. There are still questions from Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Lodders. First the VAT and the bsn-numbers. There's been a lot of talk about that. I assume it was a Mr. Van Thijn who in 2006... We'll see if we can find him to thank him. The point is clear. We have indicated that the VAT number is now used in all tax cases, including as a bsn number. If an old tax number has started to be used as a number with which you can get all kinds of information, then there are risks related to the personal data. We were aware of that. In previous debates, we indicated that there is no simple solution. In the core all systems run at the service via that number and not by a name, because then there can be all kinds of typing and writing errors. We have asked an external committee with people who really know a lot about ICT and this area to think with us. They have come up with a system in which you put a shell on the outside and in which renumbering takes place. That means that 1.3 million small companies, especiallyzzp'ers, get a new number. We are happy with it and will work hard on it in the coming year to get it done. The Dutch Data Protection Authority gave us a year to do this. We're gonna be full-bodied, because it's important. I support the thought. Then heir and bestow. I understand that it was also discussed with the Minister this afternoon. We had problems with the bombing earlier and then we talked about it. It's two separate cases. We wanted to be as far as possible by the end of the year by solving the problems of imposing these attacks. We didn't make it all, but we're lucky we're getting close. The backlogs are largely gone and we can handle the influx again. That's the good news. The bad news is that we still did not have a satisfactory explanation for the fact, apart from the attempt on which a shift is taking place from one year to the next, that the total of the estimate seems to be lower than you might expect. We've been discussing the house prices that are in it. We have said that there have been many more opportunities to donate, for example for our own home. A large proportion of these house price increases have probably been reduced by this grant exemption. Anyway, I agree with the Chamber that it's not sharp enough yet. I understand that the Minister has indicated the same thing. I understand that this is an explicit request to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is capable of doing a great deal of work, and that is why I understand the transit procedure. We normally do not make requests to the Court of Auditors. I will pass it on to the Minister that this is now so explicitly addressed. In the letter we will pay attention to it. On the explicit request to do it at the Court of Auditors, I do wonder whether this is the most appropriate body. You can also think of an independent economic agency. I will not advertise, but there are a number of agencies in the Netherlands that are fairly well informed about estimates. I understand the point and perhaps the Court of Auditors is a good idea. But I'd like to talk to the Minister about it. In the end, it is also his responsibility to do so. Let's just use the best we can find to better understand that estimate. That's, I think, what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u10	Short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr President, thank you for that. I'm gonna try and explain it one more time. It is not a question of estimates as such. They can easily be selected by the ADR or one of those agencies. It's about whether there are problems, because we're still getting signals from notaries that people get nulaan beatings, when they're just wealthy or at least the deceased were wealthy. The question is whether this has been handled correctly. That seems to me to be the role of the Court of Auditors. So the request is just whether the Minister or the Secretary of State would like to enter into consultation with the Court of Auditors and ask them to take a closer look at this in the annual...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u12	The Minister. I mean the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u13	I understand that point very well, but I actually have more questions than Mr Omtzigt. It doesn't happen often, but it does now. I am still looking forward to the scale of this macro estimate, because you can also see that it is rising less rapidly. That is the quality test that we have done before, not the idea that this Summit task force alone, because that is what it should be about, will provide that low estimate, but well, that can still be done. So that's the question. It is not clear from our data, but I should also like to take this specific question with the Minister and come back to it in that letter in January, including the idea that perhaps the Court of Auditors could help in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u15	I hear the Secretary of State referring to a letter in January. That, I think, is not the outcome of the investigation, because that would be very short notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u16	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u17	Can the Secretary of State indicate when he would like that about ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u18	Again, that falls under the Minister's portfolio. I can find all sorts of things, but in the end, of course, the estimates are made under his responsibility. Since I did not follow the debate this afternoon, I cannot see it exactly. I think we all want to ensure that this becomes known as soon as possible. Then we simply have to make new estimates. I think he promised to explain in a letter in January how he intends to do that. I understand Mrs Lodder's request that it should not appear in 2028, but rather a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u19	Okay, thank you. That also brings us to the end of this VAO. I thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-8.u20	On the motion tabled, it was one motion and we will vote tomorrow.
