ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would, of course, like to welcome everyone, the people in the public gallery, but also the Minister for Legal Protection in trade-K. The next item is the report (Doc. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On Valentine's Day, my favorite subject, what else does a human want? Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today a very worrying report by the Criminal and Youth Protection Council, because the Council concludes that the efforts of prison facilities and municipalities to manage the return of detainees to society are still seriously inadequate. That is worrying, and that is bad, because safety can be at stake when people are not properly prepared. Unfortunately, I have to say that the report did not surprise us, because on several occasions we have heard that aftercare and socialization are not doing well. Each time we have called for it to be improved, but so far it has not been possible. I say'so far' on purpose, because in the end, fortunately, it has received the attention it deserves in the coalition agreement. We have advocated a targeted approach, solutions and intensifications, and they are therefore very much needed. The RSJ identifies five bottlenecks: but half of ex-convicts actually get support, information exchange is inadequate, basic prefaces for a promising future are not working enough and everyone seems to be doing something. So there's work to be done. The RSJ has made concrete recommendations: smooth assessment, review that approach, deliver customization, involve the parole organisations, ensure better information exchange, regionalise and ensure that these basic conditions are put in place. Then I'll read the letter and we'll actually not be satisfied. The letter is too detailed on a few small things, but the really big steps are not taken. First of all, let me look at the fact that the Minister ignores the fact that the reintegration activities for short-term punishments are not taking shape at all. Of course I do realize that it is a very difficult target group, but what about the customization that the RSJ is so keen on? Sometimes it doesn't take much to turn a button on someone, and we're leaving that chance. I'd like a response from the Minister. In this context, I would also like to refer to the position paper of GGZ Nederland, which states that so many prisoners have psychological problems. It is suggested to expand a psychomedical consultation and, if possible, to start in detention with a proper arraignment to forensic care. That sounds like low-hanging fruit. Is the Minister picking up that glove? The GGZ also indicates that there is a great diversity within the establishments. Can't that be streamlined? Don't you think we should look at what works? What is the Minister's response to this? Mr. Chairman. The screening is not only important to get a picture of mental health care. We also have multiple cells. Then you want to know who's putting you together. I read that the Minister is going to do a little research on what is necessary. I think that's too light. I want to know from this minister what he's actually going to do. I'd like a response. Then there's the brutalized lack of information exchange. The General Data Protection Regulation does not allow for exchange. It can only be done if the target is clear in advance. The VNG is also concerned about this and advocates the use of the Data Processing Partnerships Act. The VNG has a lot of reasoning for that. I find it interesting and I would like to hear from the Minister how he views it. In any case, I think it is important to exchange information as soon as possible, including on the crime with the person responsible for aftercare in the municipality, because sometimes only the mayor gets information and not the aftercare coordinator. That's weird. I can be brief about the importance of regional placements. The government agreement states that the detention phase will be maintained. I wonder if the Minister has any ideas on this. Let me say: I have been saying this for ten years, Mr President, so you know from me: can we not stop that all prisoners are almost forced to return to their place of origin every time? Often that is not at all the place they have to go. That's what the RSJ says, and I repeat. But we are not there yet, because the Minister is actually ignoring the big message that it is all too fragmentary. It's a patch blanket, it's gotta be better. We are now getting a new director of probation, can I assume that his great task will be to ensure that there is a coherent picture with the municipalities to actually take a step in improving socialisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The return of prisoners to society after their punishment is not well arranged. There are tough conclusions from the Council on Criminal and Youth Protection. Less than half of the ex-con is reached, basic conditions to keep criminals on the right path are not fulfilled, still people are leaving prisons without valid ID. Information between prisons and municipalities is not shared and little is known about the results of the policy. This is not just a problem for the person concerned, but for the whole of society. This is shocking. Or isn't it again? Because how long have we been talking about this? It's been at least ten years, Mr. Chairman. We have made many proposals. Yeah, changing people's behavior isn't that easy, of course. But as long as we don't do anything about the addictions or disorders that people have, as long as we keep closing prisons and leaving staff shortages, as long as people are still out of ID and housing on the streets after detention, we accept great risks for society. This whole thing really should have been much better organised by now. The fact that that did not happen is a bad thing to call it. I'm not saying that because those inmates are so pathetic, they're not, they've made it their own way that they're sitting there, but because I want us to make sure that the chances of re-crime are reduced. Combating relapses is preventing victims. You will work specifically on the safety of the Netherlands if you ensure that criminals do not get out of jail more criminally than they went in. And I too find the Minister's reaction to the RSJ's justified recommendations a little lukewarm. Why doesn't he exude a little more enthusiasm to really do something with this valuable advice? Yes, there are many parties involved, such as municipalities and health care institutions that the minister may not be about. But this is about safety. Will the Minister direct this and, if necessary, will other parties also address their responsibilities if they fail? Mr. Chairman. I will use the rest of my speaking time to make concrete proposals. Anyone entering prison must be screened to see what needs to be done about interventions or preparation for end detention. Give the probation a role in this: we also have to work with short-term punishments. The workload of prison staff should be reduced in order to enable motivating treatment and to deal with questions of assistance. Put prisoners to work during detention, with as much meaningful work as possible. Where possible, skills need to be learned and certificates or diplomas can be obtained. Treat addictions and disorders and do so already in detention. A large part of the prisoner population is affected by this. Anyone who leaves the prison must have a valid ID. This is still not always settled and is causing problems. I believe that municipalities should no longer impose a requirement that someone should report to the counter in person, so that this is possible only after detention. Is the minister going to appeal to municipalities on that, too? And is the minister also going to ask larger municipalities to just let an official work in prisons one day a week, to take care of practical matters? How complicated can it be to make sure people just have ID when they leave prison? We've been working on that for a really long time. I really want us to agree today that this is just gonna be resolved. The SP believes that parole should become the spider in the web, responsible for the entire process of reintegration to ensure continuity. That starts with the presence of parole in detention. Municipalities remain in charge of coordinating aftercare, but implementation, supervision and guidance throughout the process of detention to freedom should actually be in the hands of parole. May I have a response from the Minister? There should be a clear basis for sharing data on prisoners between p.i.s, municipalities and other interested parties. In any event, such data should include start-up and end-date detention and information on the five basic conditions. I'd like a commitment. This should not only depend on the consent of the person concerned, because then you will get into trouble, because you will not reach that difficult group. This was apparently a question from the VVD, which I answered immediately. I hope time hasn't run out. Locking up. Combating relapses is preventing victims. Work on this and try not to let time in detention be a waste of time, but use it as best we can, so that we do the best we can to ensure that criminals are not more dangerous, but better out of prison than they went in. This is in the interests of society's security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing the recommendations of the RSJ today. I look at these in relation to the white paper Kurs en Kansen. The content of this was very shocking in terms of the composition of the prison population, 60% of the prisoners are addicted and 60% have a psychiatric disorder, and because of the fact that their post-detention situation has often deteriorated. On average, prisoners end up with higher debts, lower income and less care than detention. In doing so, we have a system that does not contribute sufficiently to reducing the chance of people going through the wrong again. That is the repetition my colleague has already mentioned. That's worrying. I ask the Minister what findings of these reports have hit him the most. Which of those recommendations of the RSJ does he experience as the most urgent? I ask this because I also sympathise with the colleagues who say that it is a somewhat lukewarm reaction. I want to know what makes him tick? What's the minister really gonna walk for? Mr. Chairman. Punishment doesn't help a lot. Many inmates would have been helped with a change of behavior, more structure and rehab of their addiction. One of the best ways of doing this is to impose judicial conditions. We'll have a stick behind the door. Is the Minister in favour of imposing them more often? If so, how does he intend to promote this? A conditional community service could also be useful. That is not actually happening or only in combination with an unconditional punishment. Does the Minister intend to also encourage conditional community service? One of the RSJ's recommendations is that parole is given a stronger role in re-integration, as Mr Van Nispen has just said, even if there are no judicial conditions. The Minister wants to look at this, but he immediately writes in his letter that all this must be done within the given budgetary framework. Does he mean that the budget for parole should not be increased? Or does he mean that everything within the overall budget of J and V has to be taken into account? The first is not real if you are really ambitious about the role of probation. At the moment, only half of the prisoners are offered support on their return to society. Mostly short-terms are out of the boat. What will be the percentage of ex-convicts receiving support after the end of this minister's mandate? What are his ambitions and what measures does he take specifically for the short-term? I fully agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that this is a very bad thing. The mental problems of many prisoners are not recognised. In order to allow a good return to society, it is important that people are properly screened. Does the Minister intend to improve the capacity of screening bodies? How's he gonna do that? Mr. Chairman. During a hearing with experts on the reintegration of ex-convicts last summer, it was emphasised that there is a problematic cut in the care. When it comes to compulsory aftercare, people can count on it, but when the legal title expires, there is often a problem. The care then waits for itself and is bite-snap. We need to ensure continuous pathways, for example by including the provision of care in detention services. What's the Minister's status on this? We have already discussed the shortage of secure beds. That's what a field standard would be for. Are we still on schedule and is this field standard still being agreed this year? And what is this really going to mean in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Most criminals aren't born criminally, but neither are most criminals clean at the moment they leave the judicial chain. This is also one of the biggest problems: how do you provide sufficient guidance in the bin as well as after the bin and how do you ensure that it is a continuous chain? As Mrs Buitenweg rightly said, you actually want a form of outpatient guidance; not because criminals are necessarily pathetic, but because there is often a greater problem of addiction, low IQ and psychiatric problems. I think that is one of the most important recommendations: how do you prevent a snipe and how do you ensure that there is guidance, with or without a judicial designation? How can we let that scale flow more smoothly in that? Many questions have also been asked about the role of probation. Does it need to be reinforced? How do we do that? Do they have enough capacity, but also quality, to do so? I remember that there has been a lot of criticism about this in recent years too. Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about the exchange of information. Municipalities have indicated that, even if the prisoner does not want to participate in the information position of the municipality about when a prisoner is released, they feel that they should actually have that information. In particular, the G4 and Tilburg are asking: come up with legislation so that we can make agreements, as we do in the health and safety houses. The government has reacted more or less as follows: we do not want to do so if the prisoner does not actively consent to it. Mr Van Nispen has already said it, and I myself call for it to be: I do not think it is of this time anymore, especially given the problems and nature of many people who have been put in prison. My request to the Minister is therefore to find a solution in this together with these municipalities. Mr. Chairman. One final question that I would like to ask is, by the way, I can usually agree with the other questions that have been asked by the colleagues who were before me. How do we deal with, besides addiction, IQ and debt issues, the fact that everyone is actually looking for a meaningful daily use? This is also the best recipe in terms of structure and to prevent people from falling into repeat errors again. Many inmates would actually like to get back to work, but when you cannot get an explanation of behaviour, that is extremely difficult. Besides, a lot of employers are not waiting for an ex-convict, and I get that, too. That rounds the vicious circle. Now it happens to be the case that we are understaffed in many sectors. Wouldn't it make sense to look together with VNO-NCW to see if there could be some sort of job plan, just to break a lance for these types of people? And not only from the point of view of the criminals themselves, but also because it offers the best guarantee that we can prevent future victims and that society is safer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now turn to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. In November, I visited the Spetse Hoeve in East Groningen, a place where ex-convicts who are struggling with addiction are working on a successful return to society. They're really trying to get a grip on their own lives again, with all the ups and downs that go with it. I met Sherwin there. He told me about his life, where he had a lot of problems and where he was addicted. But he is now working as an expert in experience to help the men who stay in the farm to be at the helm of their own lives. They get the chance to work there on balance in their lives. They can volunteer, or they can work at a company in the neighborhood. And often with success: it's a really good example of a place where people can work on a successful return to society, minimising the chance of them going wrong again. The opinion of the Council on Criminal and Youth Protection sets out the way in which reintegration policies are shaped in practice and where bottlenecks arise. And there's a lot of bottlenecks. It is striking that half of the prisoners are not reached with the post-care policy, just the short-term punishments. While the risk of relapse, of relapse, is no less than the longer punished. That's a group we really should have in the picture. How can we organize that better? Information exchange is also an important point of interest when a prisoner is released. To what extent do the five basic conditions exist? What can we do to improve that? During detention, attempts are made to organise many things, such as identity cards, registration for housing, benefits and debt relief, but at the same time prisoners during their stay in the establishment see that debts arise or will increase and treatment is stopped. People leave the facility without ID. The RSJ pleads for screening on entry. The letter from the cabinet that we received in October states that the different consequences of more tailor-made and early screening will be mapped out. Can the Minister say anything about the preliminary findings? The p.i. is also a resort for care. GGZ Nederland also argues that. The early and more complete presentation of the problem will allow a timely start to be made on counselling and treatment, which will improve reintegration and security. What is the Minister going to do to improve this? The Christian Union is also pleased with the commitment in the coalition agreement to strengthen the approach of recidivism and to strengthen the position of resocialisation and parole. We're gonna make a lot of extra money for that. How is the Minister going to shape this? In particular, I would like to draw attention to volunteering. The use of volunteers and voluntary organisations during and after detention increases the chance of sustainable resocialisation and the reduction of recidivism. How does the Minister intend to shape this? Regional placement is still the starting point, so that the prisoner can return to the place of origin after his sentence. But returning to the place of origin is often also a source of relapse in old behavior. Shouldn't we be looking at which place offers the most opportunities to make a fresh start? How does the Minister view that? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The additional money released in the government agreement and the advice of the RSJ offer opportunities to shape this policy better. I started with a nice example of how it could be done. It usually starts with contacts within the prisons. I hope that this will inspire policy shaping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. A good reintegration policy is crucial for a safe Netherlands. I can therefore wholeheartedly endorse some of the recommendations of the Council on Criminal and Youth Protection, which are now at the heart of this issue. I am thinking in particular of improving the exchange of information on prisoners between the various organisations after detention. Colleagues have already referred to this. If I understand correctly, this exchange of information is often now incomplete, possibly unreliable and partly not allowed. If inmates do not want to participate in this information sharing, that information sharing would simply not be possible either. That is a terrible thing, because it is of course essential to organise a proper exchange of information for the sake of sound and careful reintegration. In other words, that has to be different. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how he is going to organise this and also how far he is with the exploration announced by his predecessor on this point. In short, municipalities must know what kind of people they are dealing with. I also share the principle that prisoners should be placed at regional level where possible. This facilitates cooperation between all the organisations involved. I can also support the principle that, if possible, consideration should be given early to the reintegration of the prisoner. Because whether we like it or not, some inmates need help in getting what is then called a number of basic conditions. Think of things like ID, housing, but also work, of course. If this aid is not provided, then it will go wrong, it will go wrong again, and that is my concern, in particular, for new victims. In fact, I think this debate is a little too early. My question to the Minister is therefore: when can we expect his vision of the prison system, including probation and rehabilitation? Mr President, I am also critical of this report and I am using the remaining part of my speaking time to do so. I take this criticism in fact in the footsteps of Victim Help Netherlands. In a document sent to the Chamber, that organisation rightly stresses, as far as I am concerned, that this report is a very one-sided approach to the perpetrator, while the return to society concerns the victim or the next of kin. In fact, I would like to say that reintegration concerns primarily the victim. The subject has already been raised: for victims it can be very incriminating if the perpetrator comes to live in their vicinity after serving his sentence. So I would like to draw attention once again to my motion adopted at the time, in which I stress that it is undesirable for victims to be faced unintentionally with those who return and re-integrate in the same neighborhood. As far as I am concerned, a ban on residence should also be possible in such cases, not only if the offender, the convicted, the ex-con, is stalking the victim, but also because of the fact that one lives nearby. It is also difficult for victims to digest if at the end of his detention the perpetrator did not compensate the victim for the damage. That's why I want the non-refunding of the victim's damage to conditional release to stand in the way. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. As far as I am concerned, this also fits in with the argument I made earlier with Mrs Van Toorenburg for what is called a 'Parole Board'. In Dutch we can translate that with a "committee conditional release." Victims or victims' organisations should therefore be represented in such a committee, so as to ensure that their interests are protected. Mr President, I come to the final sentence. As far as I am concerned, therefore, that committee could answer the question as to what the consequences should be for the ex-convict who actively opposes the conditions imposed on him by the conditional release and on his reintegration. Perhaps the Minister can also take this into account in his vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr van Oosten talks about the compensation to be paid to the victim and the link to a possible conditional release. I share with him the idea that if you have to clean up, it also includes the fact that you properly compensate the victim for the damage. However, I also realize that you earn €0.80 per hour in prison, I believe, and that it can be quite complicated to put this into practice. How exactly do you see that? Does it have to be paid in full or does it say that there has to be willingness and there has to be a settlement; someone has to pay for it, but I understand that he may not have that money yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	I'd like it to be paid all the way. I also do not rule out the possibility of doing so in some cases. I understand from the figures in the report, for example, that although a large percentage is burdened by debt, another large percentage is not. There may be room there, but I can't see over that. In addition, I can imagine that you could agree on something of a payment arrangement, because you also want people to move forward in life and get back on track. But someone has taken responsibility for committing a crime here. So let those who hold the responsibility to deal with the damage properly afterwards. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. Then I will go to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is about reintegrating detainees. That sounds commendable, but it often means that the government holds the hand of convicted criminals. Criminals are treated too often and too much as patients. It's big business, that reintegration world. Many organizations in the Netherlands, all paid with public money, are involved in this: the probation, the Salvation Army, Exodus, Humanitas et cetera. It is all organisations that are concerned with getting prisoners and ex-cons on the right path. How much money is spent in total on counselling, reintegration and parole? The researchers in the report Van detineren to re-integrate cannot say it. The costs are divided over too many layers and too many organisations at different levels, from local government to central government, deal with about the same tasks. Does the Minister not think that we, as a society, should at least know how much all these reintegration projects and pathways cost? Because if you can't measure it, you can't know it. Does the Minister agree with this paraphrased quote of the CBS? More about measuring. If we know the total cost, we should also know the return on the reintegration projects and pathways. But that is also not something the authors of the report mentioned and previous reports can say. A question that we should ask ourselves as a Chamber is then why we are having this debate at all today and why we must put effort and money into all these reintegration projects all the time. The report which gave rise to this debate gives no insight and no answer in essential areas. The numbers we do know don't lie. 47% of all ex-cons, almost half of them, are going to make another mistake within two years of their release. Almost 25% go straight back on the criminal path. These are the official figures. The real figure is probably even higher, because we do not know how many ex-cons have not yet been arrested and who have committed a crime within two years. These are just the two-year relapse rates. I'm also interested in the recidivism after 10 years and 15 years. The image will certainly not be more beautiful on it. With all these figures in mind, I wonder what the added value of the existing, possibly overpriced reintegration paths is. Can the Minister explain to me why, together with many parties, I believe all the parties who have just spoken in this Chamber, he is calling for more aftercare and more defiance of the criminals without knowing what the costs are and without indicating what the return on all these routes is? Has there ever been an investigation into the relationship between all these reintegration clubs, behavioral interventions and the reduction of the relapse? Can the Minister indicate what the post-care and reintegration pathways abroad look like? What is the situation in those countries with the recurrent figures of ex-convicts? I'd like to ask the Minister to do an investigation. What are countries like the United States of America, Canada, Australia, Austria, Hungary and Poland doing about reintegration projects? How much are these projects going to cost? What are the relapse rates there? However, research shows that there is a link between the imposition of low penalties and a high recurrence. The lower the sentence, the higher the recidivism. The PVV believes that prisoners should not be more, but less, pampered, starting by increasing the penalties. Convicts of serious crimes must be kept out of society for as long as possible in order to prevent them from committing a new crime. Criminals in prison for rape, murder, armed robbery or other crimes of violence should even be sentenced for life so that society can be protected from them for life. In the case of most serious crimes, it is only right that we should protect society in this way. I'm rounding up. The fact is that, as long as these people are in prison, they cannot in any case commit a new crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. Finally, I will go to Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. Prisons are an expensive way to make bad people worse. That is a statement by British politician Douglas Wald, and I think there is a great deal of truth in that. No misunderstanding: when people commit crimes, they deserve appropriate punishment, and sometimes that is prison time. For by far the vast majority of prisoners are released after a short or long time and then it is important to ensure that they do not return to prison. That's good for society and good for the ex-con. D66 is therefore pleased that the coalition agreement has agreed that we are going to make a real effort to combat recidivism and thus socialisation. These are two sides of the same coin. Mr. Chairman. The report Van detineren to re-integrate gives valuable recommendations to improve re-socialization. The report shows that there are a number of bottlenecks that require attention. For example, better implementation of the five basic conditions is desirable and cooperation between the different players needs to be improved. In the discussion about prison and socialisation, Norway is often cited as an example. That's where all the authorities involved hold, I understand, just their role when someone's incarcerated. That prevents a lot of transfer and hassle. I'm actually curious how the Minister looks at that model and whether it inspires him in his plans. Mr. Chairman. Several colleagues have already pointed out the importance of information exchange. I can endorse that. I actually only have one question about that. The Minister writes in his letter that he is in the process of amending the Decision on judicial and criminal matters. How's that going? When can the Chamber expect that decision? Mr. Chairman. Another problem is the cooperation between DJI and municipalities. First of all, I note that the report states that an ex-con should try to generate income himself for two weeks before he is eligible for a benefit. I can imagine in itself, but I also understand that this is not a viable map for some groups. Can't we change that rule? Can't we do more customization instead of one-size-fits-all? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I read and hear that it is often difficult to find living space for ex-cons. That goes even more for prisoners with mental illness or low ability, and there are quite a few of them. Municipalities aren't always happy about people like that, but they'll have to go somewhere eventually. After all, you don't have to be an expert to understand that not having your own roof over your head is a slide towards recidivism. During a hearing in December, several colleagues have already referred to this, and we heard that municipalities sometimes work together to place convicted sex crimes, but this is done on a voluntary basis. In itself beautiful, but apparently nothing is arranged. My question to the Minister is whether he is right, whether he agrees with me that we should just take that into account and whether he is prepared to include it in his plans. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the debt problem. A lot of inmates are in debt. In detention, these debts increase more than once. I have just said in a small debate with Mr Van Oosten that I think the hourly rate in prison is 80 cents an hour. Of course, that doesn't really contribute to solving the problem. It is therefore important that these debts are made during detention, but certainly also after detention. The Minister writes very little about this in the letter. Can he tell us how that's done now? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a conclusion slowly. A great deal has already been said about care. I agree with what Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen said. I have one specific question. I hear and I read in the documents that the exchange of information from the healthcare sector in particular is problematic, but that the amendment of the Decision on judicial and criminal matters, which I have just spoken about, does not solve this problem. My question to the Minister is: is that correct and, if so, what solution does he see? Mr. Chairman. Finally. During the budget debate in November, I tabled a motion to screen all prisoners when they enter the facility. In short, the Minister indicated that he wanted to look into this and that is why I held that motion. I can't wait to see what's going on with that reconnaissance. Can the Minister say anything about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about an important report from the Council on Criminal Application and Youth Protection. First of all, I would like to thank the RSJ for a thorough report, which, in my view, can contribute to thinking about what is good for the reintegration of detainees. I do not think we disagree that it is an important issue. If we can learn from it, we also need to take steps in it, because that ultimately leads to less repetition of bad behavior. This makes society safer. I would also like to thank the spokesmen for their contributions. In the report, the RSJ notes that a lot has been going on in recent years. Some of you are critical, and I understand that. I can also see some bright points in the report, where it is stated that things are going well. But let's focus on the room for improvement, because there's definitely room for improvement. If we look at the trend, we can see that in recent years there has been a reduction in the recurrence, from 55% in 2002 to some 47%. However, this falling line is not continuing. It seems to be stabilizing now, and that's a shame. That is also one of the reasons why we have said in the coalition agreement that we want to see if we can do more about re-reduction. Mr. Chairman. The RSJ also notes that I do not think that there is room for improvement in a number of essential areas. Mrs Buitenweg asked me what struck me most when reading the report. For me, those were two things. First of all, the connection between the time when people in prison, in the DJI, are inside the walls, and what's going on out there can be much better. There are several responsibilities, but we believe that better cooperation can still succeed in preventing repetition. The second thing I thought was that apparently there are still a lot of hiccups in the information system, without saying directly that it should all be open and free. I also see some legal bumps. We also need to see which information agencies really need to do their job properly, but I think we can make a move there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	The Minister says that there has been a decrease in the relapse. By the way, this recidivism is still very high. But the big question is: what was a great deal of my speech just now, is that reduction of criminality is a policy effect? Is it policy, or does it have other reasons? If we can't say that properly, because we can't measure it properly, why do we continue with the current policy? Shouldn't the policy be changed? I hope that, in the course of your speech, you will give an account of the reasons for this fall in your opinion. Can you state clearly whether, in your opinion, this is the result of the policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr Markuszower, of course, has a point to make when he says: try to validate your policy and examine whether a trend you are experiencing can ultimately be traced back to the commitment that has been made on it. Of course, a lot of research is being done, including by the WODC. I note that there has been a great deal of commitment in recent years to the reduction of recurrence and I look at the final trend. Then I see something of a correlation. You want to make it a little stronger. I'd really like that, too. One of the things that is coming and which is also mentioned in my predecessor's letter is the new monitor aftercare, which we will receive this spring. It is the first time that monitor is combined with the repeat monitor, allowing you to see if there is a correlation between forms of aftercare and its effectiveness to prevent recurrence, I think this is also going to answer some of your questions. Some of you were critical of the letter I had sent that was said to lack some ambition. So I started to browse and asked myself if I have sometimes missed a letter. I think you are referring to my predecessor's letter, Stef Blok's letter in response to the report in the aftermath of the previous cabinet. I don't have to tell you how that went. The outgoing cabinet has not written a hugely political letter. Since then, of course, a number of things have happened and there are also a number of things going on. The repeat monitor and the aftercare monitor you will receive, I think will give you more insight into effective pathways. In addition, there has been a government agreement that has put the reduction of repeated crime on the map even more firmly. You can expect me to work on this with enthusiasm. There's also some extra money. Mrs Van der Graaf referred to that. I think we should be real that it's not a bunch of money. It's about a structural build-up of about 20 million. This is a lot of money for the many people who are facing detention, but we also need to look very closely at how we can use it in a good way. In that respect, that space is a little limited. Before I go into some of the things that the RSJ has said, I think it is important to stress here that detention is of course serving multiple purposes than just reducing repeated crime. That is perhaps also a critical point that I myself had in the report of the RSJ. Punishment also serves the purpose of retaliation, ensuring that there is satisfaction towards victims and setting a clear standard for what can and cannot be done. Victims must experience protection and society must see that action is being taken and that those who deserve punishment receive it. This means that in the policy we are all making, there must always be a balance between these two objectives. What does giving extra freedoms and responsibility to a prisoner exactly mean for the sense of protection and satisfaction of the victim? What prevails at what time? It's kind of complicated to give generic answers to that. It is precisely in order to find this balance that I think it is important that we should draw more explicit attention to the interests of the victim and society when deciding on implementation. I think Mr van Oosten is right to make that point. I would also like to see how to improve the provision of information to victims on the granting of leave or release of prisoners. As a follow-up, I would also like to comment on the comments made by the RSJ on reducing the number of short-term custodial sentences. 30% of the prisoners are less than two weeks and within these two weeks, of course, DJI cannot do everything or do so much. They themselves recommend that we consider whether we should get rid of these short custodial sentences. That is, of course, a delicate subject, because in the end there are different procedures for judges to impose penalties. If a judge decides that a custodial sentence is the most appropriate punishment, it will have a reason to impose it, even if it may not be the most effective instrument in the context of reintegration. Mrs Buitenweg has asked whether the Minister is also considering conditional community service. There is a possibility of imposing conditional community service. In the end, it's up to the D.A. and the judge to determine which punishment is most appropriate for a suspect, a perpetrator. I have the impression that this also looks at customisation and the circumstances that play a role in it. There is a law review for conditional penalties, which also examines these kinds of questions. It will be completed by the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	The Minister takes a very critical point, namely the delicate subject of short sentences, but I would like to hear a direction from the Minister. So what are we gonna do about that? Because on the one hand, we hear from judges that they've never been to an institution before. So sometimes they don't know what's going on there. Then we see that in the institution nothing is actually done with short-term punishments. They end up on the street, with exactly the same problem. As Mr Groothuizen rightly pointed out, they still have two weeks to wait for money, so they rob the car radio from the first car where they pass or something else, because they have to do something. So we're trapped. So what exactly is the Minister going to do about this problem? Let it be said: I do not believe that we should stop these short sentences. I would rather want them to be longer, so that we can make better use of time, but how are we going to make better use of that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u26	I share that point. I don't think we can get rid of the short sentences, especially when you see how often they are imposed. That is really part of the instruments, in the palette of punishments that you can impose. I think two things are important. Firstly, if there are short sentences, there is a very important task for the municipality to take care of someone who comes back after serving his sentence. The prison system is responsible for what happens during the time someone is in detention. Afterwards, the municipality assumes that responsibility if there is aftercare. In particular, at that interface, I see that this can be done much better, for example as regards informing the prison system that someone is released after his sentence, and as far as possible, even in that short time, we are still looking at the situation with regard to the five basic conditions. Perhaps in a warm transfer you can also do some things. So I see a lot of space there in particular. Secondly, one point which I find interesting. We have talked a lot about the course of life in the context of Kurs en Kansen. In my view, this also includes the fact that for some of the suspects, especially those who are systematic, you should check whether a series of short sentences is the most effective. I myself am quite enthusiastic about isd measures. Why? Because then you can bring those people in for a little longer time to get them all through the car wash.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u27	The Minister is not specific enough in what he says. Everything he says, I share, but the question is, of course, what we're going to do to change it. The minister says "you might think about" and "this is interesting," but will there be a plan of action? Is the Minister going to work this out when he continues with the vision of the prison system? Otherwise, it's gonna stick in the air like that. Let us be very honest: we have been talking about this for ten years and it is not getting better. That's kind of a frustration. I want us to put an end to this in practice. So there's gonna be a step-by-step plan to do something with the short-terms? Is this part of that analysis? What are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u28	You refer to the view of the prison system. I forgot to mention in my introduction that many questions from the debate we are now having have to end up there. I want to focus on a number of things, such as providing good information to the municipalities. That's what's missing. We need to make good agreements on that. We must also ensure better cooperation and a warm transfer where possible and necessary. Furthermore, we need to see whether we can do anything to improve screening in the prison system itself, including for short-term punishment, even if there are always restrictions on that. I don't have the illusion that we're gonna be able to pull someone who sits there for a week through the entire car wash. Those are concrete things that we are working on. My ambition is to come up with concrete measures in the perspective of the prison system, where it is not just the issue of capacity but also the question of what extra we can do to prevent recurrence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u29	I broadly agree with what Mrs Van Toorenburg said. I also believe that it will be difficult to eliminate these short sentences altogether. Sometimes people just don't get a job, or they just don't systematically do it, and then you have to. Of course, it's problematic when we say, "You're sitting for two, three weeks, we're not doing anything, and three months later, you're back for two, three weeks." But what I am actually missing in the Minister's answer is that, in my opinion, we should not put the institution and the system at the centre anymore, but the person concerned. I understand that it's hard to set up a whole program in two weeks, but if you know "this is a revolving door criminal, who will be back in a few weeks," I think you can take the steps that will make you come back next time, then don't have to do it all the way from the beginning. Can the Minister indicate that he would like to take it up in those terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u30	The answer is yes. In fact, I would like to go one step further. We shouldn't think too many institutions, like: now you're done here and then you're going to the next one. But of course, someone like that just keeps walking. So what I mean by that better cooperation is, in answer to Mrs Buitenweg's question, what struck me most when I read that report, one of the things I just see, is that there is, for example, a great variety in how municipalities deal with the collaboration with DJI. Of course, municipalities are autonomous in that, but I do want to sit around the table with municipalities to see if we can't learn from the municipalities that are doing well and whether that is not a method that can be taken over by several municipalities. That's what we agreed four years ago in a covenant. I think and I think that covenant needs an update. And I would very much like to make new arrangements with the municipalities in the autumn. I suspect that sometime in the very short term I have heard something say: an intergovernmental programme is agreed with the municipalities, and the fight against repeated crime is also a very important point in the agreements between the Rijk and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u31	Everyone's a little worried about it. Indeed, we are not going to sit on the judge's seat, which can give a judgment, which also provides for a short sentence, and we have to deal with it. However, sometimes these short sentences do not help people enough to return to society. And then people have often gotten into bigger problems, for example because their work has been crossed, they have lost their housing and so on. I agree with my colleagues that we need to map out more precisely for this group, not only during detention about what we do afterwards, but also at check-in, what the consequences of that detention are, and that we start to do so right away. For some, that's not gonna mean anything, but for others, we can work on it. So I call on the Minister to give more specific information on what he wants to do for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u32	That's what we're gonna do. That's what we're gonna do. For the longer punished, if I also read the RSJ's report correctly, the problem is a lot less, because DJI also has time when someone comes in. Then it often has to land for a while, so it often gets past that. It's not like someone's in the booth right away: "I'm gonna get my old life back on track." When you sit for two weeks, it is very difficult to make good appointments in all these areas, to turn the button and to get someone back in the position that he says, "Okay, I don't have to come here a second or a third time, I'm going to work to solve my problems." In the end, of course, that is a mindset, because reintegration is not something we, as a government, do for people. Re-integration is also something they have to do themselves. They have to feel the responsibility to pick up the good things in life. It'll take time. If someone's behind bars longer, it's easier for the prison system to get to work with it. The bottlenecks are in those short sentences. The way I look at it now, we certainly need to get to work on it, and that is really a point I want to come back to later on in terms of the vision of the prison system. But I would like to say immediately that this will not be some sort of total solution where we are going to push everything you need in those two weeks. That's just impossible. So that will mean that you have to make far better arrangements for short-term punishments with all kinds of agencies around the prison system. The municipalities are leading, because they take care of the aftercare, to see how there is better care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u33	Can the Minister also include whether he is in favour of promoting judicial conditions? I understand that we are not talking about court rulings, but the Minister can talk about promoting the more frequent imposition of these conditions. Is he in favour of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u34	I'm more than willing to make those conversations, because it's often a stick behind the door. At the same time, when I look at the law, I see no obstacle to imposing judicial conditions. So you're on the slippery ice of a judge who decides not to impose a suspended sentence. So I would like to enter into this discussion in general, but then it is also the question: why not use the legal instruments that are now in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u35	The Minister notes that we have also read that there is a great deal of difference between municipalities in how they are involved in reintegration. The most striking example I found was the example of the ID cards. At one municipality you are obliged to join the counter, but of course you can't do that if you're stuck. At another municipality, the municipality will come to you in prison to arrange it properly. That is a best practice and a good example. You say that agreements have been made with municipalities in the last four years. Can you indicate whether this information has been exchanged and whether there has been progress, so that more municipalities have learned from the good municipalities and actually put that into practice? Can you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u36	I have had this portfolio for four months now, but I find it complicated to say: I am already seeing a huge increase. I note with you that the RSJ shows good and less good examples, which shows that it can be done on a number of parts. My ambition is much more focused on the future. If you see a number of municipalities picking this up very quickly, they're called by name and name in this report, wouldn't you be able to make the appointment, for example with the VNG, that you aim to pick up that kind of good examples with as many municipalities as possible? That would be my ambition in the revised covenant towards autumn 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u37	The fact that aftercare is a task of the municipality is not new. I think this has been the case for more than 13 years. Making appointments is not new either. I understand that this minister says: I'm going to make appointments, because I want this to come out and then I want it to come out, that prisoners are being screened and that good information is being exchanged with municipalities, to do everything we can to prevent someone from going wrong again and making victims. But the agreements of the past have often not produced sufficient results. I'd like to give that to the Minister. Can he at least include the fact that many agreements from the past have not led to the right results if he is to make new agreements? What's he gonna do now to make sure that changes? Otherwise, we will be years away and then we will have found that we did have good intentions, but that it did not deliver exactly what we intended?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u38	I agree with Mr Van Nispen when he says: we are not here yet. But to say that there is no progression... I find that a little too gloomy. I see nine out of ten leaving prison with an ID. Then you can't say everyone's empty-handed. The previous agreements with municipalities have led to more municipalities having a more active and dynamic approach, which has also led to results. That's what the RSJ report says. So I see it did help. But sometimes it might be good to freshen up those appointments and put it back on the agenda. That's what we want to do, to make those last meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u39	That's good, because I just asked the Minister to take the lead, because it's about security. So we cannot just say that it is up to the municipalities and that is up to the health care institutions. So I ask the Minister about the role of director. I'm gonna make it real concrete. I'd like to look at the glass in such a way that it's half full, because there's a lot going well. But look at the deal, for example, that no one leaves prison without ID. We made that deal with the minister at the time in 2007, but we didn't make it. I would actually like to ask this Minister to now strive to ensure that everyone who leaves prison is in possession of a valid identity card. Let's make it this concrete. Let's make that deal. It can't be that complicated, even if someone's stuck for a few days. That's just a matter of getting organized properly. Can we at least make that appointment today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u40	The aim is nice, but also here the practice. Requesting an ID is ultimately the responsibility of the inmate, not the government. The inmate must make his own application. Every Dutchman has to pay that as well. So we need to look at how we can do this properly for prisoners. What we have to prevent from doing is saying: you have to get an ID, you have to go to a counter, but unfortunately you're behind the walls, so that's practically impossible. You gotta make smart things up for that. That there is an application period that sometimes takes longer than that people are in detention, those are things that we cannot solve as quickly as possible. Yes, the aim is to provide good facilities so that prisoners are encouraged and helped to obtain an ID, but it also requires some of them. You are, especially in the case of short-term punishment, also with a number of practical things that stand in the way of that. I want to see how we can improve that, and I'm going to make arrangements for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mrs. Van Toorenburg, we're still doing a round of interruptions, but you've just been here. The Minister has not yet moved on to the next issue. You nod "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr President, that is right, because I really want to say something about what the Minister is putting down, because I find that worrying. The Minister must realize that about 80% of the people who just, briefly, are in prison are just a desperate squabble club. We can rightly say that you are responsible yourself. Of course you're responsible. I hear the SP say that, but even GroenLinks says that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u43	Even GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u44	Yes, GroenLinks prefers to get rid of the short sentences for the problems we are seeing here. From the left to the right, we know that prisoners have their own responsibility, but we do not help society if we say they have to do it themselves, when we know that this whole bum club is simply not due to it. What are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u45	This also applies: to learn that people also have their own responsibility in life and have to take on some things. Of course, we can help them with that process of learning. But if we take over everything, I don't think these people will end up okay if they have to go back. They also need to learn what it means to find a new job, that you have to provide your own income, that if you have children, you have to take care of that, and that if you are obliged to go out on the street with an ID, that needs to be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u46	Yes, but I would like the Minister to bow down to the Chamber if the Chamber indicates that we all understand that people have their own responsibility. But when that vision of the prison system comes up, I really want it to sound more like this minister too understands that it is a bum club and that, when it comes back to society, we all have a responsibility to ensure that they return safely. We know that everyone has their own responsibility, but if we don't, we'll end up being the victims again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u47	We agree on the objective of reducing repeated crime. I very much believe that we can show improvements in this respect, but in my view not by taking over everything as a government and pampering and pampering everyone. We must do so by pointing out to people their own responsibilities in life and helping them to do so. That's the balance you need to find.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u48	I find it uncomfortable to use in the debate terms such as 'getting rid of it'. That the PVV speaker does so in his term, I understand that from his position, but I ask the Minister not to do so. No one here has argued that prisoners should be pampered. There is a very serious point, namely to what extent the prisoner is now self-reliant and what kind of target group we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u49	I fully agree with that point, but it is a joint responsibility. The prison system must enable people to get back on track, but it also requires some of the inmate himself to move his best foot forward. I do not think we should let go of that balance. We must help and support people as much as possible when it comes to income, getting the right papers and eventually getting a roof over their heads. But it also requires some of the person in question himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u50	I listen with great attention to the contributions of colleagues. If I understand correctly, but I would ask the Minister to confirm or explain differently, the only thing the Minister has in mind is that you do not turn the prison into a care hotel and that your prisoners who have gone wrong do indeed point to taking responsibility for themselves. At least that's what I have in mind. In the knowledge that people are going back into society, of course, we all have to do our best to shape this reintegration so that they do not make another mistake. But prison is also payback. It's punishment, too. Is that what the Minister is trying to achieve in the search for balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u51	However, it is impressive how a debate in which everyone agreed at the beginning degenerates into a different type of discussion. I think that's pretty good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u52	Me too. Maybe everyone chooses their own words and tone. What I want to point out is that I see that there is more possibility of supporting prisoners in reintegration and rehabilitation. Especially in the case of short-term sentences, the scope of the prison system is limited. In the end, a lot depends on whether inmates are willing to put their best foot forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u54	I think I have already said a lot about the covenant with which we are working. Of course, we also take things with us such as ID documents and debt relief. Mr Van Nispen asked for work in prison. I am very much in favour of that. This also applies to the fact that it is more difficult to organise short-term sentences in practice than for the longer-term prisoners, because they often reside in separate institutions. But if you can give them something if they're behind bars for a while, at least that's some work ethic. Maybe they can learn a trade or get a diploma. They are not automatically better people if they leave prison again, but at least they have something in their pocket that will give them a better chance in the outside world if they want to. I am in favour of that, and that will certainly be a part of the vision of the prison system. Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Kuik asked about meaningful daily spending after detention. That's very stuck with cooperation with municipalities. These are social services that can play a role in the question: can we find a job again and can you make agreements with the local business community, including the people, the individuals for whom it is more difficult to get back to work? I'd like to take that with me. Mrs. Van der Graaf asked if volunteers could do anything. That too is a specific task of the coalition agreement. I'm definitely working on that. Following the government agreement, the funding framework for this voluntary service has also been increased. A new funding framework is currently being developed, which stimulates voluntary organisations to focus on effective and high-quality guidance more than the current framework. Finally, the answer to a meta-question: could you shape things differently in cooperation? A question was asked about the Norwegian model. I believe that Mr Grothuizen asked that question. I find it interesting to see what we can learn from that. The Norwegians do have a very different system than we do. In Norway it is not the prison that is in the lead, but the municipality, to direct and bring all this together. But that the municipality or parole can provide care, not only after detention, but perhaps even somewhat during detention, I find an interesting thought to get started. That will certainly come back in the vision. Mr. Chairman. Then I wanted to move on to the questions that were asked about the screening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u55	Before you continue, Mrs. Van der Graaf has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u56	A brief question about the volunteers. It's a good thing you see their value, too. They are of real value when it comes to a sustainable and successful return to society. They proved that, too. My question was more focused on the elaboration of the government agreement and your vision of the prison system. Are you going to give volunteers a structural place in the reintegration policy and in your view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yeah, that'll come back. In the overall package of what you can do against recidivism there is of course cooperation with municipalities and public authorities, but this is certainly also included.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. Then a number of questions have been asked about the screening and the role that the probation could possibly play. I believe that a distinction should be made between long-term and genuinely short-term penalties, for whom judicial conditions often do not play a role. For them I have less of a role of probation in mind. In my view, the role of probation is obvious for those who are punished longer with, for example, conditional sentences or for whom all kinds of conditions play a role. I would like to try not only to give the probation a role at the end of a sentence, but also earlier, because you know that sooner or later they come around the corner. Then they can advise. The probation gives advice on interventions, even where there are no judicial conditions. I want to see if we can get them more involved. However, I must inform you immediately that a suggestion made by Mr Van Nispen that parole should, by default, be subject to screening by all inmates as far as capacity is concerned. I do not see any immediate added value of the parole on the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u60	I regret, however, that the ambition for the role of probation is now being considerably reduced. If I hear the minister correctly, he won't see that role in short-term punishment. I can imagine that you are indeed doing that at the beginning, as Mr Van Nispen said, and I think Mr Groothuizen too. That doesn't mean that you have to make a whole plan for everyone, but that you start by looking at what the consequences are and what someone needs. That can't be anything. I would nevertheless ask the Minister to think about this and perhaps present us with different options if he presents his plans for the role of probation, including in the case of short-term punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u61	I want to look at that, of course, but also the probation has to do with a capacity that makes them have to make choices. If someone has a two-week sentence, without legal conditions, a case in which parole does not come around the corner now, then I think that good agreements should be made between DJI and municipalities, because they have to take care of the care. I do not know immediately whether the probation has a lot of added value in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u62	The point I made was precisely this: all kinds of financial frameworks have now been set, while I think we should first look at what we think is desirable, because it can also save money in the long term. If people do not go wrong again, it will spare society, the victims, the potential victims. It will also save extra money if people do not have to be taken back into detention. So I'd rather have the Minister explain a vision first. Then we can see what budgetary frameworks that fits into.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u63	I wish it were so beautiful in life. I come up with a vision. I will also mention screening and a broader role for parole. I'm just giving you a quick look: if this is going to apply to the entire population, I think the shoe is going to wring there. But I will motivate this in the vision with which I come this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u64	I have a brief addition to this. Not only do we give a lot of money if we manage to reduce the recidivism, but it also saves a lot of social misery and suffering for victims. I would point out, however, that the budget for the probation is not a fixed one. Its level is a political choice and we determine it here. The probation now has a role to play in advance and advises on the sentence before the judge. And the probation has a role to play afterwards, in the judicial conditions. So that remark stems from the fact that in practice we indicate that there is no continuous process. We've been signaling that for years. There's no one who keeps seeing the person who's involved. That is why it is very important to see what a firmer role of probation can add. I agree. What could be added to such a role to prevent someone from getting out of the picture, that at one point the penitentiary institution is responsible, then the municipality, at another time another care institution and that no one has the overall picture in mind anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u65	Let me go into this in more detail about the vision of the prison system. It is not the case that the probation is in the picture with all the penalties. This is not the case especially in the case of short-term penalties. I believe that 30% of the penalties are shorter than two weeks and about half less than a month. If you want to do that across the board, it's gonna take a hell of a lot. Those short sentences are usually punishments where the parole hearing does not or hardly come around the corner. You should also ask yourself whether this active role of probation is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u66	Okay, then we're gonna ask ourselves that after it's been visualized. But among other things professor of probation Van der Laan has pointed out that there can also be a role for probation in the municipal aftercare, if you would like. Now we leave it to the policy freedom of municipalities about how they organize that kind of thing. I would like that scenario to be worked out, or at least something in that direction, so that we can make choices in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u67	I'll go into that. But you also see a little bit where I come from. I'm just messing with you. What can you ask an organization? What's real? What can they do in the end and how do you use the capacity you have in the most effective way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u68	I'd like to know how far you're going with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr President, I thought: I am going through it fairly quickly, but because of the many interruptions it is not very successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u70	That doesn't quite work, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u71	At the same time, a lot is being captured. I think I have already said a lot about screening and the role of parole. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about screening for multiple cell placement. I don't know if I fully understood her question. They're looking closely at whether someone is eligible for such a cell. There are criteria. If they occur, it is said: it is not. This happens if, for example, there is a mental illness or a certain state of health, or if the nature of the crime imposes certain restrictions. Then there is explicitly no choice for placement on a multi-person cell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u72	I see Mrs Van Toorenburg wants to interrupt. I would like to know if you will answer all of Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions first, Minister. Then you will have the opportunity for a final interruption, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yeah, I've got some stuff on residence and on data exchange, Mr. Chairman. There may well be a question from Mrs Van Toorenburg as well. I'm done on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u74	No, I want to hear all of Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions first. I want to do this by spokesperson. Then it's a little more structured.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u75	Oh, yeah. I'll check my papers. I have another question from Mrs Van Toorenburg about the place of residence. Would you like me to go into that now, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mrs Van Toorenburg asks why prisoners are now forced to return to their homes. An ex-con is free to decide where he wants to live after his sentence. When there is a judicial framework, it can be restricted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u78	I don't mean to be silly, but on two points, the Minister just says something that doesn't make sense. First of all, there is not a proper screening of multiple cells. We've got word from the prison system about that. They say they're not coming to that. In an earlier debate, the Minister indicated that he would investigate that, so I would really advise him to do so. With regard to the residence principle, the RSJ, who is not praised for nothing by the minister, indicates that there is a bottleneck here, because one cannot just go to the municipality where one wants to go because that municipality thinks: go back to Rotterdam, otherwise I get a welfare claim. So it's a serious problem and that's why I did it. I would therefore like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u79	When it comes to the principle of residence, of course, it depends on whether someone still has a house. Not every inmate who comes out of prison is without a place to live and stay. So someone can just go back to the family he lives in. There are specific cases where it is said that it is not wise to go back to your place of residence, for example if there are victims involved in serious sexual and violent crimes. Then good agreements must be made and someone can be forced to live elsewhere. So let me look at the point that Mrs Van Toorenburg wants to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u80	I can say it a little lively; then it might also be more fun for the public gallery. Ronnie Flex himself says: The only way out of addiction is not to return to the neighborhood where I lived, so I'm leaving. You're right. That's what we hear inmates say. A lot of addicted inmates, especially the women, say, if there's one place I don't have to go back to, that's where I come from. Now the RSJ indicates that this is a major problem, because municipalities do not cooperate in placing in another municipality. I've been saying that for ten years and I keep saying it. I have prepared a motion on it, because I really think that this is the time to change it. Make sure those inmates are free to settle somewhere else, or we'll pull them right back into the mud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u81	Concrete question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u82	I'd really like to look at that, but I think when you're done with your punishment, you're free to go and stand wherever you want. So I don't quite see where that obstacle is, but I'd like to dive in if I'm doing Mrs Van Toorenburg a favor with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u83	I need to think about that last remark. Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u84	I would like to support Mrs Van Toorenburg, but with a different approach. Mrs Van Toorenburg says: do not put those prisoners back, because that is not good for them. I hear the Minister say that in some cases it may be possible to arrange that prisoners should not come back, because it would be dramatic for the victims. That word "dramatic" comes from me. I would like, therefore, for a different reason from Mrs Van Toorenburg, that the Minister is much more compelling to assist those victims and much more often prevents them from coming back. The Minister himself states that, in some cases, I can deal with this already. But can the Minister indicate in what cases he now arranges that? He's talking about serious sex crimes. I'd say it's also a minor sex crime. If someone's committed a sex crime, I think they should never come back to the neighborhood where they committed a sex crime, where there was a murder or something else bad happened. So I'd like to protect those victims. I would like to know from the Minister what he is doing now, how he can actually make sure that prisoners do not return, because it sounded just too vague. It sounded just more like some sort of polder consultation that needs to be done and that something might be arranged. I would like some kind of perseverance from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u85	Yes, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u86	That is not the power of perseverance of the minister, which is the power of perseverance of the judge, who can determine whether someone returns to his old place of residence, in the vicinity of the victim, or whether it is said that someone is kept to move because we want the contact between victim and, for example, a serious sex offender to be minimized as much as possible. That's where the perseverance is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u87	Short follow-up question. The Minister has heard Mrs Van Toorenburg and I have now said something from a different angle. What does the Minister himself think of the current practice, in which, in my opinion, the judge does not arrange enough for relocating to a neighborhood?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u88	I believe that current practice is working in principle. Why? Because this is a rather radical thing. You're saying that after you're in detention, you can't go back to the place where you lived. That is why we explicitly do so in the case of those convicted of fairly serious crimes. I see that this is being used as well. You don't tell a bike thief: you can't go back to your hometown. There really has to be a reason and you have to avoid confronting the victim. I believe that Mrs Van Toorenburg's point is a completely different one. Mrs Van Toorenburg's point is that she says that some prisoners should not return to their old neighborhood or to their old congregation, they should live elsewhere. I can very well imagine. The question is whether this should always be done automatically and whether there are obstacles for prisoners to do so. Basically, when you're done with your punishment, you're free to move elsewhere. Then the question is whether all this should be settled from the prison system. What if someone wants to go back to the heart of Amsterdam, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u89	That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u90	So it's up to the government to settle that? I want to dive in there, but I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u91	Hartje Amsterdam will never succeed! Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u92	That is a good point, Madam President. Because that's exactly what this is about. Mr Van Toorenburg does not say that the judge has to do everything, or the prison system, it is about the fact that municipalities often do not cooperate. This is also what the RSJ report says when they return to their municipalities of ex-convicts, for example because they are afraid that this will cost them benefits. The request to the Minister is therefore to enter into consultation with these municipalities to ensure that this is possible. That is how I see Mr Van Toorenburg's request. And that has not been sufficiently answered by the Minister. Maybe he can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u93	A roof over your head is essential. If that is what this is about, I want to make agreements with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u94	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u95	Then I guess I also answered the question about living quarters. Maybe there's something else about regional placement. I agree with the RSJ that this is highly preferable. It's sometimes a little under pressure because of capacity issues and the closure of prisons, which makes your network less dense. What we are increasingly seeing is that with a growing problem, prisoners must also be included in specialised sections. After all, not every municipality or not every institution has a department where, for example, psychiatric patients can be well helped. You'd be a little farther away from your hometown. It is now about 40% of the capacity of detainees in such a special department, which makes regional placement a challenge. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the data exchange. It is right that the RSJ makes that point, and in my view it is also right that the RSJ and the Personal Data Authority have pointed out in a painful place and have said: there is now sometimes an exchange when there is actually no legal basis for it. I see the need and the desire to exchange certain data, but then it has to be arranged properly and properly. I want to do that in three ways. First of all, a decision on judicial and criminal matters was recently given in consultation. I expect that to come back very soon. It is a decision that allows municipalities to inform about the beginning and end of detention, so that they can take a number of measures. When the decision is back from consultation, I'd like to formalize it quickly. The second thing we do is about broader information, including the five elements the RSJ mentions. Much is already being done, but on the basis of the consent requirement, i.e. with the cooperation of detainees. I've heard well that some of you say that's not enough, but it has a great advantage that you can have a conversation, including with the prisoners, why it's important to work on that kind of thing. You can get information, but sometimes it's complicated. When it comes to certain debt information, there is not a public authority that has it fully on the table at the press of a button. So if you have the cooperation of a convict, that makes it doubly effective. Then there's the third step. It is said that if inmates do not want to give permission or do not want to cooperate, would you not want to have certain information or give certain information to a municipality if someone goes back? I would like to look very carefully at what information it is about. You know, if you're making room for that, for example in a bill on data exchange partnerships, then you also have to justify why that is necessary. Then that information really needs to be used. The simple collection of a lot of information about ex-convicts, without anything to do with them, also brings with it all kinds of risks. I'd like to take a good look at that. We need to have a sound basis in terms of proportionality and subsidiarity. But I can very well imagine that there are certain data on which you can make good agreements, so that you can exchange them more freely with municipalities and other bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u96	I have a bit of a feeling that there is almost a Chamber-wide desire to be able to share that information. Maybe I speak for my turn, but municipalities need to know who's coming to live with them. The Minister now says: I am going to look very critically at it to see what is possible and so on. I wonder what the Minister is afraid of. We're talking about reintegration here. We want these people who have been convicted of a crime to have another chance in society. There is then talk of aftercare by municipalities, but then municipalities must know what that gentleman, or madam, has done, what has led him to do, whether he has an identity card and whether he is listed in the registers? What's the fear of not wanting to share that information? What's that gonna stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr Van Oosten raises this point, but is it always necessary for a municipality to know exactly what someone has done? In the case of sex crimes and in the case of serious violent crimes, we have said that this is relevant, but the question is whether it is true for all crimes or whether it might be enough to know that someone has been in and out for two weeks. I understand that the municipality must be alerted, but whether the municipality should know exactly what someone has been doing, you can have a discussion about that. I don't know if that's gonna pass the test in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u98	But then it is relevant for this discussion to know what municipalities themselves want on this point. I take it for granted, but perhaps too soon I will talk about the fact that municipalities really appreciate that information because they may want to provide tailored care or something like that to that particular resident. It can cause major nuisances in the neighbourhood again and it may be able to commit another crime. Hopefully not in the form of a sex crime, but in the form of crime, ordinary asshole behavior and you name it all. That's what a municipality, I imagine, wants to respond to. So will the Minister at least actively discuss this issue with the municipality so that it can be taken into account and listened to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u99	Absolutely, but this really requires that we go round the table with the authorities to ask what exactly is needed and why. Then we also need to check whether that is justified, or whether it might come from some kind of need that more information is always better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u100	Actually, I'd like to suggest that you finish, but finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u101	In addition to what I just said, too much information may be bothering reintegration, because it also gives people a huge stigma when they come out. So I'm sure I'd like to talk to congregations about it, but we have to weigh all those parts, so what information is asking who? I have two short topics. First of all, concern. Oh, I'm sure you're going to talk to me punitively now, because I also had a question from Mrs Van Toorenburg about the ggz-courses and how we are facing the position paper that has been published on them. I support the notion that it may be useful to start dealing with the problem at hand. Tests are currently being carried out with so-called "care officers" in p.i.Let's see. These are people who have certain powers in the area of care and can therefore also exchange certain information. Mrs Buitenweg asked about the state of play of the field standards. This concerns more than just forensic care, because field standards, of course, also specifically monitor the secure beds from the health insurance companies. We are still striving for 1 April to make good agreements on this. VWS is in the lead there, but in the whole context of confused people it would help if meters were made there. That is our ambition. Finally. Mr Van Oosten asked about the non-compensation of damage to victims; can this be taken into account in the demands about vi? I think that is an interesting idea, where we should always look at the difference between not being able and not wanting to pay. Maybe you should broaden it: is someone willing to agree on a payment arrangement in order to ultimately compensate for the damage that has been done to victims? In any case, it is a suggestion which I would like to take with me in the further elaboration of the amendments concerning the whole system of early release, as agreed in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u102	I hear Mr Markuszower "no, wait!" Screaming. Relax, Mr. Markuszower. Did you leave a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u103	Yes, actually my main question: what is the effect and what are the costs of this reintegration? Can the Minister promise that he's going to investigate that thoroughly now? Does he want to do a country comparison study? I have also mentioned a number of countries which I would like him to include in the research. Can we also examine what is now the recidivism after two years, after five years, after ten years and after fifteen years? Does the Minister finally agree with me that if we can't measure all that at the moment, we can't really know either? So that's basically all that's just said is air, because we don't know the effects. Specifically, can the Minister undertake such a large-scale country comparison study? That may take a while, but I think it's very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u104	I think it would be no harm at all to take a look at what the WODC has already done in the field of international competition and if there are additional questions, see if they would not want to pick that up. I mean, we can learn from what happens in other countries. I thought at the very beginning of my speech I had already given some information on how to say more about effective aftercare methods, because we are now going to combine the monitor aftercare with the repeat monitor to see if there is a correlation between certain care that people have received and the possibly lower relapse of these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u105	Aftercare is part of the care given to prisoners in reintegration projects. I'm in favour of a much larger investigation. The WODC has already studied a lot and the conclusions are at this point: we don't really know what the effect of all this reintegration and parole is. I find it really strange that no one here in the Chamber, not the minister, not the government, is spending so much money at least EUR 104 million, because I could get that out of the budget, but probably twice or three times as much on probation without knowing what the effect is and whether there is any effect. That is what the WODC itself says, the Minister's own research office. If we're spending so much money together, it seems to me that we need to know if it's spent usefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u106	I just gave you two things. When it comes to aftercare, I think Mr Markuszower is being served. I have also indicated that I would like to sit around the table with the WODC to see what is available for international competition. If we can learn from that, it's fine to set something like that in motion. The third is this. Mr Markuszower says that we do not know what is working at all, but that is simply not true. We know from a lot of scientific research what the factors are that are very relevant and decisive for the question of whether someone is repeating again. Think of a roof over your head, income and so on. From the prison system, together with municipalities, they are working on the establishment of such facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u107	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u108	I'm just quoting the WODC. In their 2014-2016 investigation, relapse in recidivism, it says literally: "Is the reduction of criminal recidivism a policy effect, or is it a reflection of falling crime in general?" The implicit answer is here: we don't know!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u109	Of course, we can shop in the reports. I know this report, too. There are really stacks of scientific studies that show what reduces the chance of repetition. Then it is not so crazy that municipalities and prisons are using things like jobs, ID, income, etc. and that steps are being taken to support people in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think today has become clear that there is still a lot of work to be done. I also hear the Minister say that he is going to work out a number of issues seriously, both with regard to probation and with regard to the prison system. I would like to highlight two aspects today. First of all, we discussed the principle of residence. The RSJ explicitly says it's getting harder to place someone else. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the starting point is that an inmate goes back to the municipality where he/she was/she was registered (the so-called residence principle);]] [[Whereas it is sometimes not desirable for a prisoner to return to the municipality of origin;]] [[Whereas it appears increasingly difficult to place an ex-con elsewhere in view of the fear of assistance costs;]] [[calls on the government, together with the municipalities, to ensure that municipalities cooperate more flexibly in setting up ex-convicts elsewhere,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Van der Graaf, Buitenweg, Grotehuizen and Kikken.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28719-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u112	I come to another aspect, namely the fact that prisoners are still placed back with a very high profile, where only the mayor knows what is going on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the exchange of information between penitentiary establishments, municipalities and their chain partners is inadequate, inter alia because of the lack of a legal basis for the exchange of data;]] [[having noted that the Government is preparing an amendment to the Decision on judicial and criminal matters (Bjsg);]] [[calls on the Government to include a regime in the Bjsg allowing the exchange of information on offences committed by an inmate, so that, in addition to the mayor and his agent, the aftercare coordinator is also informed about the nature of the crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28719-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u113	Yes, yes, certainly, I have a brief question for Mrs Van Toorenburg. She mentions a decision in her motion. I will leave out the precise title. Is it also conceivable that we have just had a dialogue with the Minister about the fact that a legal basis is being organized by another means, or should it necessarily take place in that decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u114	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u115	If it's possible in another decision, I'm fine with it. It is up to me to say here as a Chamber that we consider this to be very important. I now also get the feeling that people in the public administration are thinking: can we do all that and can we do all that? Let me be honest with you. We're gonna have to take care of it. Municipalities are entitled to this information, otherwise they will not be able to work on aftercare. So maybe we should do it in a legal arrangement or in a decision. That is the purpose of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr President, for the short time I have, I will confine myself to tabling motions. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas penitentiary establishments, municipalities and chain partners experience difficulties in exchanging data among themselves;]] [[considers that more information should be exchanged between municipalities, penitentiary establishments and chain partners in order to better guarantee the five basic conditions (ID proof, accommodation, income, debt problems and care);]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether a legal basis can be created on the basis of which data on these five basic conditions can be shared with municipalities and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the current system there is voluntary care in the municipalities on the one hand and judicial care in which the probation is responsible on the other, which does not guarantee continuity;]] [[considers that it is desirable that at least one organisation should be involved in the whole process of guidance, supervision and care, which already begins in the penitentiary establishment;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the probation can be given a more central position throughout the process of detention to return to society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that prisoners are still prevented from leaving prison without a valid ID and that problems with other basic conditions for the proper reintegration of many inmates also occur;]] [[believes that addiction problems, debt problems and psychological problems of prisoners should be addressed as far as possible in detention;]] [[Considering that this type of problem hampers the chances of successful reintegration and thereby increases the risk of recurrence;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with municipalities and healthcare bodies in order to reach cooperation agreements aimed at facilitating or supporting (ex-) detainees during and after detention in order to get the basic conditions in place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Kikken and Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28719-103]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Kikken and Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28719-104]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Kikken and Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28719-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Madam President. We started this morning with Mrs Van Toorenburg, who said that she has been drawing on this dossier for ten years and that there is not enough progress. Even now, I am not sure that this progress will be made in the next few years. It is also up to the Chamber to continue to encourage the Minister to do so. In any case, I find it encouraging that the Minister wants to develop a vision on this issue. He doesn't want to do that in any other area, but I've heard him say the word "vision" a lot here. It's just not quite clear to me when it's coming. At some point, I want to have a path that shows when what is being achieved, to make sure that great steps are taken. Madam President, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is insufficient attention within detention to identify psychological problems which prevent or delay the treatment of detainees;]] [[Whereas forensic ggz can make an important contribution to the prevention of nuisance and safety problems through the treatment of this psychological problem and reduces the risk of recurrence;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for a plan to address ongoing care pathways and to promote access to forensic care and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28719-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke about ten years. The Cabinet has been in office for 100 days. There is an important report with important recommendations. The Chamber was actually quite unanimous. We are still waiting for a vision and conversation with municipalities, so the key question is when we can expect something. That is why I have decided to sign a number of motions to underline the urgency. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Minister for his response in the first term. In my view, the Minister has made it very clear that he has an ambition on this issue of reducing recidivism and promoting a successful return to society. The Christian Union is therefore looking forward to its vision in this area, which will come back to the vision of the prison system. We'll take a good look at that. The same applies to the concrete arrangements with the municipalities. The profit warning has already emerged in the debate. I really hope this leads to good agreements. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to give the involvement of voluntary organisations a structural place in the reintegration policy and to take part in the vision of the prison system. We look forward to that. In particular, I am very pleased that tests are now being carried out to start caring in the institutions. I know some good examples of this too. This really contributes to a successful return to society. The principle of residence and the discussion about it have come back. Returning to the place of origin leads in many cases to relapse in old behavior, in wrong behavior. We really need to help prevent that. That is why I have signed Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion for a resolution on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u122	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u123	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I drew attention to the committee on conditional release, which, as far as I am concerned, should be set up. Not only victims, but also relatives should be able to play a prominent role. This is relevant to this debate because, as far as I am concerned, this committee also has a role to play in assessing whether a prisoner can qualify for conditional release and how his reintegration is going to be shaped. I was curious to see how the Minister views this. I haven't heard that answer yet. Then I thought, Mr. Chairman, I'd table a motion as well. That's the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in certain cases the offender did not compensate the victim at the end of his detention;]] [[Whereas this is difficult for victims to digest;]] [[calls on the Government to apply, in principle, the payment by the inmate of an awarded compensation to the victim or the surviving person, if necessary by making a payment arrangement, as a condition for conditional release,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28719-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At times, it seemed like a care debate. I do not have any motions, but I would like to use the second term to call on the Minister to conduct a thorough investigation into the total costs of parole and counselling given to prisoners and ex-prisoners and the effect, read the return, of all these projects. What do other countries do? What are the relapse rates there? It is only when these figures are known that we can know whether the small reduction in repetition is the result of the policy pursued. As long as we do not know these figures, I ask the Minister above all to keep criminals in prison for as long as possible, because society needs maximum protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u125	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. It is a good thing that this debate has resulted in the Minister starting work, enthusiastically even getting to work, with the reduction of recidivism. I think it is true that it is widely accepted in the Chamber that it is very important to work on re-socialisation to bring down the recidivism. I'm not entirely reassured about the short-terms. There has been some debate on this and I understand that you say on the one hand that it is important that people take their own responsibility; of course that is the case. You also know D66 as a party that always relies on people's own strength, but we should not overestimate the strength of a part of this target group. I think it is necessary to intervene once in a while. I actually think that we should address this problem pragmatically. Now just look who you got in front of you and try to play into that. Finally, the discussion on how much do you know now and what can you do with short-term punishment? Also in the discussion on the exchange of information, I often had to think of the old cases that we have within the Security Houses. I think that is where we have already dealt with this problem. It should be quite possible to make use of the knowledge and experience available there. I therefore call on the Minister to make the most of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u127	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. This was the second term. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u128	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the motions, I answer the question when the Chamber can expect the vision of the prison system. That's for the summer recess. I said, in the fall. It's gonna be late fall. This debate is actually helping, because some of the things that we are discussing here will come back to that and it is actually good to have heard from the Chamber some of the important points that she thinks should come back to. So I'm definitely gonna take advantage of that. I would also like to comment on Mr Van Oosten's point. I see him watching now. It won't happen to me twice that I'm not taking his question into account. The same goes for the question about the parole board. Mrs Van Toorenburg has already asked it once in committee. That is one of the things that we take with us throughout the system of conditional release. That'll come back to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. On the motion in part No. 101, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. If she gets a majority, I can include the request in the discussions I have with the municipalities about a revision of the covenant. The motion in part No. 102 I must dissuade in this form. That is actually because it says: give all the congregations information about all the prisoners showing why they have been detained. For some crimes that is understandable, but I think that goes a long way across the board. What I would like to do, also in order to respond to Mrs Van Toorenburg's and Mrs Kuiken's requests, is to talk to municipalities about what exactly is needed. I would also like to say to Mr Groothuizen that the experiences in the Safety Houses will also be taken into account to see what exactly can be done. With this legal analysis of what information are we talking about, is it really necessary and can it pass the test of proportionality and subsidiarity? I will come back to the Chamber so that it can be the basis for adjusting the rules accordingly. I think it should be possible to come up with a well-thought-out system if the Chamber gives me six months to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u130	I think the Minister is asking me to hold the motion because I am asking for 'a' arrangement to be made. I am not asking for all data on everyone to be shared by definition. I'm going to put this on the back-up that the RSJ is talking about. This is the toughest category, where the mayor is told that someone is coming to his congregations, while no one knows what needs to be done. If the Minister agrees to this, I can hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u131	Then I'll admit it. That also gives me room to see for which category of offences you might want to do so. I'll take that with me in those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u132	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (28719, No. 102). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u133	I'm gonna do what's in the motion in part no. 103 to me. So I'd like to take over that motion. I'm gonna start these conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u134	I will see if anyone objects to taking over Mr Van Nispen's motion. in piece No. 103. I see that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u135	The motion in part No. 104 I advise in this form. It calls for changes in the responsibilities of the system, for more emphasis to be placed on parole and for an indication of how I intend to do so. I really think that's a step too far. What I'd like to do is see how you and where you can give the parole board a bigger role. In the run-up to the vision of the prison system, I would like to keep the space open to consider. This motion already sort out on one of the options. On the motion in part No. 105, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 106. Let's see if I can do it. I would like to ask Mrs Buitenweg whether she would like to take this motion. That's because there's already a lot going on. We're in the middle of an experiment on the care officers. The programme Continuity of Care is running and in the spring of 2018 the Chamber will also receive an update: where are things going well, where are some things to be done? In the view of the prison system, too, I will dwell on the concern for prisoners who need it. If I now go along with making a separate plan of approach, I'm a little afraid that I'm getting some sort of stacking of pathways and projects. Perhaps Mrs Buitenweg would like to continue this motion until the letter has appeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u136	What are you doing with this motion, Mrs Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u137	The reason for this motion is that things happen everywhere, snapshots, things happen, and that I just want to clear up what's going on. If the Minister says that he is now very busy and that we will be informed about this within a year, I will take my motion. It is precisely my concern that we should see a better structure and that the Minister should consult with his colleagues to ensure that this is done. But I'm holding this motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u138	At the request of Mrs Buitenweg, I propose her motion (28719, No. 106). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u139	The last motion, Mr Van Oosten's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr. Chairman. That last motion, if adopted, actually instructs me to include it in the revision of the conditional release system. I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I await the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr Grothuizen on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u142	Yes, Mr. Chairman, just to be clear. I understand the intention behind this motion. I just wonder if it fits into the current system of Article 15d of the Criminal Code. Is the Minister actually saying that he's going to investigate whether we need to amend the law in order to carry out this motion? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u143	We are coming up with plans to adapt the whole system around vi, and that also calls for legislative changes. Let me give you a little bit of a look: where it happens genericly, we can look at it more specifically; and the duration is also reduced in the longer sentences. That calls for an adjustment in any case. My point is that you can then set conditions for granting early release. If the House says in a majority that it considers this important as part of it, I could live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u144	Yes. Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u145	I also understand, of course, the idea behind this motion: people who have been convicted simply have to pay. But this motion makes no distinction between people who don't want to and people who can't pay. Does the Minister recognize that? And now he says: even though the motion is in its present form, I am going to make that distinction in any case? My second question is about the people who could, but do not want to pay. Surely there are possibilities to deal with them, with impound, with hostage, with a replacement custody; well, you name it? In other words, is this necessary? Can't what this motion aims to do, namely to force people to pay if they are convicted of doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u146	I make a distinction between "not being able" and "not wanting." But if I look closely at the operative part of Mr Van Oosten's motion, I see that he has taken that into account. It says: "if necessary by making a payment arrangement." We have payment arrangements for people who cannot put the money on the table at once, but are prepared to do so spread out. That will be dealt with. Secondly, there are indeed other ways of enforcing this. The question is whether you think it is a sign of good behavior if at the end of his sentence someone refuses a payment arrangement or compensation to the victim. I imagine that will be taken into account in the final decision to release someone on probation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u147	Finally, very briefly. You are free to vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u148	As the Minister says now, it does sound quite different from what the motion says, namely to use this as a condition in principle. That is quite different from what the Minister is saying. I agree with the Minister's reading, but I do not agree with the wording of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u149	But there's no light in there. You asked me two things about "not being able" and "not wanting." This also takes into account the people who can't. And when a decision is taken on granting conditional release, a number of things will be looked at, such as behaviour during detention and a number of other things. I do not think it would be surprising if we looked at someone's willingness to make a recovery towards the victims of the damage suffered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u150	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-3.u151	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
