ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV to answer his questions about punishing the insulting of the prophet Muhammad and the demand of mosques to ban Wilders from Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Freedom of expression is under attack, especially when it comes to Islam criticism. For example, the European Court of Human Rights recently maintained the criminal conviction in Austria of a woman who suggested that the so-called prophet Muhammad had paedophile tendencies, while it is well known that Muhammad was a paedophile. Nota bene in the Hadith, the Islamic traditions state it. I quote Bukhari: "And he married Aisha when she was 6 years old and consummated that marriage when she was 9. Muhammad, even today still the example for one and a half billion Muslims, had sex with a 9-year-old girl and then you're a pedophile. How come when you talk about that, you get convicted? How can you be judged for telling the truth? Can the Minister distance himself from that absurd ruling of the European Court of Justice? No one should ever be condemned for speaking the truth about Muhammad or Islam. It is also crazy that because of tweets I made myself with similar statements about Muhammad now hundreds of Turkish mosque organizations in the Netherlands are threatening to go to court to force me to cancel my account on Twitter. That is an example of the sick urge to silence all Islamist critics. How does the Minister feel about that? How does he feel about the fact that a Pakistani clergyman recently called on Muslims to kill me? I didn't hear him say a fatwa about me. Does the Minister agree with me that it is unacceptable that our ambassador to Pakistan is now threatened by those extremist barbarians there? Religious criticism is allowed. To speak the truth about Muhammad may. It's okay to make a cartoon. All this is allowed in this country, because freedom of expression is the most precious thing we have. But we have to defend it. We must have the courage to defend that freedom every day. This can be done by giving up on this strange ruling by the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Freedom of expression is certainly one of the pillars of our society. People in that society have a great freedom to think and say what they want. If someone thinks that another person makes unlawful statements in the Dutch legal sphere, it is up to the person who finds that to submit them to the Dutch court. The Chamber knows I'm not going in there. That is the separation of powers. If a person finds that an expression is punishable in the Netherlands, it can be declared in the Netherlands. We have an excellent police force in the Netherlands, an excellent Public Prosecutor's Office and an excellent judiciary. They shape a system of law that is of high quality and comes to balanced judgements. That system is at the service of everyone who participates in Dutch society. As regards the ECHR's ruling, that Court confirmed that it is up to the independent court to rule. Finally, I would like to make it clear that at the end of August, at the beginning of September, I made it very clear that I am committed to freedom of expression, and also to the security of your Chamber, President, and its members, whether they are expressing what others do not agree with. I also made that very explicit in connection with the cartoon competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	When it comes to the ruling of the European Court of Justice, this is, of course, the worst answer he could have given. I would have hoped that the Minister would say: that judgment of the European Court of Justice, I will refrain from doing so. For that freedom of expression is our most important freedom and our most important achievement. For myself it is about the only freedom, Madam President, which I have left, but it is now being thrown too far. By judges in Austria. Through the European Court of Justice. But also by politicians who have, to this day, opened borders, allowed millions of Muslims to enter and instead demanded that they assimilate, bow and accommodate Islam in our society. Politicians who make laws to silence Islam critics because they are too cowardly to defend our freedoms. And with that, Madam President, they are signing the capitulation and throwing away our freedoms, which our parents and grandparents have fought for. Austria, Minister, has reprehensible laws, but the European Court legitimizes them. The European Court says to Muslims: you are in charge here and we even protect you from the truth. I do not want such a European Court, Madam President! I don't want a court to shut us up. I also do not want Turkish mosque organisations going to trial in five countries to restrict our freedoms. This is the Netherlands! If you prefer to live under Islamic laws, leave the Netherlands. Then go live in an Islamic country. Mr. Chairman. Our freedoms are worth more than the politically correct institutions such as the European Court, where judges behave like scared, cowardly people. People capitulating. Traitors of freedom. Enough of that. Defending freedom is our expensive duty. I call on the Minister to take that seriously. Not reading a prepared text, but taking this seriously. You are now saying that you are standing beside you the judgment of the European Court, which condemned someone and confirmed the conviction of someone who spoke the truth about Muhammad. That's what you should do. If you don't, all your talk is for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna start with what I ended my first term with. That is why I stand for the freedom and security of Mr Wilders and all the other 149 Members of Parliament, as well as the members of the First Chamber. Having said that, it is true that the European Court of Human Rights has said that the national court as an independent judge is best placed to rule on matters relating to freedom of expression. I stand for the quality and integrity of our judiciary and our Public Prosecutor's Office. As far as I am concerned, they are beyond doubt, and you can always call me on that. But as I said earlier, and everyone knows this, it is part of the separation of powers that the Minister of Justice is not going to interfere in the content of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	I am very sorry, however, that it is such an extremely procedural and, frankly, very light answer from the Minister. Because it is actually a very interesting issue in substance. Freedom of expression is crucial and opinions can also hurt. But what does the judge say: statements may be punishable if they result in certain groups being permanently marginalised, which means that they themselves cannot exercise their rights properly in society. Where exactly that border lies also depends on the situation in a country. That brings us to the situation where the scope for saying what you want is more limited in a country where there is a lot of xenophobia. If you then make an expression that is populist or extreme right or in any other way an insult, it can be interpreted as quite offensive. Then it will also effectively pose a problem for minority rights. I ask the Minister to comment on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	So I want some more content...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mrs Buitenweg, it is a supplementary question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	I'm not gonna go with you as a-then reasoning. I can say that the Netherlands has a free and open society, in which an open debate takes place and in which everyone can feel safe and at home. I believe that the way in which our institutions, the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office, I have just mentioned them, function well, independently but also under the critical eye of the people's representatives, is already a very clear expression of them. I certainly do not think this is a procedural answer, if I am simply very much in favour of the integrity and quality of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. I don't think that's light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	Then back to the judge's verdict. Because the judge in Austria also said that Muslims are entitled to protect their feelings and preserve religious peace, in this case in Austria. I wonder how the Minister qualifies Mr Wilders' actions that he has just done. Second. The NCTV report, recently but also in 2015, talks about the threat of a truly extreme right and that Mr Wilders is working in the Netherlands as a sort of terrorist magnet. Does the Minister agree that part of the danger is there and that we should do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	I've said something a few times about the separation of powers. As a member of the executive, I think I am the last to make judgments about the representative power here. On the contrary, I thought it was the case that I answer to you here and not you and your Chamber with me. If that has changed by now, I would naturally like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	The minister just said in response to questions from me that he stands for freedom of speech. At the same time, he does not renounce the ruling of the European Court. I'll tell the minister that those two don't go together. The European Court says that the condemnation of a woman who spoke the truth about Muhammad, who had Islam criticism, was justified criticism. These statements, although they were about Austria in this case, also have an effect on the Netherlands. They can be used by Dutch judges and prosecutors in court cases. So I'm gonna ask the Minister one more time. If you really think that freedom of expression is important, then you will now waive that ruling of the European Court of Justice. If you don't, when it comes to freedom of speech, you are someone who surrenders to Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	The ECHR's ruling is not in any way a chapter on the freedom of expression of anyone. As far as I am concerned, the Court explains legally clear terms, but the legal aspect is a bit of my home, that it is up to the national court, in this case the Austrian court, to determine whether anything is punishable under national, Austrian law. That is an explanation that I can fully respect. It is precisely because I am such a supporter of freedom of expression that I would like to give it to anyone who has certain criticisms of me, but I think I can also say that this criticism is not justified in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	Then I'm going to ask the Minister's opinion. Does he agree with me that Mr Wilder's actions feed fear and hatred of Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	The strength of our society is that we have freedom of speech here. If this freedom of expression goes too far in the opinion of citizens, then it is up to citizens themselves to say: we do not think that this is possible and we are reporting it. I explained that. That's how society works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	But what do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	I continue to stress that I believe that we have an open society in which the debate is sometimes hard on all sides, but in which we always come out in a very good way. At least, that's my experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you.
