ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Mr Pechtold of D66. I shall begin by reading Mr Pechtold's suicide note. "Dear President, dear Khadija, I can hear you thinking, there's another one leaving prematurely. I share the feeling that the flow is sometimes worrying, but after twelve years it has been nice for me. With a mixture of gratitude and melancholy, I will, as of tomorrow, leave the highest office in our parliamentary democracy. The last few years have never been boring for me, and each time there has been a new challenge; not only the growth from three to finally nineteen seats. My role as chairman of the political group was always varied: from building up in the margins, strong opposition and ultimately through constructive opposition to coalition party. I remained in the Chamber very consciously after the formation of the Rutte III cabinet. The craft of MP is a permanent learning process and gives a freedom of thought and action that suits me very well. It is very healthy to continue to think about your own role and effectiveness, despite all the hecticness. This spring, after conversations at home and with friends, I decided that I wanted to stop after the first Prince's Day of this cabinet. The right time for departure does not seem to exist in our work. The right place felt very natural to me: at the congress of my party. A lot has happened and changed since 2006, and yet the years seem to have flown by. My first contribution was about the profile of the President, whom I wanted to make a stronger role in the changed circumstances of our work. My last vote last week was against yet another motion of censure around midnight. Much is said and written about the climate in the Chamber. The warming is often palpable and the cause is also evident: ourselves. But unlike the climate outside, which can be caught in laws and regulations, this is mainly about our own responsibility. I'm certainly not one of those who used to like things better. I've never shook a strong debate myself. Language use can be derailed, but as President, you have plenty of room to correct or set limits. I think Mr Moeizamer is the bureaucratisation of debates, the inflation of instruments such as motions and certainly those of mistrust. The increasingly hyper reactions between media messages and our agenda are holding us hostage in the present and hinder our long-term responsibility. Listening is becoming increasingly difficult and the compromise is no longer valued at its invaluable value. You see, I like to take advantage of this one moment of reflection. I am extremely proud to have been able to express my own ideals and those of my party here for so long. Many have been taken a step further or even realized. The most encouraging thing was that I was allowed to do so with more and more members of my group and now even with six rulers. As an art historian, I was obliged at my stand to commit myself to necessary investments in the cultural sector. Being involved in the purchase of two Rembrandts was my absolute Guilty pleasure. I'm going to miss everything, but especially the colleagues, staff and everyone we call so strikingly "Room dwellers." Thanks to everyone. Keep the collegiality outside the eye of the camera high and cherish it. Reasons for staying longer were absolutely my chair of the Committee on Kingdom Relations and, of course, the Arts Committee. But even there, I have faith that I will have passionate successors. Finally. My future is still uncertain, but that is inherent in our profession. They were privileged and honorable years of my life for me. I've enjoyed it at so many moments. So my last advice to you all is: enjoy it, because before you know it, you're ticking a letter like this. Collegiate and heartfelt greetings, Alexander Pechtold."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Now it's my turn. Dear Mr. Pechtold, dear Alexander, Right after the death of your friend, writer and artist Jan Wolkers, you told on a TV show that as a wedding gift you could pick out a painting from him. It became a painting with a remarkably quiet style of the ferocious writer with dots and stripes and light pastel shades. But you, you said, saw a tremendous passion in it. The robust passion you admired in Wolkers. "Snowstorm" you called the painting at home. And that's how I met you as a politician: like a controlled blizzard. Appearance always calm and controlled. You speak civilized, build well-timed breaks, and I'm jealous of..................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	You always look impeccable, too. Well, yes, at the formation it wasn't. And you adhere to the standards of decency and procedures in the Chamber in every respect. But you also have that robust side, that passion. I want to say goodbye to that passion, because it guides you in achieving your great political successes and important social merits. Your passion for your party, your passion for the House of Representatives and your passion for democracy. I'll start with the party. A mercury cake: that was the characterization that Hans van Mierlo gave to the high peaks and dive flights that D66 traditionally made from the arrival of that party in politics. In 2006, the year you were elected party leader, there was such a valley. The polls were then dramatically low: virtually zero. There were still three of them under your heading. And since then, the dive flights have been over. The bird kept flying up. That can really be written on the conto of your leadership. For starters, you were able to broaden the overly compelling profile of the party. You put the crown jewels further back in the window and provided new spearheads with education, reform and diversity. Your critical notes about political games have been taken to heart by you. The politics somewhat naive image of D66 in the years to 2006 has been lost under your leadership. Even though D66 was among you in the opposition, one way or another you always managed to give the impression that you grew up. I often had to explain to groups of visitors that you really weren't a minister. Many agree with a sitting cabinet was closed and presented in your room. "Constructive opposition" was called, not the only term that you have invaded modern state law. You built D66 into a stable middle party that's not so easy to blow off her pedestal. With this you have added something important to the leadership of your illustrious predecessors Hans van Mierlo, Jan Terlouw, Els Borst. And put yourself in that tradition. Then, of course, there's your passion for the House of Representatives. Before everything else, you've been a racial parliamentarians and a great master of parliamentary debate for the past 12 years. And especially a passionate attacker with a great love for the interrupting microphone. In an interview with Vrij Nederland you compared the political debate with the art of logging. "When chopping," I quote, "one well-targeted blow has more effect than a series of unfocused blows. Just like in the Chamber: with a boisterous monologue you reach less than with one raging interruption." Sharp and witty, that's your debate style. Feel but decent. You take every opponent seriously, no matter how much you disagree with him or her. Your attacks not only concerned cabinet policy, but also the lack of cabinet plans. Other opposition parties also liked to take the measure, to highlight the differences with your D66 sharply. Often you added a little more if you felt that the position of parliament itself was at stake. Whether that was because ministers withheld information from the House of Representatives or otherwise did not take it seriously enough, or because, according to you, fellow group chairmen spoke too much dedain about elected representatives. A sign of democratic respect. I think Mr Wilders is gonna miss his bumper stick. You loved the Chamber and wanted to make the Institute appealing to the people in the country. Your passion for the Chamber was seen not only in the plenary, but also in the committee work. For example, as chairman of the Kingdom Relations Commission. Your energy was beaming off to other committee members, or to anyone who had anything to do with the committee. An example. Quite recently, there was a video conference after the IPKO, the Interparliamentary Kingdom consultation. You were in the Tilanus chamber, ready to report on behalf of the committee. It took a while, but at a certain point all three States of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin were well in sight. You started telling me excitedly. Everyone listened carefully and hung on to your lips. But when you also asked the States of Saint Martin if there were any questions, it turned out that there was no parliamentarians there, but the technician who set up the connection. He would have listened to you breathlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	Nor should the Arts Committee remain undisputed when it comes to your love for the Chamber. It was short-lived, but the results are permanent: the image of Suze Groeneweg that was revealed last week, and of course the flag. The country was too small when we introduced it, but since the Arts Committee interfered with it, every discussion has been silenced. By the way, your love for art was also known across national borders. You just mentioned the purchase of the Rembrandts in your letter. But not just that. From the European Affairs Committee, your delegation was the leader of a working visit to a border town in Macedonia. At the end of the conversation with the mayor in the town hall, a jovial man, he drew an oil painting from the wall and handed it to you, as a thank you for coming, and meant to hang up in the Lower House. You spoke with warm words about the composition and the coloring but did not express yourself, very diplomatically, about the quality of the work of art. The painting never reached the Lower House. I understand you donated the painting to the embassy once outside. But what I've enjoyed most in recent years is, of course, your passion for democracy. You've always defended this house of democracy, with a straight back and a straight head. And wherever possible you were looking for renewal, for improvement, for example by giving the Chamber a greater role in the cabinet formation. I felt very supportive of you during formation. You had a boundless confidence that the Chamber could play the leading role and live up to it. You know better than anyone that a parliamentary democracy exists in the face of the compromise. Much has been achieved under your group leadership. You never could have done that without your ability to work together and forge agreements, both from the opposition and from the coalition. The politician in you thought you had to; the auctioneer in you knew how to do it. Over the last few years, you have taken the lead in major agreements, culminating in the Spring Agreement, which allowed important changes to be made despite the collapse of the then cabinet, such as the reduction of mortgage interest rate deductions and the increase in the AOW age. This has strengthened the position of the Chamber; very important in our dual democracy. Dear Alexander, your parents have taught you from home not to be shy. They didn't just want to help you overcome your youthful embarrassment. It was also a way of saying: do not stand on the sidelines. Dare to open your mouth and take responsibility. You have done so in recent years by reforming the party, using your appealing craftsmanship to make changes and by making constructive opposition in all respects, to the end. Driven by your passion. A controlled snowstorm. We're gonna miss you. That's true, I think, not only for all the residents of the Chamber, but also for all the D66 employees who could gauge your mood when they heard you walking down the hallway, on the second floor of the Justice Department, on their way to your office on the corner. When you sang "What's up through the bushes," they knew you were in a good mood. I hope that's what you're holding on to. Dear Alexander, on behalf of the entire Chamber, thank you very much for everything and a heartfelt adieu!
