ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the debate on Schiphol and Lelystad Airport. I would like to welcome everyone, especially the people in the public gallery. You've waited a long time for this debate. I would like to welcome you, as well as the people who are following this debate through the Chamber's website. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State in trade-K. I shall first give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV Group. Speaking time is seven minutes, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u2	It was a "Thierry Baudetje," as it's called, but it was an accident with me. Madam President. It is a very important debate. I've been looking forward to this for a long time. I am also going to involve the KLM debacle in this, because it is very serious what is happening. But first of all, we are going to talk about flight safety. What we all unanimously consider most important is air traffic safety, flight safety. Several bodies have recently concluded that it is sufficient at Schiphol Airport, but that improvements are needed. We ask the government to take over the opinions of the Security Research Council in its policy and to keep the Chamber of Implementation informed. We would also like a response to the question of how we are kept informed and at what frequency. Every time something happens, we should know it as a controlling organ. A second very important point is the following. Today we have been offered a petition from the Rural Council of Aviation. It's made up of all kinds of neighbors who got together. That is always better, because unity makes power and therefore more power. I sometimes say to my colleagues: let's get more together. So I want these people to be more involved. I want the LBBL, as it is called, to be more involved in all the decisions to be made. I think we all agree on that, too. I would like a commitment from the Minister on this. I want to talk now, also for the people at home, about the ceiling of Schiphol of 500,000 movements. The PVV has always said the following. Schiphol has been there for a century. People who went to live there know and knew because they are usually after Schiphol had already gone to live there. There too, the nuisance should be reduced as far as possible. The Minister has agreed to that, too. But what's gonna happen now that Lelystad gets involved? Then you're going to burden hundreds of thousands to possibly millions more people with nuisances, while they didn't choose to live near an airport. That is why we have always said: do not do that now. Schiphol can grow easily. In the short term, up to 600,000 flight movements. Leave the Betuweline debacle alone. The airlines don't feel like it. The neighbors don't feel like it. People up to Overijssel are suddenly involved in it, and they don't feel like it at all. I'd like a response. Now that the opening of Lelystad Airport has been postponed from 2018/2019 until 2020, compensation for growth at Schiphol Airport must be promised, otherwise Dutch aviation will be closed for three years. Then I come to economic growth, not least. We should always leave the church in the middle. We are for residents, but we are also there to guard the e.g. the Netherlands. Soon there will be a lot of economic growth and a lot of jobs crossing the border. How many are there? Has that even been investigated? I'm holding my heart. We have seen spillover effects in border areas, for example in the case of increases in excise duties. This is very serious. The PVV previously filed motions for growth in the short term up to 600,000 flight movements and later up to a maximum capacity of up to 800,000. We can do that with the current job use, but we haven't got that far yet. The planes will become bigger, more economical and quieter. Then the ticket tax. The flight tax that the Ministry of Finance is preparing with haste is, in our view, counter to the key points smart and sustainable, as well as to the economic growth that the government is pursuing. Experiences with a previous flight tax show that this measure is counterproductive and that air traffic flows to other airports. It kills Dutch airlines. Help those people, don't punish them. If you see what KLM has invested in more economical and quiet aircraft, you should let them do so. Reward them. Don't punish anyone, especially our own travelers. Now Dutch passengers are driving to Belgium and Germany Why environmental gain? It's cheaper to fly from there. In fact, I can book a flight with a KLM device cheaper abroad than in my own country. What are we doing? Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u3	I thought that's what I was talking about. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u4	We all want as many passengers as possible to have an alternative, for example the train or perhaps an electric car. What do you think about if you go by car and you have to refuel, pay excise duty and VAT? If you buy a train ticket, you pay VAT. On airline tickets you pay nothing about the kerosene, no VAT and no excise duty. Do you think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u5	No, but I'm also opposed to the other taxes and charges. You're asking the wrong person. Ask someone else later, but don't ask me. I'm trying to fight it, because we're pricing ourselves out of the market. In other countries, airlines receive state aid. Lufthansa near our neighbors receives hidden state aid for innovation. They're not getting anything here. KLM has to do everything by himself. They have to invest millions. That's what they do for the benefit of the neighbors. KLM doesn't want to get in trouble with residents at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u6	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u7	As far as possible, of course. You'll always have some trouble. When you go to live at a farm, you sometimes find a fly in the soup and you sometimes smell urine and stool. It's no different at an airport. Any inconvenience will always be there. Please desist from the ticket tax, I ask Madame and Mr. Secretary. This is what frustrates innovative companies, and of course that is not possible. I can't. I want to talk about the secondary closing business. What about the studies that should form the basis of the facts for policy choices on Schiphol, including the secondary closing trade? This measure may promote the possibility of serving the market properly in a time of scarcity. I'd like a response. What about disconnected handling, all investments in infrastructure that increase efficiency, such as additional gates aimed at fast handling? I'll leave out the professional terms. Then there is the Air France-KLM soap, Madam Secretary. I have already requested a debate on this subject twice before. I've been here twice before. We filed motions and even an amendment to buy back shares and thereby increase Dutch control, strength and power: at least a gold share or at least an equal number of shares in the holding company as the French have. 'Cause why are we gonna let them take everything away? We're wasting our crown jewels. The energy companies, we all waste. We save Unilever with 1.4 billion for a few bags of soup and 3,000 jobs, but this is 30,000 jobs directly at KLM, 60,000 at Schiphol Airport and indirectly hundreds of thousands of jobs. So I don't understand why we're not going to help our pride, our blue swans, our third largest private employer, our freedom and holiday fleet, our accessibility fleet. Why not? Why $1.4 billion for Unilever and why not KLM, which everyone here wants? We all stood for that; we were unanimous. It was the first time I've ever seen the Chamber unanimously. Where's our pride? We can be a bit patriotic, we can be patriots and also a bit chauvinists. The French do the same. We let ourselves eat the best primeval Dutch cheese of the cork-dry French baguette. They're laughing at us over there. So I'd like to see an increase in the share package. How are we gonna do that? Where's the cover coming from? I said at the time: from the sale of ABN. But what are the ministers going to do about it? What is the government going to do about it? What about the rescue plan, should nationalisation prove necessary, if necessary "temporary"? The predecessors of the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, that is to say, of aviation, said that this is not necessary. That's what's needed. We can't and Schiphol can't live without KLM. They're like Siamese twins. We want to return to the structure with two CEOs, one from Air France within the holding company and one from KLM. So our current president of KLM becomes the second CEO in France of the holding company and vice-president. Go take care of it! If necessary, we must send our King and Queen there, but just arrange it. We want past agreements to be established. I'm going to finish, Madam President. We want all the agreements of 2015 laid down in harsh guarantees. No further centralisation of KLM activities. No job transfers from the KLM headquarters in Amstelveen to Paris. Reconfirm that KLM holds independent financial management. We also want the SAK I and SAK II foundations and all agreements made between the Dutch State and Air France-KLM to be maintained. We want agreements that the growth of a loss-making Air France should not be at the expense of a profitable KLM. I'm afraid I've run out of time, Madam President. I hope that my colleagues will discuss the EIA and all other things. I've done my best to do this so far and pass on the stick. At least I hope I get reactions. Of course, I have motions in my hand on all points. That's how you know me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u8	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Graus. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u9	Mr. Chairman. "Public opinion has turned 180 degrees against aviation over the last 12 to 16 months. Flying stood for freedom, vacation, success and adventure, and when I read the reactions on social media, flying now stands for noise pollution, CO pollution and broken promises." This clear analysis comes from the chairman of the pilot union VNV. Aviation is in the process of losing its social support. He's hitting the limits of safety, health and climate. The solution is that not growth should be the goal, but accessibility. That is why GroenLinks, like the Environment and Infrastructure Council and the OVV, wants us to have an integral discussion about the aviation and accessibility of the Netherlands before we decide on the future of Schiphol and the five regional airports. What we need is a accessibility note that examines the connectivity of the Netherlands with all the modalities. The Aviation Note should be part of this, as should alternatives such as the train. Before we continue to speculate about growth, wherever it is, we must first define the conditions that aviation must meet. I come to five points. Security. The destructive opinion of the OVV on how the Ministry and Schiphol interpreted the safety recommendations is worthy of a separate debate. For now, I take their conclusion that growth is not possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u10	Mrs Kröger is talking about growth and a accessibility note, and that is very good. You are actually a fellow applicant for this debate. Of course, we are now discussing the main points. The VVD said today: as far as we are concerned, further growth as soon as possible. The question I would like to ask you is whether you think Schiphol should shrink. Because GroenLinks has not always been clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u11	What we have been clear about is that the political question now before us, which lies partly in front of the government agreement, is that this cabinet has decided that Schiphol can grow after 2021. One of the participants in this cabinet, the VVD, has indicated that they want to grow even faster. As far as we are concerned, this is really not the case and a pass must be made at Schiphol Airport and all regional airports. Next, we need to look at what the accessibility of the Netherlands will look like within the limits of the climate. In what way do we keep the Netherlands accessible, keep the connectivity and keep those important economic functions without increasing CO emissions, but also the emissions of ultra-fine dust and the other nuisance? That question needs to be answered properly. Then you can draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u12	This cabinet is indeed very clear: until 2021 no growth and then only if it can be cleaner and quieter. GroenLinks' election programme in Amsterdam says that Schiphol needs to shrink, reduce, because of the enormous impact you see. Do you agree or are you actually saying that Schiphol can just keep those 500,000 flight movements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u13	Mr Paternotte gave another explanation of the coalition agreement, namely that it should only be done if it is cleaner and quieter, but the coalition agreement does not say that CO emissions should be reduced. So the question remains how to get aviation within the limits of the climate. That is the challenge I believe we face. That is the challenge that I put to the Minister and the Secretary of State, and that needs to be scripted. Shrimp could be an opportunity for that. That's a question. But in any case, we would answer the political question that D66 has also answered in the coalition agreement with growth after 2021 differently, namely with no growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u15	I've been clear about safety. At the moment there is no growth possible. Then climate. We're going to be climate neutral by 2050, but not if the airline doesn't participate. The current ambitions of CORSIA are really far too low. Growth is not an option without a final plan for the climate effects. Sound nuisance. So far, with ever more ingenious models, a paper reality has been created, but people, they're sitting here, they're tired of it. We need to reduce the experience of the nuisance rather than calculate it away. Cheers. Ultraphine dust is the most dangerous air pollution. Extremely precise research is now under way, but an increase in emissions is not an option from a precautionary principle. And then the infrastructure on the ground and in the air has to be able to handle it. The crowds with planes and people in an overcrowded airspace and at an overcrowded airport are causing more and more problems. Does the Minister agree with me that these five points need to be resolved first? With regard to GroenLinks, the new accessibility note will identify how intra-European air traffic can largely be replaced by trains. This saves unnecessary flights and keeps Schiphol free for intercontinental destinations. We look forward to the international train agenda which the Secretary of State also draws up at my request. We would like to see an update of the SME study for Schiphol, which has already been shared with the Chamber, including a scenario in which trains take over part of European air traffic. Is the Minister prepared to do this? As far as we are concerned, part of the accessibility note is also a so-called plan EIA. In its opinion on the Mer Lelystad project, the Commission is in favour of the M.e.r. very clear: a plan-MAK that maps all environmental impacts well, including climate, health and alternatives, is currently missing. Is the Minister prepared to draw up a plan for air transport in the Netherlands? Then, of course, we need the means to steer the aviation we want, with a fair price for flying. We would like to hear from the Minister of Finance his ideas on the ticket tax, additional charges for noisy and polluting aircraft and the same VAT on train tickets as on airline tickets. We need to distribute the scarce slots fairly and efficiently. The route with the greatest social importance and the aircraft with the lowest environmental impact must be given priority. Can the Minister share with the Chamber the possibilities for this? And then Lelystad Airport. The Minister has been very clear: low-fly routes are exceptional and should be terminated as soon as possible. But how can the Minister call low-fly routes exceptional if the starting point of Lelystad Airport was that traffic should not interfere with Schiphol traffic and should therefore remain below it? When were the Minister and the Ministry first aware that there would be long-term low-flying at the connecting routes? And why hasn't the Chamber been informed about this before? The Minister indicated that ending the low-fly routes is a hard peripheral condition for the reclassification of airspace. Where is this recorded? And can the Minister with the Chamber share an analysis of LVNL that this is actually possible? And what does the Minister say to people around Wezep, Kampen and Zwolle, where low flying is going to continue, even after the reclassification of airspace? The growth of Lelystad Airport is highly uncertain and the airport probably never comes out of the cost. In response to motions and various parliamentary questions, very brief information has come about the business case. The question is, of course, what do those 10,000 flights at Lelystad really get? Why persevere with a loss-making airport at such high social and political costs? Is it true that the placement of noisy and night flights could mean one flight to Lelystad a multiple of flights at Schiphol Airport? And is Lelystad meant to be a kind of flywheel for faster growth on Schiphol? The current SMEA is not included: the low flight routes, health, nature, climate, recreation, but also, for example, the fact that recent parliamentary questions from me showed that some wind farms are now getting smaller wind turbines. GroenLinks really wants a detailed SMEA, and also a business case, in which these effects are taken into account. Could the Minister have these drawn up and share with the Chamber as soon as possible? Finally. Lelystad is a prestige project; not to win prestige, because all the shine is long gone, but to limit loss of face. The solution is really not to push through now. Let us take the loss of Lelystad and, as both the OVV and the Rli recommend, first have an integral discussion about the aviation and accessibility of the Netherlands before we decide on the future of Schiphol or one of the regional airports. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u16	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party. He's carrying a school bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u17	Mr President, I have a present for the Minister for Infrastructure. Mr. Chairman. The aviation debate: the arguments involved, the starting points known. Let me try another way, a personal one, and with a gift. Aviation is in my blood, not only literally because of the ultra-fine dust but also figuratively. My very first wish profession, that's how the story goes in my family, wasn't fireman, dike builder or visa yeast. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's not a pilot, it's a piece of cake. So before I could speak properly, I wanted to go all the way up. In my early years, I had over 50 model planes hanging in my bedroom. I read the air and space magazine Avia, about the last Super Connies, the first 747s, the DC-9, the expansion of Schiphol. A child of the 1970s, when aviation was still an unspoken hero of progress. Let's just park that thought. Mr. Chairman. This year the House of Representatives will for the first time use the so-called broad concept of prosperity. Instead of expressing our prosperity in one figure, the broad concept of prosperity is based on quality of life for humans and animals, expressed in a dashboard of indicators. The unique thing is that this not only gives a snapshot of the here and now but also of the there and later. In preparation for this, the book The Vulnerable Prosperity of the Netherlands 1850-2050 was published. Before you think, "why does that man tell you all that?': That's what I'm getting at. It's a fantastic crossover of the century from my father of Geert Mak and Capital in the 21st century of Piketty. The book describes the broad concept of prosperity, which we are going to use, for 1850, 1910, 1970 and 2015 on the basis of the data of those times. It is fascinating to read how, for example, we have successfully organised an energy transition three times. At the same time, it is fascinating to read that transitions are always stopped for as long as possible by existing interests and always go much faster when there is the following. One. Tax measures and legislation enforce it. Two. There are alternatives. And three. Society is ready, because it is a hard necessity. That is exactly where we are now in the aviation debate. After the Second World War, aviation had to be built up with man and power. Accelerators included landing rights issues, no excise duty on kerosene, no VAT on tickets, easy building regulations and tax measures. The sector has become powerful. So powerful, they managed to stay out of the Paris climate agreements. Mighty, because they've been able to control everything for years and allowed the responsible ministry to watch and facilitate. And so powerful, that in 2018 they can ship-hole citizens, peasants and outsiders to their heart's content, if necessary under the guise of "seeking the balance," as top man Elbers so temptingly said in Buitenhof. Mr. Chairman. That balance has been lost for years. And why? Increasing CO emissions from aviation make meeting climate targets impossible. The Security Research Council felt called on twice to say that security is always subordinated to growth. Residents come together in rebellion on an unprecedented scale. The increasing noise is transformed away with transparent math tricks and useful definitions. Enforcement is made impossible with an inimitable enforcement vacuum. The amount of ultra-fine dust and nitrogen will have a major impact on the air quality and health of the residents. Hundreds of thousands of geese have been gassed around Schiphol in recent years, without helping. Mr. Chairman. Last year, the Chamber adopted our motion to broaden the definition of "obstacle." After all, "Hinder" is no longer the same as "sound" for a long time. The Court recognises this now, so the impact of aviation on climate, on quality of life for humans and animals and on safety must be fully taken into account in decision-making. Does the Minister dare to have her beautiful E.R. Lelystad tested against European directives? If it's okay, of course it is. I'd like a response. One thing has become clear: it can no longer be the case that the profit on noise automatically leads to more flights. There are now more harsh criteria that need to be looked at. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. So the climate, the safety and the quality of the environment determine the limits of aviation in the Netherlands, and not the aviation sector. It's time for a new transition. All ingredients are present: hard need, alternatives, tax measures and legislation, and a tilting in society. Short distances are now travelled by train instead of by plane. "Fly wisely, take the train" is the new credo. Now that interest rates are historically low, the Minister can invest large-scale in European train connections. Is she prepared to do this together with the Minister of Finance, after all, he is not sitting here making a plan of action for nothing? Excise duties apply to kerosene and apply a flight tax; after all, we no longer need the fiscal gifts from the last century. We would like to hear whether the Minister for Finance agrees with us on this point. That's how the whole system gets kicked. At present, we can only conclude that we must stick to the limit of 500,000 flight movements at Schiphol Airport, because of the safety and quality of the environment. Code red! But we also know that because of the climate, this number has to be reduced gradually. Up to 300,000 flight movements in 2030 would solve a lot of problems at once. Expanding Lelystad Airport is of course no longer necessary in this scenario. Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the initial question: is aviation still the unspoken hero of progress? We say that's not true anymore, and for some time now. Society also gets that: the sky became the limit. As far as we are concerned, policy decisions with an impact as large as those of aviation will now be assessed in advance on the basis of the broad concept of prosperity. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Whatever was once a good idea doesn't have to be later. If there's anything history teaches us, it is. Fortunately, history has shown that there is a way out, and society is ready. We look forward to the Minister's response. I'd like to give her something through the messenger. Let me explain. It's a small incentive. It is a hashtag and it reads: #300k2030. For example, the Minister knows what she should come up with with the number of flight movements in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u18	Thank you. Will you take your suitcase with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u19	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u20	I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP Group. Thank you very much, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have often debated the future of aviation in the Netherlands in recent months. These debates are constantly followed by many people from action committees, residents' associations and residents of different provinces. They're sitting here in the public gallery today, too. I would therefore like to welcome them. The LBBL, which was launched today, presented a petition to the Permanent Chambers Committee earlier today. We underline and support all the points of the petition and ask the Minister to respond, to begin with. Mr. Chairman. Schiphol hole bursts out of its joints. Unbridled growth has virtually achieved the maximum number of flight movements of 500,000 last year. 20% of these movements are carried out by low-cost carriers and state-supported Middle East carriers; companies that hardly contribute to employment and the economy here in the Netherlands. In fact, they create an uneven playing field and push down the working conditions of workers here in the Netherlands. The unfair competition and the growth of Schiphol have led to a huge increase in the workload of, for example, baggage dealers, ground stewardesses and security guards. The NLR also confirms this in the Integrated Safety Analysis Schiphol and states that safety on the ground cannot be left to the sector. Over the last few weeks, baggage and passenger dealers have stopped working for less pressure, less tight schedules and more permanent jobs. You're right. The number of passengers at Schiphol Airport increased by over 50% between 2009 and 2016. The number of workers in the service, including those traders, but 12%. The number of security guards has even decreased by 25%. Unbelievable. Are these rulers going to ensure that the Schiphol Group provides sufficient well-trained staff with a certain contract? Because this affects safety and cannot be dismissed as working conditions alone. Then about the operating conditions of pilots. I have already mentioned several studies commissioned by the European Commission, which show that European pilots flying on the basis of false self-employment and pay-to-fly have a much worse safety experience than other pilots. Social abuses can therefore directly affect flight safety. That's gotta stop. Is the Minister prepared to address these social abuses at the next meeting of the Transport Council and call on the European Commission to come up with a European approach where this affects flight safety? Further on safety at Schiphol Airport, Chairman. While the sector is lobbying for growth opportunities, the Security Research Council is calling again. The Ministry and Schiphol claim wrongly that the OVV report on flight safety at Schiphol Airport does not give any signals that flight safety has reached its limits. However, the Research Council reiterated that: 1. safety plays a subordinate role in the discussion on possible growth at Schiphol; 2. there must be fundamentally different cooperation in order to ensure safety; 3. The Ministry has no idea of the overall level of safety of air traffic at and around Schiphol Airport. That scares me. I hope that scares these ministers too. I wonder what they are going to do with the criticism that the Council has made and how they are going to ensure that safety is no longer subordinate when considering the future of Schiphol. Mr. Chairman. The SP has called for more attention to be paid to freight traffic at Schiphol Airport. Because the minister did not direct and Schiphol has lapped the selectivity policy, jobs are disappearing at Schiphol Airport and roof tiles are flying from roofs in Maastricht. On 14 February, the airlines at Schiphol Airport agreed to a local rule. What about the implementation of this local rule? Is the local rule introduced for the coming winter season and, if not, what are the consequences? I would like a response from the Minister of IenW. Mr. Chairman. The expansion of airport Lelystad was, is and remains a very bad plan. I don't just think that's happy. Also many entrepreneurs and residents of different provinces find this. On 5 March I spoke to entrepreneurs at airport Teuge, I spoke to entrepreneurs and residents in the beautiful Hoenderloo and in Stadshagen in Zwolle. They are all concerned and angry about the way things are going: low-flying routes on rest and nature areas, emissions of particulate matter and ultra-fine dust, and noise. All for holiday flights to southern Europe. In doing so, we are cutting back on our domestic tourism and disappearing more jobs than there are. The only one we're doing a favor with this ship's hole and push-through is Schiphol itself. Because by transferring evening and night flights to Lelystad, tens of thousands of flight movements can be added at Schiphol Airport and the Schiphol Group and the aviation lobby can celebrate. But this party is a nightmare for the climate, nature and the neighbors. I want firm assurances from this minister that she's not gonna let this nightmare happen. Does she agree with us that a specific number of flight movements should remain the basis for steering and maintaining? Because that maintenance hasn't happened at Schiphol Airport for years. The appointments made are hardly worth anything. Residents from Uithoorn, Aalsmeer and Amstelveen know all about it, as the agreement that residential cores around Schiphol would be relieved as much as possible is not maintained. That is why I want assurances from the Minister that she will be committed to good enforcement. As regards the update of the EIA, previous colleagues, Mrs Kröger and Mr Van Raan, have already said a few things. I would like to join in that. Is the Minister prepared to re-examine the EIA of Lelystad and all other airports with their overall environmental impacts, including ultra-fine dust, particulate matter and CO emissions above 900 metres? After all, it doesn't disappear. Then there's just CO2 emissions. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. The only future for aviation in the Netherlands is an aviation that is in balance with man, environment and climate. That's why the SP wants a stop on the unbridled growth of Schiphol. For the time being, 500,000 stays 500,000. The ceilings for other airports also stand and we blow off the developments around Lelystad Airport. In addition, the SP wants tough agreements to be made within the existing space, so that real jobs are created at Schiphol Airport, and that we fight unfair competition and insecure contracts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u22	Thank you. Let me now give the floor... Oh, Mr Remco Dijkstra has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u23	Mr President, I waited for Mr Laçin to finish. He talked in his last sentences about real jobs at Schiphol, but the jobs at cargo are also real jobs, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u24	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u25	That's it. If you find that real jobs, why do you even argue for a stop to the growth of aviation, when you can know that this is at the expense of jobs in the cargo, which you will then stand for on the barricades again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u26	No, Mr Dijkstra sketches the reverse world here. He's good at that. We know that. What is currently costing jobs at Schiphol Airport is that the government, the cabinet, also under the leadership of your party, has not taken charge. That's why all those local carriers and Middle East carriers were just brought in. 20% of the flight movements at Schiphol Airport are carried out by those carriers. That's at the expense of the cargo. For this reason, the SP calls for the selectivity policy to be pursued and the cargo, the freight flights, to be given more room within the existing frameworks, so that those jobs, which, thanks to your party, are now disappearing, remain correct. That's the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u27	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u28	Mr. Chairman. Prosperity brings us many good things, but that prosperity does not happen by chance. They're working hard for that. Companies from the Netherlands trade and export all over the world and the whole world wants to act with us. One of the ways in which this prosperity is enjoyed is by us getting on the plane more and more often. Often for business flights, often for holidays with partner and children. But there are also disadvantages to prosperity. Many view aviation as annoying in terms of noise, for example night flights, and see the negative impact on the environment. Others see aviation as an increasingly important infrastructure, which is necessary for doing business and bread on the shelf. They see that flight holidays are also accessible for the large group and not only for the elite. Mr. Chairman. I will mention a number of points that are important for the CDA. We'll start with Lelystad Airport. The CDA has always said in the Lelystad Airport file that it is the outcome of the EIA and the Commission's opinion on the EIA. will weigh heavily. Now the Commission for the m.e.r. has made a positive assessment of the completeness and quality of the EIA, this is an important point for us. It'll be careful. We strongly ask the Minister what she is going to do with the opinions and recommendations that the Commission has for the m.e.r. In its findings. Are these all being taken over? This includes, for example, the careful setting up of a programme of requirements for the monitoring programme, in particular those of the first 10,000 flights involving residents and central governments. This is necessary in order to be able to adjust and respond to improvements in the interim. Mr. President, then to Schiphol. Deal's a deal. Schiphol is already at the limit of 500,000 there, and according to the Alders agreement, it is only after 2020 that Schiphol is allowed to grow again. There's a signature from the Empire underneath; we also stand for that signature. Only after 2020 is the question of how responsible Schiphol can continue to grow. There's gonna be a new Aviation Note, looking ahead to 2040. That note will have to outline the frameworks for the three P's "People, Planet and Profit" with all possible new innovations and mobility. The CDA Group is well aware that the opening of Lelystad can take place later than planned. This was a legitimate decision by the Minister. However, we believe that the postponement of Lelystad is no reason to interfere with the Alders agreement. We want to be a reliable government: so until 2020, 500,000. The Alders agreement of 2008 also established that Schiphol could grow after 2020. I think the PvdA was there, too. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u29	I think so too, but I would like to ask Mr Amhaouch a different question. I have seen a call from the VVD this afternoon, saying that we must already allow more flights at Schiphol Airport. What does the CDA think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u30	The VVD still has to come to explain all this nicely. If I interpret it as it is exactly on NOW.nl, it is indeed: growth. There's no timing. So I would also like to know the timing of the VVD. If that is after 2020, we are indeed in line with the coalition agreement. If it's before 2020, we'll disagree. For us as CDA, it is important that we use the next two and a half years well to put the operational capacity in order and make the improvements needed to grow Schiphol. Think of putting security, handling, customs and infrastructure in order. Once that has been done, we can grow responsibly, in a sustainable way, after 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u31	I understand from Mr Amhaouch's story that there are still a number of conditions: planet, profit, and all kinds of things to be involved in before you can make that decision. So I hear Mr Amhaouch say two things: yes, we are going to continue to grow, but the CDA does set a few conditions. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u32	Mr. Chairman. What I'm saying is that in the Airline Paper 2020-2040, that's a look-through of more than 20 years of flying -- you have to make it clear how, for example, you're going to fly more sustainably and what coordination you're going to do. That doesn't mean you have to have implemented everything you want to shut down in 20 years after 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u33	I was also triggered by the CDA with the three P's. For me, people is one of the most important, more important than profit in any case. I would like to hear from the CDA spokesman how he looks at the fine dust problem. If you look at the effects of particulate matter on the RIVM website, fine dust appears to have a lot of implications for residents and neighbors of airports. How's the CDA in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u34	Madame takes out one P: people. Of course people are important, but they're all important. There's got to be a balance. Everyone wants to earn their living and an airport is important. Everyone wants to be able to live healthy. The same goes for people with children. The people component is therefore important. We also want to pass on our planet; the stewardship. Fine dust is a very wide-ranging discussion that is being held throughout the country. This applies to aviation and to many other matters. The Commission, too, for the m.e.r. in its report referred to a number of simulations that have been done; so no measurements but simulations. It shows that it's no different than in other places. That is what the Commission's report says for the m.e.r.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u35	The CDA says: until 2020, our signature is on the off-growing side; but then there are opportunities and then we want to guarantee the three Ps. Let me ask you again: to what extent does the CDA include the effects? You live a year shorter if you live at an airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u36	We have in the government agreement that we can grow after 2020 through the 50/50 rule: 50% environmental gains and 50% growth. That's what we call sustainable growth. That's where Lelystad comes in. When the airspace is immediately reorganised and flown higher, that's the most important thing, because people are worried about the low-flying................................................................................................................ Fine dust is one of the components that you take with you in the total picture, just like sound, that you also take with you. You take so many aspects. One year less life, as you say, is of course a serious component that you have to take with you. But in all the files, those components are valid, not just for aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u37	Just going through the fine dust problem, the particulates. Does Mr Amhaouch agree with us that it doesn't really matter if there are paying passengers or non-paying passengers? In other words, when determining nuisance, certainly the broad concept of nuisance, you really have to count all aircraft movements and not just the General Aviation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u38	That's very important. I will come back to that in a moment. The coalition agreement states that we must let go of the number of flight movements and concentrate more on the nuisance. If Mr Van Raan means that, we are indeed building incentives in that airline to innovate. Then we look not only at the number of flights, but also at their nuisances, in the context of environmental pollution and in the context of noise. If we can agree to this and let go of the number of flight movements, we have to take the total amount of nuisance and not the number of flights, whether it is leisure, a business flight or a helicopter. But then you have to let go of the number of moves. The question again is whether Mr Van Raan too will let go of the number of movements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u39	Well, that's good news. This means that we count the nuisance of all aircraft movements. I understand that Mr Amhaouch of the CDA would like to release that figure of 500 000.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u40	"Good news" it's called. I believe that the Animal Party will also release the number of flight movements and, together with the rest of the Chamber, will look at the number of movements that we can achieve taking into account all kinds of aspects of nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u41	Over there. Just now, my colleague Van Brenk and I were talking about particulate matter. The type of fine dust like this around airports is ultra-fine dust. That's not in the E.R. right now. It is currently being investigated by the RIVM, but in fact all medical scientists agree that this is the most dangerous type of particulate matter with the greatest health damage. Does Mr Amhaouch agree with GroenLinks that, because it is something so fragile that even in unborn children the brain is affected, you should apply a precautionary principle with regard to ultra-fine dust and that you should not allow emissions to grow until it is completely clear what the effects are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u42	I think I said what I said about that. I said that fine dust is one of the aspects that you have to take with you, of course. Fine dust is not just an issue in aviation. Fine dust is an issue in several areas. We have also talked about particulate matter in intensive livestock farming and in farms. So you have to take that in its entirety. As you say, it is being investigated. Let's wait and see. If the momentum is there, we need to intervene, but we're not there yet. Then you're getting ahead of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u43	It is a fact that ultra-fine dust is really something other than fine dust in, for example, intensive livestock farming such as Mr Amhaouch, which has exceptionally high concentrations around airports, has a major impact on unborn children among others. That is already clear, but Mr Amhaouch says that we should not apply a precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u44	We don't have to deal with this differently than we do with other files.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u46	Mr. Chairman. I told you, there's work to be done. We still have two and a half years to put some things in order at Schiphol. The OVV has issued a report to which I believe the Minister has already responded. I think she already said she embraces the recommendations. Security's number one and must remain number one. We've been seeing some chaos lately at Schiphol. These include such things as peak taxes, handling capacity, customs, parking, public transport. I am not talking about the power outage there, because we are waiting for TNO's report first. Mr. Chairman. Flying must be more sustainable. We want real work to be done on biokerosin. That's what the coalition agreement says. How is the Minister actually going to realize that? There is very limited biokerosin available. What does the roadmap look like to have biokerosin at least available in all EU countries? Indeed, for short distances the train can be a good alternative. 6 million people fly to Paris and London every year, about 115,000 people a week. My cigar box calculation shows that these are about twenty long trains a day extra on the already busy track. How is the Ministry going to make a breakthrough? How is it going to make this happen? How much time do you need to offer the train as a serious alternative based on travel time, comfort and price? Will this be part of the Aviation Paper 2020-2040? I'd like to know about the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u47	I already mentioned it in my term: KLM is one of the leading world leaders when it comes to biokerosin and buying quieter and more economical aircraft. They're really willing to do something to reduce the nuisance for residents. Now Mr Amhaouch is of the party that also wants to introduce the ticket tax, the flight tax as it is called. That, of course, removes a lot of innovation. It's interfering with the airlines. Does Mr Amhaouch agree with me that we should reward and not punish an airline like KLM and that we should not punish passengers with a ticket tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u48	KLM is doing well with biokerosin, but they also indicate that there is a shortage. There is also a shortage worldwide. One of the low-hanging fruits, low-hanging fruit, is the application of biokerosin. This can reduce CO emissions to 50%. We must therefore commit ourselves to this and we must support companies that are of good will. Then I'll get to the ticket tax. It is in the coalition agreement. That's been quite a negotiation. We think it is important that it is first examined at European level. We know the old ticket tax. Mr Graus and I are both from Limburg. What's happening? If you introduce that ticket tax nationally, everyone will go to Weeze, Düsseldorf, Cologne, Dortmund or Liège. You don't want to, because then you don't have the effect. So if we go to a ticket tax, let's do it Europeanly. If we are going to do it nationally, we need to think very carefully about where that money is going and what its effect is. If we're just going to introduce a ticket tax to tax it and if we're not gonna do anything useful for aviation, we're gonna have to scratch ourselves behind the ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u49	We, Mr Amhaouch and I, are indeed countrymen. We come from a province with a lot of kilometers border and we have experienced the leaking effects there. I don't see it happening that these two rulers, no matter how much fun and no matter how much I like them, are going to make a commitment. So are you prepared to make a motion with me while you are at my side? Why don't we let the Chamber make a ruling on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u50	Where necessary, I would like to hang out with Mr Graus. Well, then it's got to make sense. I think the coalition agreement is very clear about the ticket tax. Let's get the minister to do it first and not get ahead of himself. That doesn't change the fact that we can always sign fine motions together, Mr. Graus. I'm moving on to sustainability. In order to fly sustainably, innovations are needed. It is best to stimulate innovation and sustainability with root-and-stick policies. Would the Minister like to reflect on that? How does she see the root and how does she see the stick? The CDA believes in the power of innovation. Many thousands of SMEs show this on a daily basis. Mr. Chairman. From quantity to quality. To make the battle from quantity to quality, strong direction and cooperation is needed for all major airports in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is just a stamp in that respect. That is why we want overarching and integrated direction that provides smart coordination over Schiphol, Lelystad, Rotterdam, Eindhoven, Eelde and Maastricht. Is the Minister prepared to engage with these airports? The coalition agreement says we're going to focus on interference control rather than on the number of flight movements. As a CDA, we think this is a good starting point; the Party for Animals, too, I have just heard. This does more justice to the experience of stakeholders and local residents and gives the sector the space and incentives to come up with innovative solutions. The CDA likes to see how that's going to be operationalized. How is the Minister going to work out this phrase from the coalition agreement? Then there's the governance structure. We have had a very good round table on the new governance structure for aviation. Indeed, the functioning of the Schiphol Environment Council (ORS) must be kept under review. The Alders table needs to be evaluated. We need to consider in detail how we intend to determine the future decision-making on aviation. We do have a feeling for the idea of Nature and the North Holland Environment Federation of a SER-like approach with independent experts, scientists and representatives, such as the railways. It is a platform for discussion on national aviation. That group advises the cabinet. In the same round table, through the Alderman of Aalsmeer, a signal came from municipalities around airports: let us make our own decision on living, working and recreation. He literally said: we have the burden of an airport and we know that we also owe a lot to it, but don't lock up an entire municipality because nothing can be built anymore, we can't build a business anymore and we can't implement recreation ourselves. That voice should also be included in the new governance structure. It needs to be taken. Give the municipalities not only the burdens, but also the space to do something in return. Finally, I'm joining the KLM. The KLM must remain a strong player. Recently, the position of the KLM within Air France-KLM has been discussed again. The central question for the CDA is how we safeguard the interests of the KLM. How does the Minister ensure that a personnel issue at Air France does not drain the KLM? There were agreements made at the time of the merger. Those agreements should be re-established and properly anchored. That brings peace and clarity. What informal and formal influence and instruments does the Minister have for this? Finally, Mr President. The whole aviation policy that we are discussing today, but which we also discussed earlier, has to do with support. It is very important that, in the new governance structure and how we deal with each other in this Chamber, we ensure that there is a good balance between people, profit and planet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u51	Mr Amhaouch is right: we insist that we release the numbers; we go to 300,000 and Mr Amhouach wants more. There's one thing I want to know if I understand correctly. Mr Amhaouch says that security is the most important thing. The OVV report clearly states: follow all recommendations. Indirectly and directly, this includes reclassification of airspace. Before deciding on the extension of aviation, there is a need to redistribute it, so that cannot be done before 2023. But I also hear Mr Amhaouch say that we can talk about growth again in 2020. I can't connect the two of them. Perhaps Mr Amhaouch can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u52	I'll make an effort to help. The OVV makes a whole range of recommendations on security. There too, we should not trivialise security, because the OVV has produced a good report. It is low-hanging fruit in safety issues: operational, on the lanes, track switches. There are also structural improvements that you are indeed taking into account the reclassification as it grows immediately. The reclassification is one thing. That's what the CDA has said a few times in an AO Aviation. There have been several Cabinets that haven't done anything about it. We insist on the current government that the airspace reclassification for 2023 is in order. In the run-up to Lelystad and to the Aviation Note, it is also important that we do have a number of pin strokes on the main lines of airspace reclassification, which indicate what it will look like in the near future. Mr Bruins (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Bruins for his excellent report. Then we can also take this into account in the 2020-2040 future plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u53	I'm just trying to figure out whether the CDA will accept the OVV recommendations or not. Mr Amhaouch actually says that the reclassification of the airspace of 2023 is somehow not part of the recommendations. I see him nodding, so maybe that's a wrong assumption from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u54	If you read the OVV report correctly, Mr. Van Raan, you will see that they do not say: you can grow so much before you have to redo the airspace, or vice versa. They don't make that hard-ass clutch. They do say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u55	Maybe you could finish your question first, Mr. Van Raan? Is that what you meant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u56	Yes, that's good, Mr. Chairman. In other words, the CDA says to any OVV advice, but that's for the CDA that we can talk about growth by 2020. Am I getting it together that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u57	That's very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u58	Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u59	With the condition we have just mentioned, namely that there will be work to be done in the operation at Schiphol for the next two and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u60	I have a question for Mr Amhaouch on enforcement. I hear Mr Amhaouch saying that we have to let go of numbers of flight movements and look at noise in the broad sense of the word. But we see, for example, at Schiphol Airport that the agreements on noise have been broken for three years now and that they are not being enforced. We also put oral questions to this Minister some time ago. As regards Lelystad, the 10,000 flights for the first few years are not included in the airport decision. So that is not something we can maintain either. We are currently sending out concrete numbers, and enforcement is already a very big problem. We've seen that on several levels. If we are going to let go of the concrete on which we can steer, and look at noise, how does Mr Amhaouch see us maintaining that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u61	In my view, the Minister made it quite clear a while back during Question Time or during a 30-member debate, and I do not know exactly how she maintains it, and not that she does not maintain it. She is pro-actively maintaining the new directives that are to come. The Commission, too, for the m.e.r. Says in her opinion: you have the formal measuring points at the end of the track, but make sure that you put extra measuring points in the period of those 10,000 flights, with input from the residents, so that you can also tell where the bottlenecks are in that intermediate period. If there are, you'll have to adjust to that. We are now having a lot of discussion about noise that may not be there right now. Then it's obvious. That also gives rest to the inhabitants. So whether it's included in an airport decision, as you're saying, or not, it's important to me that in those 10,000 flights, which we're gonna spread out in three to four years' time, we're gonna add some extra points, so we can't measure it, but we're gonna measure what the effects are, and we're gonna be able to adjust it if we're gonna rearrange the airspace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u62	I am glad to hear that Mr Amhaouch would prefer to measure rather than calculate. I think that's progress, because this cabinet constantly steers on calculation and actually leaves measurements. But the supplementary question, to which I do not hear a specific answer from Mr Amhaouch, is how we are going to maintain it for all those people who are currently getting over all those planes, including the people sitting here in the gallery. We can't maintain it already. We're not doing that already. You are talking about anticipating enforcement, but the new system of standards and enforcement is not there, and noise has not been maintained for three years. We have had a debate on this. So to turn that around, I think it's a little strange. There hasn't been any enforcement in three years. There have been violations for three years, and we are not maintaining them. So how are we going to maintain, without laying down concrete numbers, giving all these people their rest and ensuring that agreements we make are kept?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u63	First of all, let me say something about that point of calculation and measurement. If you're gonna make a new airport, you don't have an airport yet. That makes sense. Then you're going to calculate a number of things. There's nothing wrong with that. It's not either calculating or measuring. You can do both. Depending on the stage you're in, you're going to calculate or measure. As far as Lelystad is concerned, a number of cases have been calculated in the EIA. And now it has been said: in the interim phase we are also going to measure a number of things in concrete terms. That's one. There has been talk of maintaining, anticipating enforcement. The minister didn't say she didn't maintain at all. Maybe she'll be able to answer that herself later. It hasn't been said that the ILT doesn't maintain, has it? Only in a certain situation they do not maintain. So that is a conscious choice in that situation. You can laugh at that, but it's a conscious choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u64	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The situation around Schiphol and Lelystad poses us as political dilemmas. We want jobs in the Netherlands, we want to be able to go on vacation easily and quickly and at the same time we want to be sure that we can live safely and quietly and we want a world for our children that is not devastated by environmental pollution. It is therefore a dilemma between jobs and connection with the rest of the world and, on the other hand, safe, clean and peaceful living. We do not do justice to that dilemma by talking in simplism and illusions. We can only do justice to it by looking for the nuance, drawing the right lessons from the past few years and, above all, making the right plans for the coming years. That is why this debate and the forthcoming debates on the Aviation Paper are really very important. It is about the future of the Netherlands, about economic growth but also about a sustainable world, which we also want. In this debate, I would like to talk about three areas: capacity, safety and quality. To be sure that you can live safely, cleanly and quietly means that Schiphol can't grow unbiased. So the government has to stick to its commitments. So the current 500,000 flight movements remain in place until 2021. This afternoon, at least, our group was shocked by the VVD's attitude, which seems to overstep the coalition agreement. I would like a reaction from the cabinet, because it is precisely a government that keeps to agreements that is of the utmost importance to regain some support for aviation in the Netherlands. To be sure that you can live in a clean environment means that we need to look for growth in clean and quiet flights and to ward off noisy and dirty planes. It is incomprehensible that the polluter does not pay when it comes to flying. What about the intention in the coalition agreement to introduce an additional tax on noisy and dirty flights? I'd like a response. Making sure that you can live safely and quietly also means for Lelystad that the airspace must be in order first. Therefore, no intermediate low flight routes, but first, before it can be decided in the Chamber to extend Lelystad airport, a reclassification of the airspace, with less nuisance for residents and clarity about the flight routes. It has been said before, but we need to see aviation much wider. We need to talk about accessibility. We need to look at how we shape mobility when we look at Europe. How is it that rail travel to European cities is still taking so long? Should we not invest in rail links with European cities such as Paris, London, Berlin and perhaps Rome and Barcelona? Is the Minister, is the Cabinet prepared to look at the railroad in the solution for Schiphol? One example is a collaboration between Schiphol, KLM, NS and ProRail for less short-haul flights and an incentive for train traffic to those destinations through government support. Is the Minister prepared to table these parties to work on a truly sustainable alternative? The Secretary of State is already working on an international train agenda, but it would be worth putting together these parties, of rail and aviation, on the table. Up to 500 kilometers the train can be a great alternative. This allows more room for more high-quality long-distance flights. Of course, I have said it before, but the train must be attractive in terms of price, logistics and time. The OVV report shows that the increase in the number of flights affects flight safety. Security must be on one. It can't be that every incident is on its own. "In order" is not enough. "Safety first" must be the motto. Is the Minister going for a sufficient or undisputed good in terms of security? And how is she going to shape that? As far as the Labour Party is concerned, public concerns in the Netherlands about the capacity and safety of aviation mean that Schiphol, Lelystad, Rotterdam and Eindhoven must remain in public hands. They are now, but as far as we are concerned, this must also be the case in the future. Can the Cabinet undertake to do this? I'd like a response. Quality of work is of great importance, including in the aviation sector. Cabin crews and pilots from Ryanair, among others, the SP said that they are scandalously treated by their employer, not in Ireland, but here in the Netherlands. In addition to the fact that this is bad for Ryanair's staff, KLM and other decent airlines are also the victims of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u66	When I first started as a PVV member, I was immediately threatened, like many PVV's. I wasn't allowed to travel by train anymore, because it wasn't responsible for me. I can fly because those passengers are better controlled. Everyone is running trains here, but I don't dare get on a train anymore as a PVV'er. If you're in there with some of those confused idiots, you're really caught, because there's no railroad cops anymore. My question is: what is going to happen to make rail traffic safer? In the future, with the number of confused people growing day by day, it will all be much worse on the train. What will the PvdA do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u67	That is a fair question from Mr Graus. I just wanted to separate two things. In my opinion, the threats of PVV-Room members are widely rejected. We must ensure in every way that Mr Graus and his colleagues can do their job normally, without any threat whatsoever. The railroad is about social security. We have had debates on this in the Chamber before. We need to make sure there's enough track police. Other providers, like the NS, must also ensure that social security is in order on the train, both for passengers and for the people working on the railways. So I understand Mr Graus' concern. The first concern is that we all strongly reject it. We need to fight threats in every possible way. Furthermore, safety on the track is a long discussion, I think. In particular, I believe that we should continue to invest not only in a good rail network, but above all in social security on trains, both for passengers and the people working on the train. At the moment, the drop-out on baggage handling is high. Security and the Marshal's Office have a huge workload. Security guards can ask if they can go to the bathroom and baggage dealers get physical complaints due to the heavy work they have to do. I think this is very undesirable. How does the Minister of Finance, as shareholder, view this? Does he think that Schiphol should go for the quality of employment, where the position of workers is also crucial? In what way can the Minister, also as a shareholder, discuss this with the Schiphol Group? Because the race to the bottom is clearly visible in aviation employment. This must be stopped and a European approach must therefore be found here, independently of a Dutch approach. Is the Minister prepared to set this up at European level, for example when it comes to addressing Ryanair? We can do that here in the Netherlands, but we must do that mainly in a European context. Then I'll go into KLM and Air France. It is very important for us to follow this discussion closely. KLM is incredibly important for the Netherlands. We ask the cabinet to keep in close contact with the French colleagues. How's it going? Can this cabinet draw up different scenarios in case things may not go well in France? What are the consequences for KLM? What are the consequences for KLM's vital importance for the Dutch economy? I'd like a response. Finally. Because of the many residents with initiatives, petitions and actions, it is clear that aviation in the Netherlands no longer has the unbiased support of many Dutch people. The nuisance is too great for many residents. The unreliableness of decision-making is too great, such as the errors in the EIA. All this leads to loss of support. How is the cabinet going to regain the support of all these residents?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u69	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon we had the National Residents' Council visiting the State Passage, with very reasonable conditions: reduction of nuisance, reduction of CO emissions, fair taxing and more investment in long-distance train connections. Mr. Chairman. More and more flying is not a structural solution. Aviation is growing more rapidly than the environmental gains made in the sector. This growth is certainly not a law of nature that just happens to us, but a choice. Alternatives such as fast trains have often been mentioned today. Flying must become more expensive, as included in the coalition agreement. Contaminated consumption must be taxed more fairly. The Christian Union wants sustainable aviation within responsible environmental limits. Not unbridled and unfocused growth, but an aviation that serves society and industry, with noise and environmental pollution being reduced as much as possible. I am therefore looking forward with interest to the MER Schiphol, which is expected before the summer recess and which we are perhaps all waiting for. Mr. Chairman. The limits of safe flying have been reached or perhaps exceeded, according to the Security Research Council. Pilots have also warned that everything is mixed up. Growth cannot be achieved if security cannot be guaranteed within the present limits. The Christian Union wants us not only to monitor the nuisance, but also to actually maintain it, in a way that is clear and understandable to everyone what action is being taken in the event of noise ceilings being exceeded. It is good that the Minister wants to make better use of noise measurement in addition to calculating it. I look forward to concrete proposals. I hope the Minister can tell us something about this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u70	Mr Van Raan stands for the interrupting microphone. This is his fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the statements of the VVD. Mr Bruins says that the Christian Union is not of unbridled growth. That's good to hear. That is not what the VVD says in the news that NU.nl wrote about it: he wants controlled growth. As far as the VVD is concerned, a self-imposed limit of 500,000 no longer fits the trend of airport growth. How does the Christian Union judge that statement? Is she okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u72	We agreed in the coalition agreement that Schiphol is at the ceiling of 500,000 flight movements until 2021 and that, if this were to happen, growth should be accompanied by less environmental pollution and less noise. I know Mr Dijkstra as an extremely friendly and loyal colleague, so I assume he meant his remarks entirely within the framework of the coalition agreement, but I would like to hear that from him later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u73	Does it count if I say anything about this? 'Cause then I'm gonna leave it at the raise of my hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u74	Yeah, everything here counts, but non-verbal expressions don't count. Carry on, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u75	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about measuring and calculating. I would like to ask the Minister how the actual and full environmental impact is measured and maintained, including the ultra-fine dust and CO that Mrs Kröger mentioned, since it is not in the current models. I ask the Minister of Finance how public interests such as health and the environment are monitored through the shareholdership of Schiphol. One of these public interests is a sustainable, healthy and safe living environment. How will the Minister protect this public interest through shareholdership? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the Christian Union has great concerns about the position of KLM, which has achieved good results within the construction with Air France but appears to be dragged into the trap of Air France. The Netherlands has little or no control over KLM's future. How will the Minister of Finance protect KLM's position? What can the Minister of Infrastructure contribute to this through her responsibility for landing rights? Mr. Chairman. The growth of Schiphol Airport is captured by the opening of Lelystad Airport, as was agreed ten years ago. The Minister previously announced that the opening of Lelystad airport will not take place until 2020. The Christian Union considers it wise that the minister chooses care over speed: do not push through, do not cut corners. It is precisely in a process that affects so many people that it is of the utmost importance that the government acts as a reliable government, transparent, open and communicative. In the previous cabinet period, bad mistakes were made in the calculations and in the process. It is a good thing that this minister has chosen to regain trust in the government, let residents watch and count, publish all models, numbers and calculations openly and accept that a net process needs the time it needs. For the ChristianUnion, it must be clear that Lelystad airport meets all the conditions and can fulfil its function as intended, as a landing for Schiphol Airport. A faultless and approved EIA, as was delivered last month, is the least people can expect. In addition, two preconditions are needed to know that Lelystad can function as intended and agreed ten years ago, when this was decided. Firstly, in order to be able to operate as a landing airport for Schiphol Airport, it is necessary to ensure that flights are moved from Schiphol Airport to Lelystad and that Lelystad will not generate its own autonomous growth. This requires discussions with the European Commission. I'm asking the Minister what's going on with that now. Secondly, it is necessary to provide more certainty that aircraft can move freely to cruising heights after the airspace has been reorganised, so that the unnecessarily burdensome low-flying routes can be stopped as soon as possible. Can the Minister further confirm that the forthcoming airspace review will be more than just applying the flexible use of airspace principle? This would only lead to higher low-flying routes, and that is not unhindered and as fast as possible. The Christian Union notes that a number of concerns have been improved in the plans. For example, aircraft will fly significantly higher near Zwolle Stadshagen and the planes will no longer cross Ede. In previous debates, the Christian Union has drawn attention to this. But how will the situation become after reclassification or when the district of Stadshagen expands to the northwest, as planned? Can the Minister guarantee that the situation with gliding flights above the Vechtdal after the airspace review will not deteriorate compared to the current plans? The biggest concern for the Christian Union remains the situation at Wezep. There's no solution. It remains incomprehensible that the boundary condition 'do not fly over residential cores' is so blatantly violated here. Can the Minister say more about the situation at Wezep? When does it intend to clarify what can be done to reduce nuisance? The new EIA no longer talks about "holiday" traffic, but about "large commercial traffic" at Lelystad. Can the Minister promise that a new Airport Decision will stipulate that there will be no exclusive cargo flights at Lelystad airport and no more than 10,000 flight movements until airspace is reorganised? Mr. Chairman. Because there is still so much uncertainty, it is important to monitor not only noise, but also noise in the years 2020-2022, but also afterwards. How will enforcement take place? Is there going to be a zero measurement so that effects can actually be measured? The ChristianUnion wants measuring points, also outside Flevoland, and especially under the route that leads along the Veluwe. If air traffic does not comply with the agreements made, action must be taken immediately, and not only after yet another interim report. Mr President, I shall conclude. The route from Lelystad over the IJsselmeer, via the Kop van Noord-Holland and then to the south bending over the North Sea, is the so-called London route. Recently it became known that this is also a serious option. After taking off from Lelystad a decision has to be made: left on the North Sea or right on the Veluwe? The Christian Union wants as many planes as possible to go left. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether the route to the left of the North Sea can become the preferred route, so that as few aircraft as possible will fly over the Veluwe? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u76	Mr Bruins has a lot of questions and concerns about the EIA and the uncertainties. Actually, I share those concerns. I should like to quote from the Commission's opinion on the M.E.R. It states: "As long as there is no final decision on the reclassification of airspace, the situation may arise that the EIA does not describe the effects of the final actual use of the airport'. In this section of the Commission's opinion on the It actually states that until airspace is reorganised, we do not know how much nuisance those 45,000 flights are going to cause. Isn't this exactly the point why the Christian Union should say together with GroenLinks: first re-assemble and then see further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u77	I have also said in an earlier debate that it is actually quite illogical to open an airport if it is not clear what the final picture looks like. That is why it is also important for the Christian Union to have more certainty, that we know that we will be off those low-flying routes when the reclassification is over. At the moment, we have no certainty about that. The last thing I remember is that in January, the air traffic controller's boss said that they could not give any guarantee that the low-fly routes were gone after airspace reclassification. That's really too thin, too economical. We are really looking for a better indication, with more certainty, that this airspace reclassification also really helps to ensure that Lelystad can be a full-fledged airport where the aircraft can cross, as is the case with a normal airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u78	In what way does Mr Bruins seek this certainty and is this a harsh condition that that certainty is there before the growth of Lelystad Airport is even begun?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u79	The Christian Union believes that more clarity and certainty are needed before we can start the decision-making process. I am looking for an indication of this in the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u80	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, just in time. I'm going to continue on those low-fly routes and the situation in Lelystad after airspace reclassification. I hear Mr Bruins saying that the final picture must be clear, that it is therefore undesirable to open an airport if the final picture is not clear. Now the situation around Lelystad is such that the final picture, the reclassification of airspace, will not be ready until 2023. That's what we've been hearing for a while. According to current plans, however, the airport will open in 2020, with low flight routes. I can't rhyme with that. On the one hand, Mr Bruins says that the final picture must be clear and, on the other hand, I do not hear Mr Bruins condemning low-flying routes and calling them undesirable and something we are not going to do. How does this rhyme with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u82	I think we all find these low-fly routes undesirable. They shouldn't be there either, because when the decision was made in 2008 that Lelystad would be there, it was clear ten years ago that a new airspace was needed. It didn't come in time. All kinds of delays have occurred for all kinds of reasons. Originally, Lelystad would open in 2018, which became 2019. It's gonna be 2020 at the earliest. The number of aircraft to fly was 2,000 in 2018, 4,000 in 2019, 6,000 in... That's gonna be a lot less. It is important that we minimise the nuisance and that the period of low flight routes is as short as possible. In any case, the final picture must be clear, so that you know that there will be an airport that can operate independently, where aircraft can eventually continue to cross, and that in the long term it will become a really profitable airport. That's a final picture you want to be clear about when you talk about opening or not opening Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u83	I would like to make another specific proposal to Mr Bruins, because I have a very good proposal to minimise the nuisance. That's choosing not to do those low-fly routes together. Then we minimized it, then they are not there. Then we are waiting for the airspace to be reorganised. Once again, the SP is against the growth of aviation; let that be clear. But can we say that these low-flying routes are undesirable and that we are simply not going to do them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u84	Over the last few months, I have always pointed out that the Christian Union must be at the heart of the fact that the government is reliable and keeps its word. We stressed this, in January and February, towards the residents, the locals, on the Veluwe, in Overijssel, in Gelderland, that they know where they stand, that there will be a proper process, that there will be no mistakes and that everything will go step by step. But that also applies to the people and entrepreneurs in Flevoland, in Lelystad. Well, it's been ten years since we decided that airport's gonna be there. That has been delayed for two years now. The number of planes that are going to fly is rising slowly. The number is lower than originally the plan was. There too, we have an obligation to be a reliable government. The Christian Union is looking for a good balance. This also means that you say to the people in Flevoland: the airport will eventually get there, but we want to make sure that it is an airport that can also fulfil its function.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u85	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Man has always felt the need to fly. There were experiments with homemade wings, Zeppelins and hovering machines. In 1903, it was the first controlled motorized flight by the Wright brothers in North Carolina. Records have since been broken by pioneers, the heroes of their time. In the Netherlands this happened with Fokker, among others. 100 years ago, the KLM was founded by Albert Plesman. What has been built up in those 100 years is the result of perseverance, of innovation, of smart merchantship, with an open eye to the rest of the world. That was the case then, and it should not be different in the future. However, nothing is obvious in aviation. Aviation has brought much to the Netherlands: Europe's third airport, 70 million passengers, our country as an attractive location. Many companies, especially from far away places, opt for the Netherlands to establish a European headquarters here, partly thanks to its 326 direct connections with the rest of the world. There are connections to virtually everyone's homeland. The added value of mainport traffic runs in the many billions. There are tens of thousands of jobs involved. For their well-deserved holiday, the Dutch also like to catch the plane to the south, towards the sun. Freight traffic is also of great added value. On my recent visit to Schiphol, I saw the loading of parts for a satellite that was launched a week later in Frans-Guyana. There are also many transfer passengers arriving and leaving via our mainport. That all means growth for aviation. Then there must also be room for that growth to take place. At the same time, the Netherlands is a small country and space is scarce. Moreover, there are, of course, residents to take into account. Therefore, in the past, agreements have been reached with all the parties involved on the number of movements to reduce the nuisance. It has also been decided to move holiday flights as far as possible from Schiphol Airport to other airports, in order to make room, just for valuable mainport traffic. An important part of these plans is Lelystad Airport. The opening of Lelystad Airport will allow aviation to grow further. But Lelystad Airport has been postponed. The question now is: how to proceed? The repaired environmental impact assessment has now been tested positively. We must continue with the next step, because according to the VVD Lelystad must also be used as the seventh orbit of Schiphol. A survey carried out by EenVandaag on 5 May this year provided interesting data. There are more supporters than opponents of the idea of catching the growth of the number of flights in the Netherlands via Lelystad Airport. A large majority also welcomes the fact that air traffic is distributed across the country and, for example, goes to Eindhoven and Lelystad. It is therefore also clear to the VVD that Lelystad Airport should be open as soon as possible and that a total stop on air traffic in the Netherlands is undesirable. It costs us jobs, both directly and indirectly. We therefore still support the idea that other airports should take over holiday traffic from Schiphol Airport. This gives Schiphol the space again for intercontinental mainport-related traffic, business traffic and freight traffic. This means that we cannot afford to close Schiphol Airport until 2020. Then the VVD is not about extra passengers in larger aircraft or higher occupancy rates. No, it's really about the numbers and frequency of direct connections with the rest of the world, so it's about the economic importance of connectivity with the rest of the world. The VVD therefore wants to give Schiphol more space, but only on the condition of selectivity. That would be very nice. Of course, this growth must also be able to take place safely and the obstacles must be reduced as much as possible. It can also be safe, provided a number of adjustments are made. Then it is also a question of questioning the fourth job rule. Let's enter it. Why not use two plus two all the time? Maybe two plus three is also possible. This prevents both nuisance and danger. It can also be physical. I ask the Minister to talk to the aviation sector and to the stakeholders, with the aim of allowing a controlled, trendy growth of Schiphol. That's different from unbridled growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u87	A question for clarification to Mr Dijkstra. The coalition agreement talks about 500,000 flight movements until 2021. There is also the signature of the VVD underneath. So much for the information from a year, or three-quarters of a year ago. Now the VVD says, "We'll break it open." Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u88	The coalition agreement says literally: "The environmental gains achieved by the sector since the entry into the Alders Agreement"..................................................................................................................................................................................... The remaining 50% of the environmental gain is used to reduce the nuisance for residents." That is a very clear framework. In 2008, when the Alders agreement was reached, agreements were made. It was a total chord, one and unbreakable. At that time there were 580,000 flight movements in the Netherlands. That was divided over Schiphol with 500,000, where we are now at the tax, a piece of Eindhoven and the rest would be Lelystad. Lelystad has not been opened, so that means that according to that agreement of one and indivisible now there is a deficit. A number of airlines have a screaming need. At a recent technical briefing we saw that there is an additional question of more than 52,000 slots than we have available. I have stressed the economic importance; standstill is also a decline. All in all, I think, enough reason to say within the framework of the coalition agreement, which I stand for, that we can use that space in accordance with the Alders agreement, but we must do so before the 2021 date. And that room is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u89	But the Alders agreement talks about up to 500,000 flight movements at Schiphol Airport. If I understand the VVD correctly, it actually says that because of the failure, or at least the delay, of Lelystad, we are going to break up with a part of the Alders agreement, namely more flight movements at Schiphol Airport. This while we're talking about social support, agreement is agreement, reliable government. I read the coalition agreement as: those 500,000 flight movements are at Schiphol Airport. But the VVD says a few months later: no, we're going to do it differently; we're going to break the coalition agreement. It is to the left or to the right, but I believe that the VVD is breaking the coalition agreement and the agreements that have been made with Alders at the moment because of Mr Dijkstra's attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u90	No, I don't share that opinion. I say that 50% benefits sustainable growth in aviation and the other 50% benefits the environment. The 500,000 flight deal is up. But we can already see what this environmental gain is. For that, we need a Schiphol Mer. Then we can calculate that environmental gain. I say that we can use it before 2021. That is in line with the coalition agreement as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u91	Fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u92	Well, let's get to the conclusion. Agreements were made in 2008 which are unbreakable and of great importance for the acceptance that we are beginning to miss more and more when it comes to the growth of aviation. I have to say that the VVD now says that these agreements have been made, but we are going to break up with a part of the Alders agreement by flying more at Schiphol Airport. Seems like a tough story. Difficult in the coalition but above all a difficult story to all those neighbors of Schiphol and surroundings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u93	I have said before that the Alders table has brought a lot of good from the past. I'm happy about that. But that table is over the date. It doesn't work anymore. Why doesn't it work anymore? Because the Alderstable is based on three components. You've got Schiphol and the airlines, you've got the residents and you've got the regional drivers. And we, as government, are watching a little bit; we have one of those 30 people at the table. Those three parties come to compromises with each other. Sometimes it's two versus one, sometimes the three of them agree. It's beautiful. This has brought much into the past. But now you see that one of the parties, who sat a little short at the table, namely the government, has failed to deliver. I am referring to the reclassification of airspace and an open Lelystad. If one of the parties says "I don't open that" and another party says "listen, we have a problem," that means you have to have dinner with each other. That is exactly what I ask the Minister to do: go to the table; see if you can come to a solution. That is also the principle of the Alderstable, and as long as we still have it, we must use it in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u94	I heard Mr Dijkstra say that airlines are crying out for more growth, that this is necessary. I've also heard a lot of people screaming over the past few months, hearing their concerns expressed. Those are the inhabitants, local residents and environmental movements, who are also sitting in the gallery today. I would advise Mr Dijkstra to talk to them and listen to them. My question is about the coalition agreement, because I hear Mr Dijkstra outline a framework in which he does not mention 500,000 flight movements until 2020. I have just heard three coalition parties who have also signed the coalition agreement, and who do say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u95	Mr Paternotte has yet to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u96	Oh, I'm sorry, then two by now, but I'm sure Mr Paternotte will mention that as well. They say, however, that the 500,000 flight movements are up to 2020. Mr Dijkstra says no. In my opinion, the coalition agreement is also one and unbreakable, so my question is: who reads the coalition agreement wrong? Does Mr Dijkstra read it loosely or does he tell his two colleagues that they are not reading it correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u97	Firstly, the 500,000 is not in the coalition agreement. It's just not in there. It does say "compliant appointments at the Alderstable," so fifty-fifty. I couldn't agree more. For the rest, I think that is a difference of interpretation between the VVD and the rest of the partners. I hope that at some point they will also realise that we should not lock Schiphol, precisely because of all these connections and the economic importance. The people you speak to also like to fly. Not everyone's against Schiphol. You can suffer from it, it can be very annoying, but a lot of people also benefit from it or work there. If we have to weigh that balance, we shouldn't lock it now. We have to give room for that. That does not have to be unbridled growth; I do not argue for that either. But let's go along with the trend, because if this doesn't happen, you'll see the misery at KLM now too.There's a very good reason to say: boy, that flight from India to the Netherlands can't anymore, because we don't have a place anymore; we have to sell no. To that head office from Japan and Korea we must say: sorry, we have no place for you. Then they leave elsewhere and then those flights may go to Paris and those headquarters to other countries. That's what we need to avoid. The economic importance of Schiphol is evident to the VVD. That is why I say let go of that, be flexible in it and go to the table. That's my message.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u98	I am going to help Mr Dijkstra with the coalition agreement. It says: 'the agreed flight ceiling until 2020'. This is interpreted by two coalition partners as 500,000. That is interpreted by the Minister as 500,000. Last time on oral Question Time, she said no, 500,000 to 2021. How does Mr Dijkstra interpret the phrase "the agreed flight ceiling until 2020"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u99	Well, as it says, that is one of many challenges, as well as climate, and neighbours, that participation has to be in another way, that a successful home carrier is the basis of our economic importance, that selectivity policy needs to be better. So all these things have a connection. This is one of the major challenges facing us. We need to find a solution to that. Today, I put that solution in a pond like some kind of stone. I realize I'm not gonna get that done today. I'm also aware that that might take a while. But it is necessary, because I would like to see you standing here when you say 'I do not want any more growth in aviation' or 'pick it out with your companies'. Then I see Mr. Laçin standing here with the unions: "Oh, oh, I'm so sorry we're losing our jobs!" Those things are a prospect, and I don't want to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u100	Mr Dijkstra says that the fact that Lelystad Airport is not yet there is a failure of the government. The government has failed in its agreements with the aviation sector in this case. But those appointments at the Alders table were also made with residents. How do you justify that the fact that the government is failing means that you would saddle residents around Schiphol with more flights before 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u101	I do not quite understand your question, but you will have to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u102	Maybe he should do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u103	The government didn't deliver what she actually promised to do. In that sense, I called that failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u104	Okay. You may explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u105	One of the things that the government promised not to the airlines but to the residents is that until 2021 the border is 500,000. It's a clear line. How do you justify that the fact that Lelystad Airport is not there, due to the failure of the government, for the residents around Schiphol means that they get more flight movements earlier, while agreements have been made with them as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u106	Right now, that's 500,000. There is no majority yet that wants to change that. I'll give it a shot. Comparing the people around Schiphol with the rest of the country is complicated, I think. I understand everyone's concern. Especially when you live in a quiet area, it's very annoying when you get a plane at 2 kilometers altitude, because then you hear it too. But compare it with the people of Uithoorn and Aalsmeer, who live 350 meters away. That's a different situation. In the whole of the Netherlands there is construction or nature reserve. Lelystad Airport is simply necessary, precisely because of the agreements we have made with each other about economic growth at Schiphol Airport and about moving holiday traffic. That is a consequence, because not all of the Netherlands is quiet area, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u107	Fifth question, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u108	I understand very well that Mr Dijkstra is saying that he does not have a majority for this at the moment, but I am naturally asking for the justification of his proposal. Does he think that the residents around Schiphol can also count on the arrangements made at the Alderstables?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u109	I believe that every resident in the Netherlands should be able to count on a government that is also there for their benefit. We're in this house making the trade-offs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u110	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u111	I would particularly like to ask the Minister about the planned reclassification. It's Columbus' egg anyway, so of course we all want it faster. I would also ask her to inform us about selectivity policy, because that must of course be maintained. As far as we are concerned, it should be as simple as possible. Let us indeed make sure that those devices can leave Schiphol and that the holiday traffic goes to an airport that is actually much more interesting for the holidaymaker, because it can park there quickly and quickly leave. Both are also important for nuisance reduction and targeted growth. The selectivity policy says that you can use Schiphol primarily for business traffic, hub-related traffic, intercontinental traffic and freight traffic, and that the holiday flights can indeed go to Lelystad. Can the Minister continue to inform us about selectivity policy? How are we doing right now? How do we keep that simple and legally tight so that we can take this next hurdle after the EIA? In the long term, we are also faced with the question of how we are going to shape participation. We've had a very good round table about this. The order of the Alderstables............................................................................................................................................................................................. ORS has also done important work there. The whole Lelystad dossier has actually demonstrated how important it is to bring people along in time and to take the involvement of stakeholders in the aviation dossier seriously. My question is: could the ORS residents also consult a little more broadly towards those two advices that are still coming? This is without prejudice to the fact that buttons need to be cut, because you cannot just be against them: you must also think constructively and everyone's interest must be weighed. So the direction has to go back to the government. What is the Minister's view of this participation? Can she inform us about that? I do not expect a very comprehensive plan, but when will we get more modern forms of participation? For example, the interests of people working at Schiphol Airport can also be taken into account. The Internet may play a greater role in this. One more thing about KLM, Mr. Chairman. On 13 March 2015, appointments were made on paper by then Secretary of State Mansveld. At that time, there were five points. I would ask the Minister for Finance, in particular, but perhaps also the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State, if we have the space to sustain it. In particular, these agreements are: no further centralisation of KLM activities and business lines towards the holding company in Paris, no transfer of jobs, no transfer of flights, and independent financial management in the field of cash position and a number of guarantees. Can the appointments from that letter be settled in this time frame? You were there on Friday, and I think you're doing more than just giving a hand. Of course, you are also trying to defend the Dutch interest. I appreciate that very much, and I hope that will work. Mr. Chairman. Finally, one question about small aviation. Well, that's a little bit of the underhand baby, isn't it? There's a lot of flying on Lelystad. There are spools, there are cleaning, there are helicopter flights: there are all kinds of activities. How do we monitor the importance of the General Aviation in the Netherlands? How do we make sure he gets a seat at this table? It's an important sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u112	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u113	Mr. Chairman. "France is a beautiful country, only a pity that French people live there." That statement should not have been made by a certain minister, but at the KLM they can say it now. Because, as The Economist says, the French are being stunted by the KLM, who does make a profit. Opposite poldering stands the nature of "nous avons grèves," and the KLM's I do not very quickly see the clothes of the body of Pieter Elbers tear. But KLM is too small to do anything in the aviation world alone. A strong partner was and is needed. We can also see that, because the national airlines of Belgium, Switzerland, Greece, Italy and Hungary are bankrupt or virtually bankrupt. The KLM stands proud and is bigger than ever, partly because of the merger. In order to keep it that way, the chaos in Paris must be brought to an end quickly. Minister Hoekstra has already drawn a line with Bruno Le Maire. That's very good. If the French government makes it clear that Air France cannot hold hands with the Elysée, then the pilots' association there should also cooperate in a strong Air France-KLM, because that is ultimately best: Air France-KLM as an independent company, at a distance from both the French and the Dutch state. Of course, that doesn't take away the great importance of the KLM. That is why my question is whether Minister Hoekstra is prepared to further scale up to a leading group of Prime Minister Rutte, President Macron, and with them Schiphol, Aéroports de Paris and the Dutch trade unions, if the hard line of Le Maire is not enough. This group together can make clear what is needed to save Dutch and French jobs, for now and in the distant future. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I am going from Paris to Schiphol, but I will remain with Minister Hoekstra, to whom, by the way, much thanks for coming to this aviation debate. He manages the shares of Schiphol. Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen provides the policy, Minister Bijleveld supplies the military police and Minister Grapperhaus monitors the border process. Does the left hand know what the right hand is doing at Schiphol? Which one of you is responsible for not clogging Schiphol with record numbers of passengers? I ask this because the airport produces dividends on the one hand and on the other hand has a lot of problems. The Action Agenda Schiphol states that the government must ensure optimal framework conditions for the proper functioning as a mainport. And yet we see three things now. One. Every summer problems at the border, queues, once even the army's deployment. Two. Report on report in which the OVV criticises the security situation airside. And three. The revision of airspace, which has been launched far too late. As far as D66 is concerned, we have the shares of Schiphol because of the public interest. So the question to Minister Hoekstra: do you also feel responsible for this kind of problem in your company? And if so, is it not desirable, in the case of a State participation with as many social interests as Schiphol, to make a more comprehensive assessment? In concrete terms, if Schiphol has a proposal for an in-depth investment and an improvement in the border process that is contrary to the dividend requirement in a given year, how are the possible savings secured by other ministries? After all, a better border process can save money in the Ministries of Defence and Justice. Mr. Chairman. I come to growth, because saying that Schiphol as Europe's third airport is irrelevant to the economy is bullshit. Hundreds of thousands of people get out of bed every morning or evening to get to work, thanks to that airport. But now many are asking the question, now that Lelystad has been postponed, whether we should raise more planes as soon as possible or land at Schiphol Airport. As far as we are concerned, the answer is: no, until 2021, just not. We'd like to hear how the Minister answers this question. Because instead of increasing flight movements, we like to see them greening. Schiphol Airport is the third airport in Europe. The demands that are being made here can force airlines to become more sustainable. Aviation must be in place and in the Paris climate agreement. Already easyJet and Tui fly put their relatively cleanest devices on Schiphol Airport. After LATAM, the KLM is the most energy-efficient service provider and that is also relative to all major airlines around the world. We see four ways to build that further. One. The harbor fees. Not only do Schiphol have troublemakers burdened with port charges, but also airplanes with more climate impact. The more economical, the cheaper. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with Schiphol? Two. If more European airports, like Schiphol, differentiate in port fees, Europe-wide carriers such as easyJet and Ryanair will also receive more green pepper from behind. Is the Minister prepared to build such a European leading group of greeners? Three. Slot allocation cannot be based on durability, but aircraft types can be refused. The Airbus A321neo is almost half more economical per seat than an old Embraer from 2002. Is the Minister prepared, in consultation with Schiphol, to draw up an extinct scheme for the most polluting devices per seat? And finally. In future, Schiphol should not become an airport but a railway station: a multimodal hub that connects the airport directly with all major cities in North-West Europe and their airports. For this, I'm considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the North Sea. In the 1950s half of Amsterdam ran to demonstrate at Schiphol Airport for maintenance of the airport at this location.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u114	Finish your sentence first, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u115	This was my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u116	Oh, okay. Then I'll go to Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u117	I just wanted to get back to the last block about sustainability. I think we're in agreement. Several parties in the Chamber say that growth of Schiphol should be possible in a sustainable way. We also mentioned this in the coalition agreement. You're saying that the most polluting or kerosene-using.I don't know how to call that in general................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, aircraft at a short distance, to London or within Europe, are more new but also smaller and more economical. How am I supposed to interpret that with intercontinental flights? If you are going to make them all much more expensive, are you not expecting an opposite effect? We are going to make intercontinental flights, what this hub function is for, much more expensive and stimulate cheap flights from aircraft that are less polluting at short distances? How am I supposed to interpret that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u118	We consider sustainability to be important for all types of aircraft, including intercontinental, long flights. The longest flights can be operated with a Boeing 787, which can be operated with an Airbus A330, but it can also be operated with an old Airbus A340 or with a Boeing 747. That makes a lot of difference, sometimes even a kilo of CO emissions per seat per 100 kilometres. We prefer to have less port fees paid by the cleanest types and perhaps more by the most polluting types. Let's consider the climate impact. This gives airlines a very good incentive to use their cleanest aircraft and to renew their fleet more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u119	Betting is good, but does that have the effects you want to achieve? Again, do you often weigh that effect on intercontinental flights with larger aircraft? Aren't we going to put a much heavier burden on KLM's hub function on those flights or on those planes? Do you think it's possible that flights will take you to other airports? We are all saying, including your party, that we may have to go to London less by plane in the future, but more by train. But aren't we going to stimulate the opposite? You don't think that's an undesirable effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u120	I just said KLM, TUI fly and Easyjet have the cleanest planes on Schiphol. I know a lot of people say that aviation is not clean. They are right, because aviation is an extremely polluting sector of transport. It is also not a branch that makes you electric very easily, as we are trying to do with the car and freight transport, for example. Still, it matters that KLM has so quickly deployed more Dreamliners in recent years, Boeings 787. That is also why KLM is the cleanest of all European airlines, relatively of course. We would like Schiphol to be a driver and to encourage more and more companies to renew their fleet more quickly, to remove the most polluting containers more quickly and to replace them with relatively cleaner ones. Now there are flights at Schiphol Airport for regional short flights Embraers E190. They are almost twice as polluting per seat as the latest Airbus A321neo. We want to see a change to cleaner appliances as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u121	We share that ambition to move to cleaner devices, but we already have a differentiation in sound. There are already categories for that. So you want to expand it; I understand that very well. My question is, in fact, the following. Very often there is a combination of passengers and cargo. How do you deal with that? I was just setting the example of that satellite that went to French Guiana. The parts of it were in an old-fashioned cargo rig. That was a Russian thing. I'm sure that's a hell of a lot of noise. How are we going to ensure that cargo stays in place at our airport, even if it may be small, precisely because of all those companies like ASML that also transport those large packages via these kinds of devices?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u122	That Russian device that brings rockets to French Guiana is indeed quite a big thing. I believe that this is also the reason why ESA generally prefers to transport by ship if it wants to bring rockets to French Guiana. They only do this when there is a great deal of haste and exceptionally. Then people will also be walking out of the country to see that danger. I don't think neighbors of Schiphol have the most noise nuisance. It doesn't have the most climate impact in it either. It is in scheduled services that are carried out every day or several times a day with a device, where it matters whether it is a much cleaner type or a rather old device that does not handle kerosene efficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u124	Mr. Chairman. I had landed near Schiphol in the sea. I mentioned the demonstration in the fifties where a lot of people ran for preservation of Schiphol at the current location. Suppose we decide to move, then I do not know if half of Amsterdam ends up again. The option of Schiphol in the sea has been examined, and there were enough objections: the wind, the rising sea level, the salt from the sea that hinders the sight of pilots. But if one country can do it, it's the Netherlands. The costs are enormous, but what are the benefits? The building land that gets out, the noise pollution that disappears, the jobs it creates. The question is what the state of the art is. Is the Minister prepared to re-explore this in the run-up to the Aviation Note? Mr President, then enforcement. Anticipated enforcement was also called by Professor of Public Economic Law Annetje Ottow. My question to the Minister is simple. Is it prepared to legally anchor all the hard agreements made with residents if they so wish? And is the Minister prepared to discuss with the ORS how agreements on numbers of night flights and job use can be established in such a way that the ILT can continue to apply if necessary this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u125	I would like to come back to the previous point. I, too, will be going into the airport at sea in my contribution in a moment. I would like to ask Mr Paternot whether he is aware of the motion tabled by our colleagues from the Provincial States of South Holland and which has also been taken over. These are your colleague Breitbarth of D66 and my colleague, Mr Bakx, of 50PLUS. They are insisting on this. Is this D66 initiative part of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u126	I am well aware of this, and let me be completely transparent because you showed me the motion half an hour ago. I know, therefore, that at the time she was presented by D66 and 50PLUS in the Provincial States of South Holland, including Mr Breitbarth, whom I regularly speak on this subject and who today was positive about the idea of putting it back on the agenda here. So let's hang out in there together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u128	Dan Lelystad. To paraphrase Eric Wiebes about another mud file: the preparation for Lelystad is a government failure of non-Dutch proportions. After 2008, all flight routes, the reclassification of airspace, the arrangements with residents and the selectivity policy could and should have been regulated. And in 2017 this turned out to be a big mud pool, so the right to exist of Lelystad Airport is not yet regulated. We will be discussing the redeployment of airspace in the near future. But for now, the following questions. What about the traffic distribution rule? Does the Minister agree with D66 that it should be wide enough to fill the entire airport of Lelystad with flights coming from Schiphol? When will the Netherlands send a proposal to the European Commission? And where are the concerns of the European Commission? Mr Bruins already asked about the new EIA. My question is what will happen in the future with new night flights? Because not only the Dutch airspace is full, but also the European airspace. In order to be able to operate holiday flights in an economically cost-effective way, some believe that a night-time holiday operation is essential. As the CEO of Dutch Corendon said about the relocation to Lelystad Airport: we will let ourselves be bought out, provided that we can also operate in the night hours from Lelystad. Can the Minister respond to these Corendon statements? The third question is whether the Minister is responsible for all the Commission's recommendations to the Member States. Take over. That question was also asked by Mr Amhaouch. And the fourth question is whether based on the new EIA an estimate is made of the necessary disadvantage compensation for entrepreneurs on the Veluwe under the flight routes. And how will the job losses suffered by the disappearance of small aviation activities at Lelystad Airport be compensated within Flevoland? Mr President, I see that I have used more than my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u129	Thank you. Let me now give the floor... Oh, Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u130	I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u131	Yeah, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u132	Does D66 want to reduce CO emissions from aviation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u133	I have just made a rather concrete proposal, which I was able to explain in detail with thanks to Mr Amhaouch. So the answer is yes. I'm sure there'll be a follow-up question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u134	That was your last question, Mrs Kröger. That's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u135	Then I'll wait until the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u136	That's a cliffhanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u137	Mrs. Van Brenk's turn is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u138	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u139	Yes. You don't believe it, but it's true. They've used up all of their interruptions, at least almost all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In its report last year, the Safety Research Council noted that the situation at Schiphol Airport could not be classified as unsafe, but that, under the current circumstances and rules, safety in the future is no longer a matter of course. This is contrary to the conclusion of Air Traffic Control Netherlands, which states that the airport can progress to 540,000 movements under the condition of a relaxation of the fourth runway rule. How is this compatible? Nevertheless, we can assume that both sides have a high regard for security, but the conclusions of both sides are contradictory. How's the Minister handling this? How does it ensure that safety is and remains the most important starting point, as confirmed by the 50PLUS motion adopted? The procedure around Lelystad airport does not deserve a beauty prize. We therefore welcome the Minister's desire to regain confidence and postpone the opening to 2020. But the question is whether this is enough. 50PLUS doubt that. 50PLUS attaches importance to a reliable government. This means that all decisions must be consistent, transparent and logical and that the data is based on reliable data. That did not happen in this process. Unfortunately, the Minister also says that she wants to open before the airspace reclassification is completed. That makes no sense as far as 50PLUS is concerned, because how can you carry out an environmental impact assessment that actually cuts wood? In this way, the long-term environmental impact assessment is based on a non-existent situation. That is unacceptable to us. Research commissioned by Low Flight Routes NO Friesland itself speaks of a "deadly government" because the reclassification of airspace could have started as early as 2009. Now, nine years later, we're not much further. I'd like a reaction to that. Another important consideration of the issue of Schiphol and Lelystad airports is the health of local residents. Firstly, there is, of course, the noise load. Is the Minister aware of the GGD report Experience surveys on nuisance and sleep disruption air traffic Schiphol? There are major health effects. Serious sleep disruption due to air traffic in the Kennemerland region occurs in 16,000 people. In Kennemerland and Haarlemmermeer, about 31,000 people experience serious noise from air traffic. We also hear more and more stories about lowflying about Oegstgeest. It has just been mentioned: more and more studies show the negative effects of particulate matter and ultra-fine dust. They're heavy. The loss of life for people in the immediate vicinity of airports can reach up to a year. With two airports about 40 kilometres apart, there are a lot of people involved. If we increase the number of permitted flights, it won't get any better. RIVM is investigating it now, but it's running until 2021. But we already know that fine dust is harmful to health, don't we? Fine dust is already harmful to health in the smallest concentrations. The government really has to do something with that. In the Netherlands, the standards for particulate matter are much less stringent than those of the WHO. Why is that? And what does the Minister think? The Secretary of State is working on a plan to improve air quality. That is a good thing, and that is also very much needed, but aviation remains out of hand for the time being, even though it has a major impact. We think this is a missed opportunity. Are the effects on health care of the increase in the number of flights at Schiphol sufficiently important? Is there any contact with the Secretary of State about this? Schiphol wants to be a CO-neutral airport. How's this going? Can the Minister say anything about this? For 50PLUS it is incomprehensible that General Aviation does not count in the official figures for both airports. It also contributes to emissions and noise pollution. The picture of the consequences is incomplete, because it all adds up. Aviation doesn't count in the climate agreement. General Aviation does not count for the number of flights from airports. What the hell is going on? Shouldn't everyone make an equal contribution? Can the Minister explain why she thinks it is right that aviation should not contribute to the climate agreement? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the government will have to use cleaner flights, even if it wants to increase the number of flights at Schiphol and Lelystad in the long term. What possibilities does the Minister see for stimulating cleaner flies? We'd like to hear that. 50PLUS is in favour of a flight tax at EU level, because it remains incomprehensible to us that you can fly to Malaga for less than €30 while the train costs more than €26 from Groningen to Limburg. Unimaginable and unwise. The government agreement talks about European agreements on aviation taxation and a tax on noisy and polluting aircraft. Can the Minister tell us what's going on with that? As far as we are concerned, we need to see mobility in coherence. It is not just about airports, but also about ports and good and fast train connections. It is also about asking us what is best for the Netherlands in a broad sense. Why not have a broad mobility note in which we ask ourselves what minimum volume is needed? Is it not more important to strive for balance than to maximize? Can the Minister reflect on this? And then I just mentioned the question of the airport in the sea. Some time ago, the Minister asked questions from 50PLUS that this option has already been examined. But Nieuwsuur's research shows that the research commissioned by the then minister was suddenly abandoned due to uncertain developments. Researchers involved claim that the results gave rise to continued progress. Why is this option so explicitly kept out of the door? Why not complete this study for a full picture of all options as well? Is the Minister also aware that I have just mentioned it with the motion from South Holland and, if so, what has she done with it? Locking up, Mr. Chairman. The government is very impatient. There is no waiting for airspace to be reorganised. There is no need for further research into health effects. Investigations are being aborted. People started things way too late. That's very strange. The appearance is created that the public authorities allow economic importance to prevail over the effects of the health of its citizens and the environment. That's unthinkable for 50PLUS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u141	I have a question for Mrs Van Brenn. She said we shouldn't fly so much and that it's a little weird that it's so cheap. I saw a two of you on May 5th when you were having a party in Spain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u143	I was wondering how you went there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u144	I took the KLM on a scheduled flight to Valencia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u145	I think this also illustrates the dilemma with which we are faced. On the one hand we say that we want to make it more sustainable, but on the other hand we really like to use this kind of facilities to actually go to your friends in Spain, or for family visits or to go on holiday. I think it's a little bit in there. Isn't that it, Mrs. Van Brenk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u146	Yes, but I'd like to pay a reasonable price for that. I flew with the KLM and did not go with one of the prize fighters because I think that is also because of the working conditions. I think everyone has the right to vacation and certainly to fly. We are certainly not unwilling to do so. Nor do we argue that it should all be reduced. But we have to pay a fair price. We find it really very bad that you can fly for so little money while our trains are many times more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u147	With "less, less, less" you should always be careful, because in a moment you will stand in front of the gate!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u148	Oh, yeah, sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u149	"Less, less, less" is a dangerous statement, you know! I could have asked Mr Paternotte, but I am asking you now. I know that my former colleague, Richard de Mos, was once a MP of the PVV, even wanted to make a Formula 1 circuit on the water, just like offices and an airport. He wanted to bring everything to the sea. He immediately stumbled upon the fact that there was no financial cover for it at all. Moreover, it is very far in the future to look, while we really have to act for Schiphol and KLM in the short term, otherwise we will really go in the boat with our companies. Those are questions I'd like to ask. The same goes for an investigation like this. What's the cost of such an investigation? I think that you should also ask the two leaders, because I would like to know all of this before I can advise my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u150	We think it is important that the investigation is completed. That is not entirely done. The proposal of our colleagues in South Holland is to go wider, to do it together with England, so to make it much wider than just the Netherlands. But the land that is released is expensive land. I think that's really interesting, too. We also have the problem of housing. But it is not a very easy and quick solution. I think you should be open to the much longer term, including the health effects, the sound effects and the growth effects. Then this is a good option. I would like to see an open mind look at whether it is not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u151	But perhaps my colleague from 50PLUS will be able to pass on the question. It's possible that motions will be filed shortly. I really want to know what those tests cost. They've all been stopped for a reason. All this also had to do with a lack of financial coverage. And it wasn't feasible at the time. I must be able to advise my group immediately, including on such a motion. So I really want to know what these studies are going to cost, for example the possible future construction of an airport at sea. Maybe that's the future. We don't know. You may be able to direct that on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u152	I am happy to pass that on to the Minister and to put that question to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u153	Of course, I wonder if we can really grow to 800,000 or 900,000 flights if we are going to build an airport at sea. But if you had to do it for the same thing, then it's wasted money, I guess. But aside from that... The point raised by Mrs Van Brenk is more frequent in the debates. We are now almost at the end of the first term and I would therefore like to put it to the House. It is said: you can fly for €30 but Malaga. It's possible. I think these are really chairs for €30. Don't you think that could have something to do with the pay model? The market is doing its job. We can decide which seats leave for €30 and which for €150 or for €300. The picture is sketched as if every plane that goes back and forth had a bunch of subsidies, or as if all the airlines were losing out. That can't be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u154	No, but I've already made it very clear that I'm flying with KLM on purpose. I know that it is much cheaper at Ryanair, but that is really at the expense of corporate social responsibility and the people who work there. I'm not cooperating with that. That's a choice. So I don't think that's a good way to do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u155	No, but what do you think about flying being accessible to families? If a father and mother with three children go on vacation to southern Spain or Turkey, it must also be affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u156	Sure, but because it costs €29, many people go not only once but many, many times more often. The question is: do we all want to facilitate this? And: at the expense of what? Because it also has all kinds of other effects. I just mentioned all the health effects for the people living in the vicinity of airports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u157	I would agree with you if all seats left for €29, all year round, for every flight. But that's not reality. People don't all go on vacation five times to a particular destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u158	But, Madam President, if I may respond to Mr Amhaouch...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u159	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u160	You can see that just those €29 seats push on the prices at our national pride KLM. You may say that the market must do its job, but it has a number of social effects that we should not all want. We call for it to be done in a good and healthy way and with good working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Finally, Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u162	Thank you, Mr President. I have failed to shake hands with both ministers before the debate. I hope to make that up to you later. A piece of well-being is part of it. Sorry about that. Mr. Chairman. Last week, in the recess, I drove from the Veluwe, where I live, to Urk. I saw something built on my left hand. I thought I should take the same route on the way back, because what's going on at Lelystad Airport? And indeed, that's where all the passenger terminal was built. I'm a resident of the Veluwe. I myself do not live under the flight routes and such; let me remove that right away. But what if you do live there and drive through there? Then you think: the procedure has not yet been completed and the airport decision has not yet been taken, but they are already in progress. That's kind of weird. That doesn't help to get a lot of confidence that everything is going well and that there is also room to see things. That's one way. On the other hand, such an airport at Lelystad also delivers a lot, both for Lelystad and for the North Veluwe. It provides jobs and economic growth. There are two sides to this. The SGP has also looked from that context at what is now ahead of us. In previous debates, Mr Bishop, the line of the SGP was: first reclassification of airspace, so that aircraft to and from Lelystad can go higher over the Veluwe and the northern provinces, and then the opening of Lelystad itself, not the other way round. The crucial question here is: is this reclassification really going to result in much higher flights? The Minister sounds pretty sure that the connecting routes are temporary, but when reorganised, those low-flying routes will come to an end. However, in the field we hear doubts, also based on signals from Air Traffic Control Netherlands. Is it technically possible to be at an altitude of three kilometres already for the old country? And to what extent do Germany and Belgium want to participate in this? We are curious how hard the Minister's position is on this. At least I'm not comfortable with it. So our question is: what kind of trap do we swim in? We do not want to accept an amendment to the airport decision if we allow for 45,000 flight movements every year without the condition that these low-flight routes are passé after 2023. What is the Minister going to do if this reclassification is less than expected? Does the Minister have an incentive or a harsh condition to prevent low-flying routes after 2023? As a follow-up, the Minister states that the moment of increase is not fixed or depends on the traffic situation in the airspace. But what are the commitments about flight altitudes and climbing locations worth? We'd like a little explanation on that. What guarantees can the Minister give? It should not be the case that favourable assumptions in the EIA are passed through practice on all sides. For the degree of noise pollution, it makes a lot of difference whether aircraft are rising or not. Can the Minister guarantee that no one will rise above the cores? Last week I was visiting Oldebroek. I spoke to the city council and residents of Wezep there. Those people are wondering how these planes are going about their village. Are they going to cross for Wezep, after Wezep or over Wezep? One promises this, and the other says so. What's it gonna be? The residents have a bit of a feeling that they're a toy ball. The Aviation Commission recommends that, in addition to existing legal frameworks, clear criteria should be set, including for the altitude of the aircraft. Our question to the Minister is whether she will include further criteria in the Air Traffic Services Regulation. Then there's the monitoring. It's already been cited by several. The Commission for the m.e.r. calls for more monitoring. That's what regional authorities want. The minister seems to be moving in on this. But recently I heard from one of the municipalities concerned that despite a previous commitment, the Empire only provides monitoring close to the airport and not at a greater distance, for example in a village like Wezep. Veluwe's municipalities now want to pick that up themselves and start paying for themselves. As far as we are concerned, that cannot be the intention. Monitoring must be properly and widely picked up and not thrown over the fence. Will the Minister, in consultation with the regional authorities, invest in noise measurements, not only at the airport itself, but also at the cores, including zero measurement? A side track in this, a question that also came to our attention and which we are also struggling with, is: how does the Minister see the role of the provinces of Gelderland and Overijssel in this? Is this also true for her, or is it not? Then the growth of aviation. Discussions about Schiphol and Lelystad stand or fall with the question: do you want more or less aviation? I hope that Mr Graus is not going to sit there and ask me questions. I'm not answering that. We have the impression that the Minister is clinging to two thoughts. On the one hand, she is looking for room for growth of Schiphol Airport, but on the other, she is also looking for the introduction of a flight tax. The SGP prefers less than more aviation. The growth of recent years is mainly in low-cost holiday flights, but that does not help our economy very much. Flying creates CO emissions and nuisances and this is still untaxed. As far as we are concerned, it is time to draw stripes and introduce a flight tax quickly and not to wait for European agreements. What does such a heavy flight tax mean for the growth plans? Dan Schiphol. Residents have experience that agreements are not being met and that mouse holes are being used to grow. The number of night flights has increased from 29,000 to 32,000 and the number of flights over the Aalsmeerbaan has increased. You'll live in Aalsmeer! The limit of growth has been reached. There will be a new Aviation Note and air traffic is also on the climate tables. What does a flight tax, for example, mean for the growth of aviation? The Safety Research Council is extremely critical of safety at Schiphol Airport in the event of further growth. I would ask the Minister at least to put in place the growth plans for Schiphol. Finally, there will be extra space for freight flights at Schiphol Airport via a so-called local rule. That arrangement is still waiting for the Minister to approve it. I understand that the Dutch lock coordinator fired that arrangement. How's that? Is the Minister going to work on sufficient space for freight flights? Mr President, on my first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u163	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I actually want to suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m. Then we shall continue with the answer from the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u164	We will continue the debate on Schiphol and Lelystad Airport. I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want answers in cubes. This works the easiest for everyone, also to structure it a bit. I will start with a more general introduction, which is mainly linked to Schiphol. Then I have a folder of sustainability. I'll report in advance that I'm working on the connection to the train in that block. Then there will be a very small block for me Air France-KLM, because most of it will end up with the Minister of Finance. Then I have a block of Lelystad Airport. Finally, there is another block. All the questions you're missing are in that block if it's okay. I'm gonna start with the more general part about Schiphol. We're talking about Schiphol and Lelystad Airport today. I see the public gallery is slowly filling up again. I too would like to welcome all the people in the public gallery, the residents' committees, the provinces, the municipalities and the sector. I have, of course, taken note of the fact that the residents' committees have joined forces nationwide. That's clear for me, too. I'm missing a whole block of people in the public gallery, but I'm sure they'll get back together. My intention is to stay in touch with all these people, as we have been able to do so far. That does not alter the fact that people who do not want to join this country club and yet find everything they want to do will of course continue to be very welcome. Mr. Chairman. It is very good that we are discussing the Schiphol and Lelystad files together today. Lelystad is, as many have reminded us today, intended as a landing airport for Schiphol Airport. The decision to develop Lelystad Airport was taken ten years ago, in 2008, when the cabinet took over the Aldersadvisement. Schiphol should focus on hub- and mainport-related traffic, supported by the development of Eindhoven and Lelystad Airport. That was the intention in two sentences, i.e. selectivity policy. Decisions about Lelystad Airport therefore also have direct consequences for Schiphol Airport. The importance of Schiphol, as many of you have mentioned, is beyond me. It's part of a big network. We will certainly talk about this when we talk about Air France and KLM. Through Air France, that network has been greatly expanded. I believe that Mr Paternotte mentioned the large number of direct destinations, which is of course extremely important for our establishment policy. Many of you have also mentioned all other interests. It's not just about economic importance. It is not just about economic growth. It is not just about direct and indirect employment. It's not just that we as Dutch people want to fly for family visits, for study, for work and also just for vacation. It is of course also about restriction of nuisances, about health, about quiet and safe living. All these interests need to be weighed up. I found it very nice in the debate of the Chamber to see that all these interests have been put forward by these and genes with different intentions or heaviness, I must say. That immediately indicates the complexity of this whole consideration. I have said it before: a number of important things have now been put on the agenda. The first is, very important, the reclassification of airspace, which enables us to make efficient use of airspace. The good cooperation with Defence has not yet been mentioned; I was sorry to hear that. Because today we have only talked about civil flies, but an important part of the airspace is of course also used by the Defence Department. However, I would like to emphasise that, if we are to achieve a proper reclassification of airspace, the constructive attitude of Defence, which I am happy to see there, is essential if we are to achieve a good result, in which we can make better use of Dutch airspace. I would therefore like to add that. The other thing that is also stated in the coalition agreement is that we want to shape aviation in a smart and sustainable way for the future. The sector must earn the potential for sustainable growth, the fifty-fifty principle of the coalition agreement, which has been discussed several times. So there has to be that environmental gain. For the development of aviation, it is extremely important that we have broad consultations, with a lot of stakeholders. I see a few more familiar faces in the public gallery, of people who have been able to eat quickly. I would very much like to continue these consultations so that we can involve everyone who is interested in them and wants to think with them. I will come back to the consultation and participation process a little more extensively, but I can at least tell you that we certainly want to continue the line I have set in relation to transparency, early participation and trying to get broad support. I'll come back to your room for the summer. Mr Amhaouch specifically asked about the Schiphol Environment Council: how will it be evaluated? As you know, there are two further referrals to the Schiphol Environment Council, namely about living and flying and about the new system of standards and enforcement. It will complete the ORS in its current form. Mr Dijkstra asked whether a broader consultation could be included in those two pending opinions. I would very much support that myself, so I will be happy to pass that request on to the ORS. In order to structure the discussion, I would like to point out the following. The development of Schiphol is concerned with three different phases. We have the development in the very long term, which fits with the Aviation Paper 2020-2040. Then we are going to have all these discussions with each other: how can we balance long-term interests in a good way? The medium term covers the years after 2020. In the short term, until 2021, there is still a lot to be accomplished. But for all three phases, I would like to support all of you; I have done so before, too, that safety is number one. Safety is simply the bottom of all plans and decisions for aviation. As a few of you have pointed out, I believe that Mrs Kröger explicitly reported it, the report of the OVV is so important that we should not try to deal with that even and margin of this debate. It is so important that we should have a separate debate on this. That's what your room has planned. I think that it is very good for us as a ministry, but also for the sector, that we should be following and discussing the recommendations very precisely and with each other in that debate, not only you, but also the whole of society. My commitment I have already given you is that we simply fully embrace the OVV report. We are already working hard to adopt these recommendations. Once again, I would like to come back to that in the debate that we specifically have on flight safety. So I will not go into it in too much detail now, but I will gladly do so, because I share with you that this must be the basis of everything. I would like, as I have said, to bring all the organizations present in the gallery, but also to give the people at home who follow this with interest the opportunity to be involved. Then there's the safety analysis. When we talk about what is possible at Schiphol Airport, safety is the basis. Then we start with the OVV report and the other reports that you can involve. We are, of course, still waiting for Schiphol's environmental impact report. As you know, Schiphol itself is at the point of delivering this in good time, because they are the initiators. I still have good hope that we will get that at least before the summer, so that we can take the route forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u166	Mr. Graus, I'd like to see if the minister's done with her general introduction. Almost, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u167	Yeah, pretty much. I'm going into the details around Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u168	Yes, I'll go to Mr. Graus first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u169	Mr President, this may be a point of order. I myself have requested the debates that have been brought together. I have also really asked for room to be provided for road safety, air traffic safety, flight safety. There will be no debate. There will be a general consultation, that is not a debate. This is a plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u170	That is also a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u171	Okay, but that's what we call a general consultation. This is what we call a debate. I've been asking questions about the O.V.V. I really think that's the most important thing, just like the Minister. I do want those questions answered, because I just want to know now. I'm not gonna wait weeks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u172	I will do my utmost to answer all the questions put by Mr Graus. That's always my intention. Only, you have agreed together that there will be a general consultation on flight safety in which we can discuss together all the reports involved. So I look forward to that, but I shall now try to answer the questions at this point as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u173	I asked a question because you say you will issue an aviation note by 2020. I asked if you would also consider looking at this broader mobility note. So also look at the high-speed line and how we can make the Netherlands mobile, and not just look at flight safety. You should look at it in its entirety, not at maximization, but at what is necessary and balanced. Is that something else you might consider?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u174	I actually wanted to come back to that later, but I can do it right now. The train story was in the block durable, but we just light it out. The coalition agreement also states that we want to create a mobility fund, and we are also abandoning the flows of individual modes of transport, water and rail, as it is now divided. In the whole story of the aviation note, of course, we are going to discuss all the issues that are important for the future of aviation. In addition, it is quite evident that it is important for which distances you can best fly. You mentioned different numbers and different distances for that. Together with the Secretary of State, we have instructed the KiM to consider what we could do to make the train more interesting for international traffic. Very soon, that will come to you. I talked to the Secretary of State about it this morning. Before the summer she comes with the international railway letter. We are going to make a very good assessment of this together. That's also the time to discuss how together. I will not be tempted now to deal specifically with the railway or aviation bottlenecks and the question of where the switching point is, and so on. It's good to get all the facts straight before we do. The Secretary of State and I are passionate about it. Fortunately, the sector is open to it both from the air and from the rail side. The good news is that Commissioner Bulc, whom I have just spoken, also thinks it is a very interesting idea. I can also say that I will do it all at once that we are also talking about Roosendaal, Antwerp and so on at the Flemish-Dutch table with Belgian colleagues. We also intend to start something like this with North Rhine-Westphalia, which deals with connections with Germany. We are of course very interested not only in the north side, to Berlin, but also in the connections Venlo-Düsseldorf and Heerlen-Aachen. We want all these connections, where they're already there, maxed out. We are also, of course, looking at whether we could better map connections on the high-speed network outside the Netherlands in other ways, by branching out well. So we're also looking at the digitization and the tickets. The whole stuff is to a large extent shown in the international train letter of colleague Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u175	Before I give the floor to Mrs Kröger, I say that we are using the same number of interruptions as we agreed on in the first term of the Chamber. Let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u176	It is very positive to hear that the train is seen as an important part of international mobility. I think that is exactly the shift that is needed, where we are talking about how we are going to look at international accessibility with a mobility fund within the Netherlands. It is simply about accessibility, rather than about mobility. I have a question about that. The Minister mentions a very large number of things that end up in that international train letter. But in both my contribution and my colleague's contribution, it was specifically a question of making the Aviation Paper 2020-2040 a accessibility note, to focus on accessibility in the analyses, such as the SMEA, which has just been shared with the Chamber, and to see what can be done by train.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u177	I have also tried to tell Mrs Van Brenk that the aviation bill is focused on aviation. Of course, this also includes the considerations when you opt for aviation and when you opt for the train. I would like the broader mobility story to be linked to the Mobility Fund and the discussion we are having there. There is the general story, and in the Aviation Note you zoom in on the specific future of aviation, with all other aspects for that sector. These are aspects of sustainability and safety, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u178	But aviation is not part of the Mobility Fund. In it are the trade-offs between asphalt and rail. But the question is to make an overall accessibility note 2020-2040 before you shoot into the details of the Aviation Note. The question is: how do we keep the Netherlands accessible and what resources do we use to achieve this? You can then work out this in detail in an aviation section and a section of trains. But it is therefore an overarching study.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u179	Mrs Kröger says that aviation is not part of the mobility fund. But of course it is about mobility. The general consideration is: how do you keep the Netherlands accessible? This is also about the word'mobility'. Of course, aviation is also a part of that. So there's a general consideration in it. Of course you have a separate piece for the water, a separate piece for the railroad and a separate piece for aviation. It comes together throughout the mobility policy. Look at the example of Schiphol, which we are talking about now. Soon we won't be talking about a separate piece for the road and a separate piece for the railroad. Water is less important there anyway. Soon we'll be talking about how to solve the accessibility around Schiphol? Then, suddenly, aviation is part of it, in the whole of the policy. You are looking at bottlenecks and no longer at individual mobility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u180	I don't know if the Minister has answered all the questions surrounding the track now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u181	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u182	Is she gonna come back to that in a block? I had a specific question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u183	Actually, I was way through it, so let's do it now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u184	Yeah? It has to do with this coherence, because everyone says: within Europe...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u185	Before you go any further, the Minister just indicated which subjects are being discussed. She said the questions of MPs will be coming soon. If we allow this question now, that means that all Members of Parliament would like to see their questions answered now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u186	Well, then I haven't exactly been speaking very well, Mr. Chairman. I have said that at the end there will be a number of questions from the Members of Parliament. But I would like to answer the questions of the Members of Parliament who belong to the cubes in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u187	Fine. You're part of the block, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u188	It's nice to be part of something. I would like to return to the public debate on flights within Europe, whether London or Paris. I have already said in my contribution that these are 6 million passengers on an annual basis. If you translate that into the train, it's twenty long trains a day on the track. How are we going to answer the question whether the train is a real alternative to all those flights to Paris and London? Otherwise, it will remain somewhere above the market. Where does the Minister say that's gonna end up? We're talking about about 50,000 moves anyway. If that were realistic, how much would it cost? It creates 50,000 new moves. Of course, that's very black and white and charged, but I'd like it to land somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u189	Again, I cannot anticipate too much the content of my colleague's international railway letter. But, of course, it is going to look at what is realistic and feasible and what can be done. I think it is a good thing that it is precisely in that note that the possibilities are mapped out. You are right: it is not the case that the railways can solve things very quickly and in the short term and that this is all easy. Because wherever we talk about ultra-fine dust and noise in aviation, the trains also talk about noise, but also about vibrations, for example. That's another problem that doesn't affect aircraft. So it's not like you can say, well, the problem in aviation is complicated, but it's very easy to solve by rail. That is not the case, but we want to see where you can speed up and contribute to a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u190	Is my conclusion that this exploration of what is possible in the long run will be reflected in that railroad letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u191	I don't think it's gonna be fully filled out yet. However, I do not need to speak too much for my colleague. I can simply assure you, as she assured me, that letter will be sent to the Chamber before the summer. I think it would be wise for you to talk to her specifically about the track details.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u192	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u193	Following on from the previous speakers, I would like to say the following. If twenty trains to London solve a major aviation problem, it is, of course, worth looking at. Of course, it has not been resolved one-on-one; perhaps that is why the question to the Minister of Finance to see what he can raise cheaply in capital to invest 14 billion in it. But it does suggest that you should not look at these aspects separately. Hence the question: come up with an integrated accessibility note, if necessary as an umbrella under which these different elements stand. 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna miss the whole equation. And that is what a number of parties in this Chamber are asking for. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u194	We're actually doing that already, and I'm always trying to indicate that because we're trying to bring all the interests within the MIRT system. We're gonna make another change in that. Where at the MIRT we are still reasoning in the tubes of the different modalities, we are going to release this financially from 2030. But before that, the whole process has already started on how to make the transition from modality to mobility. That's what your integral consideration is about. So I suggest that you address us to that when we discuss the approach of the Mobility Fund. For it is really explicitly the intention that we should make that full assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u195	I think that's a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u196	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u197	Well, let's hold on to that then. Oh, another interruption lost!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u198	No, I don't count that one. That's lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u199	I would have stuck with the fact that we are still waiting for the environmental impact assessment of Schiphol. If that whole factual basis is ready, then the Schiphol Environment Council can also advise me on this after the summer recess. Current issues that are still part of this phase are, of course, the implementation of the OVV recommendations; I have just told you that we are also discussing them in detail. Maintaining anticipation naturally plays a role. I would like to speak about a robust framework for the distribution of slots. Living and flying is an important file. And there is, of course, selectivity policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u200	It's a very clear question. The environmental impact assessment for Schiphol is very interesting. It will come in the summer or after the summer and we will discuss it and study it carefully. First of all, it must be flawless. That's important. Secondly, can we also rely on the fact that the environmental gains that have been made since the entry into the Alders agreement have been placed there somewhere? Or do we get to see that in a separate letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u201	First of all, we are still waiting for this environmental impact assessment. Mr Dijkstra says: it must be flawless. I very much endorse that. So we will also make sure that we do the same as we did at Lelystad: a check and a double check, and then a peer review to see if the whole system works properly. So we will look very carefully and carefully at that. Of course, it is also up to the sector to report to us what environmental benefits they think they have made or not. So they will have to show that to us themselves. Then I'll still try to ask the questions... Well, that's kind of annoying, Mr. Graus isn't here right now that I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u202	Yes, he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u203	Oh, well, it's hidden! I would like to emphasise once again, also in the direction of Mr Graus, that the safety of aviation, the safety of Schiphol and the environment is really number one for me. In the debate on 21 February, we also discussed my ambition and approach. You have also seen that the OVV responded at the end of April to the way in which the recommendations on safety at Schiphol Airport are followed, and you have received my response again. That general consultation is a debate, I think, is scheduled for 3 July. I will also send you the appreciation of the Ministry of the Integrated Safety Analysis Schiphol carried out by the NLR and To70's research into the effectiveness of external security policy before that consultation. I can also assure you that I will also regularly inform you about the implementation of these OVV recommendations, because you asked: how often and how will the Chamber be informed? In any case, we are going to discuss it extensively in general consultation on 3 July. I have also recently promised that you will be given an annual state of safety. That seems to me to be the next opportunity to discuss this further. I hope, then, that I have been able to answer a great deal of Mr Graus's questions. Mrs Van Brenk asked why General Aviation does not count in the number of aircraft movements? In fact, General Aviation does not count in the number of aircraft movements at Schiphol Airport, which applies only to trade, but it does count for noise standards. It is therefore not the case that, if it is not commercial trade, it can be flown. It must all fit within the noise standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u204	That's good. In the light of the motion for a resolution adopted on the broader definition of "obstacle," can the Minister promise that these broad standards, which we are still informed of, will apply to all aircraft movements once they are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u205	Yeah, when you're talking about "hinder," that's about the total, just like now when you're talking about sound, it's about the total. Otherwise, it doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u206	Okay, great!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u207	Then there is the question of anticipating enforcement at Schiphol Airport, which Mr Amhaouch has also asked questions about. I think it is extremely important to legalise this new system of standards and enforcement as soon as possible. For that, it is necessary again, I was just talking about the fact that the E.R. of Schiphol is quickly completed. So I hope that we will get it before the summer, because then we can get started as soon as possible to start that trajectory. Then we can also formally maintain, where we now maintain anticipatingly. So it is not true that there is no control at all now and that everything is allowed. The old system has been replaced, in advance, by the new system of standards and enforcement. In 2015 or '16, your Chamber said: we adopt this law and we think this is an improvement, including for residents. Of course, this new system of standards and enforcement is being tested. So if it fits in there, you don't have to be a enforcer. That's the way you should see it. Then the ultra-fine dust.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u208	I had asked another question about anticipating enforcement. A professor of public economic law from Utrecht, Annetje Ottow, said that you could actually call it "non-maintain," because at least you don't formally maintain, anticipating new regulations. For residents, they have this feeling: there are agreements made with us and if we feel they are broken, we can't go anywhere. Of course, you should put an end to that situation as soon as possible. That is why I asked you whether you are in favour of anchoring the hard agreements that are made with residents, where this is desirable in the eyes of those residents, and of ensuring that there is no situation with a legal vacuum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u209	I think Mr Paternotte is quite right that you want to avoid that. So if we'd had that E.R. Schiphol and other parts before, this situation wouldn't have arisen. I don't think anyone's happy about that, but all we can do now is fix it as soon as the E.R. Schiphol is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u210	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u211	Then the ultra-fine dust. I can see Mrs Kröger walking to the interrupting microphone, so that's convenient. It has proposed that there should be clarity about ultra-fine dust before a decision is taken on growth at Schiphol. As you know, RIVM is currently carrying out a research programme on this ultra-fine substance. You mentioned the precautionary principle. It is precisely this precautionary principle that has led to a long-term investigation into ultra-fine dust. There was an investigation in 2015. At that time, no causal link was shown that there would be a different situation with regard to human health in that area compared to other areas. So no link has been demonstrated, but to be sure for the longer term, the following decision was taken. In order to really rule it out, you can't do that if you don't find it at the time. That is happening now, and that is what we want to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u212	I shall come back to the previous point, Mr President, on anticipating enforcement. A distinction was made between formally maintaining and maintaining anticipating the oral questions. The Minister states here that she also thinks it is an undesirable situation that can not be formally enforced, but that we are concerned because that EIA has not yet been completed. The question remains: what can the Minister do at the moment to ensure and effectively maintain the legal status of residents? Because when this moment asks someone to enforce the ILT, he gets the answer that cannot be enforced, because it is not yet fixed in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u213	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u214	And it's the minister's job to make sure he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u215	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u216	What this minister can do about this at the moment is to speed up the process as much as possible so that it can be legally anchored. I need the E.R. of Schiphol for that. That's what I just reported. I therefore hope that we will have it as soon as possible, so that the situation of anticipating enforcement can be converted into formal enforcement as soon as possible. But I would like to repeat once again that your Chamber has also consciously chosen this law, which we are now anticipating, because it did lead to an improvement for residents. This law was passed with broad support. We still need this environmental impact assessment for the final piece of work. Still about measuring sound. There are several MPs... Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u217	You're a bit standard at the interrupting microphone, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u218	That's right. It's about particulate matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u219	Then wait a minute. No? The point about particulate matter has already been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u220	I was actually done with fine dust, or ultra-fine dust, which is what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u221	Okay, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u222	Let's talk about ultra-fine dust. The Minister says that in 2015 an investigation was carried out and that we are doing a very good job because, as a result of that investigation, long-term research has been decided. That's right. That is what happened with the previous ruler. Then we also asked questions about it, because from other research is already known, from abroad Los Angeles is often called "the influence of ultra-fine dust." He's not a bad guy. What I do not hear the Minister say now is that she is using this knowledge and perhaps using the precautionary principle on the basis of that knowledge. I'd like to hear some more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u223	I do not think we should repeat the debate that has already been held here in other places. I would point out that it could not be demonstrated in 2015. Or excluded, I should say, because of course you'd like to rule it out. It couldn't be ruled out. In order to do so, it was precisely a long-term investigation that was chosen. That's what's happening now. I think we should wait and see. Of course, we are also following all investigations in the rest of the world with interest, with great interest, but that has not so far led us to think that we should stop the investigation and suddenly do something else. We have not yet seen sufficient reason for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u224	Fourth question, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u225	The Minister himself gives exactly the reason why you need to apply the precautionary principle, because you cannot rule it out. Precisely because it is known that ultra fine dust really penetrates into everything, and you cannot rule it out, as the minister himself says, you should not want to continue instead. That's weird. Let's at least find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u226	But in order to rule it out, you must have been able to complete that investigation first. That's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u227	You are making all your interruptions in this way, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u228	But Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u229	I'll just give it to you. It's up to you, but then you'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u230	Thank you. In my view, this is an example of not answering the question, but it is up to you, Mr President. Once again, it's fine to continue investigating. That's not the point at all. All praise for that. But then you can't continue with expansion plans. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u231	I'm repeating myself. We follow everything that happens in the world to investigate. We are also in the lead in this respect, even with our long-term research. Also the GGD has not called the bell that we should stop now because the investigation would give cause for this. I think they'd report that to us if they didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u232	I asked a question. Either I haven't paid attention or you haven't answered it yet. We had asked why the Netherlands is so much lower... No. The WHO (World Health Organization) sets the standards for particulate matter many times lower than the Netherlands. My question to the Minister via the President was why that is and why we do not think that the standards of the WTO should apply to the Netherlands as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u233	Now Mrs Van Brenk comes very much into the field of air quality, which is the subject of my colleague Van Veldhoven. Of course, we have had more debates on the European fine dust standards that we have to meet and work hard with, and how they relate to WTO standards. We have the ambition to be the cleanest, but if you want to go into all the details about ultra-fine dust and fine dust, you should discuss it with Mr Van Veldhoven in the context of her air quality approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u234	I am disappointed because the Minister just said: we want to lead the way as the Netherlands. But actually, we're doing worse than what's being said around the world. There are standards that we should meet. The Netherlands has stretched these standards a little bit. That probably worked out better. And here are directors from both sides who have ambitions but let this ambition stand. I would very much like the Minister to pass on this question at least if she says that is not my answer, this is my colleague's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u235	I do not know in the words that we have no ambition. My colleague Van Veldhoven and I certainly do. I would also like to take away the impression that we would not meet the standards. We are working hard to solve the final problems we still have with regard to European air quality standards. That is quite complicated in some respects, as you know, but we are doing our utmost to ensure that this is resolved as soon as possible. I'll get to the sound. Several MPs have drawn attention to the difference between calculation and measurement. I thought Mr Amhaouch said it very nicely: if you have to start an airport somewhere, you have to calculate because there is nothing yet. Then you can't measure anything. That's always the start. So we do so wherever we start and we continue to calculate in order to be able to apply the legislation properly. In addition, measurements are also made at different places in the country, not only at the fixed enforcement points, but also at many other points. I am also very willing to return to your Chamber in a letter shortly, before the summer, on exactly how we intend to calculate and measure in the future. I think we're both gonna have to keep doing it. It's both necessary. Also with regard to Lelystad Airport I like to go with residents, provinces and municipalities to table to see what measurement can be a valuable addition to calculate. I'll come back to that later. Mrs Kröger has proposed to draw up a plan for an EIA on the environmental impact of aviation. I have just outlined that the Aviation Paper 2020-2040 is really going to be the future picture of aviation. We must take into account all the environmental impacts, especially the effects on climate, of course, but we still have to work out the precise way in which we have to do this. I would like to take into account the question of whether there will be a need for an EIA plan for this purpose. I don't know yet, but we'll take it into consideration in the Aviation Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u236	That Aviation Note covers 2020 to 2040. I've asked you once before, but maybe I can ask you now: why don't we take 2050 there? That year is in line with all these climate talks. This year is also in line with the European Commission's Flightpath 2050, which states that 90% of Europeans must be door-to-door within four hours. It also includes sustainability objectives, such as 90% reduction of nitrogen and 75% reduction of CO. Would it not be wiser if we had such a vision document, which will enter into force very quickly, in 2020, in line with this kind of European target for 2050, which can also provide a basis in this aviation world, which you should at least approach at European level, and preferably globally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u237	Mr Dijkstra surprises me with this suggestion, but I am not against it. If you find a practical connection to that, I have no objection to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u238	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u239	Then I was asked what I think of the investigation into sleep disturbance around Schiphol and what the plans for the night regime are. It is of course always good to map out and continue to monitor how much sleep disturbance actually occurs around Schiphol. The environmental impact report should also make this clear. In addition, of course, the Schiphol Environment Council will also advise on flying at night. I will take all this into account in the decision we are going to take. So I'm waiting for that advice. We have just had a discussion here about the 29,000 versus 32,000 night flights. We've recently assured that it certainly can't be more than 32,000. I now await the advice of the ORS on this matter. Mr Amhaouch has also specifically asked about the participation around Schiphol. I have already said that in June I will inform your Chamber in writing about how we intend to shape this new environmental management. I have also indicated that I use the existing structures for the short-term decisions, such as those last two requests for advice from Schiphol and Lelystad. I have just indicated to Mr Dijkstra that, if the ORS itself is open to this, I have no objection to inserting a broad consultation. For the rest, of course, as you know, the ORS is still being evaluated. This is done by themselves, by all the participants of the Environment Council. I have, of course, also taken note of the round table, which you held here in the Chamber. Whether it's something SER-like or a broader consultation, I think we'll take a good look at which of the useful suggestions that were in there, we can take with us. I will come back to that in June. The CDA has also asked whether we want to give municipalities the space to make their own decisions about building, even if that is close to Schiphol. This, too, concerns a complex balance of interests between living and flying. This is also the subject of one of those two requests for opinions from the Environment Council, but we also need to look closely at what the OVV report has said about it. It is therefore important to weigh that against each other. I therefore await the advice of the ORS in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u240	I know it's a complex matter in the current situation. In fact, we make demands on the number of obstructed homes. That number must be limited in those contours, so you don't want to build, because every home that comes with it is one too many. But in the future, you should let go of the tension field and ask yourself what the right incentives are to give a municipality the space to rebuild without a penalty being imposed on an airline or in this case an airport, which does comply with those obligations and restrictions. Will the Minister take that thought with him to the Aeronautics Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u241	I am prepared to take any thought with me to the Aviation Note, because that is where we need to balance our interests. The only thing I want to outline here is that the difference between living and flying is a complicated one. This concerns not only nuisance, noise or external safety, but also health. So we will always have to keep that total picture in mind. And until we make different considerations about this, the current legislation, which came into force not so long ago, namely on 1 January, applies. So that's what we're working with right now. And if, following the advice of the ORS or otherwise in the Aviation Note, a different path is taken, we will, of course, adapt our regulations to that. Then the distribution of slots. Many of you have raised them. Due to the scarcity at Schiphol Airport there is much to do about those slots. I also think it is very important that the system of final distribution is to make optimal use of the scarce capacity at Schiphol Airport and that the system is also robust and transparent. The PVV has asked for the possibility of trading slots, the so-called secondary slot trading. I've had a study conducted into the possible effects of closing trade. Appreciation is currently under way. There is, of course, a need for a good analysis because, as you probably know, only one country, the UK, is currently engaged in secondary closing trade and is still talking about it with the European Commission. But I'd be happy to inform your Chamber about that shortly. The SP requested the approval decision on the local rule at Schiphol Airport. Mr Laçin is right: the sector submitted such a local rule to me for approval in mid-February, which I have yet to take a decision on. Why haven't I already made that decision? This is because there appeared to be different views about the interpretation of that local rule and its feasibility, including from the European and our own slot coordinator. It is of course not workable if one and the same local rule is explained in different ways. So that turned out to be more complex than I thought. So we have actually sat down again with all those involved to see if we can give them a clear interpretation in which everyone recognizes themselves. Before the summer recess, I will inform your Chamber in writing of the exact way in which that journey has been carried out. I will therefore forward to the Chamber my decision on that local rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u242	I'd like to return to the secondary trading, the secondary closing. The Minister comes with an appreciation of the research that is being carried out on this subject. You can see that in London. For example, KLM sold a lock to Oman Air for that, I believe 72 million euros. It's a lot of money. There is nothing wrong with those Middle East carriers, but some of them, of course, have a lot of capital. I was wondering whether you could give an idea of this in the reply or in the appreciation. Exactly what effect has it had in London? What has been the shift from certain airlines to others? In this way we can assess whether this actually means more business traffic, which we naturally like to see, but also what it means for competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u243	I will see if we can give as good a picture as possible in the letter, but in general that will certainly be part of it, because, once again, it is also the only comparative material we have. If you want to see what the impact could be, then you look at that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u244	That local rule was approved by the sector in mid-February, so to speak, at Schiphol Airport, but I now hear from the Minister that there are different interpretations and that therefore there are again all parties at the table. That surprises me, because in my opinion it was clear what is meant by that local rule and how it should take place. The Minister's approval had only to come. I now hear that we will receive a letter on this before the summer recess, but the second question in my contribution was: can we introduce that rule for the winter season? I can fill in the answer myself, but I would like to hear from the Minister, now or in that letter, what impact it will have on freight transport if that local rule is not introduced in the winter season.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u245	That's what we'll mention in there. If I go into that now, I go into too much detail and we are still standing here in the middle of the night, but again, I will explain in the letter exactly how it went and why it took so much time. You thought at first: it seems clear to me. That's what I thought, but when the specialists look at it, it turns out to be a lot of explaining and it can't be. Well, well, I'm gonna explain it all to you in the letter. Many of you have considered the traffic distribution rule. This is an essential part of enabling Lelystad Airport to play the role for which the airport is intended. We're working on this rule. As you know, this measure is complex in content and legal terms and requires the approval of the European Commission. If you state that with the European Commission, it has six months to respond. We are currently talking to the European Commission because, of course, we want to ensure that if we make a notification, we will not get back to something like we had with the local rule, for example, that it is susceptible to many things and that it is not going to be approved by the European Commission. We're working on that. My commitment is to be able to make that notification to the European Commission before the summer recess. I shall, of course, inform your Chamber of these developments. Then there's another question about night flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u246	Let's talk about the order. I have asked a number of questions about the traffic distribution rule. Is it possible to answer them in writing? I understand that the Minister is only saying something in a general sense, but we already had this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u247	Shall we see if, if you still miss detailed things, we can take them with us in the bill of lading that comes your way for the general meeting of the Aviation Agency, which is about to take place? Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u248	It is good to hear that the Minister is already talking to the Commission about the traffic distribution rule. There is a certain time between notification and the answer to it. Are these calls now also helping to shorten that deadline? What is the assessment when the Commission will finally be able to react, so that we know if consent will be forthcoming?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u249	The Commission does not need to complete those six months, but I do not know whether our talks will help to speed things up. That depends a little on the European Commission's internal handling. But, of course, we are doing our best to ensure that we deliver a good product so that the European Commission can handle it quickly. Both GroenLinks and the SP talked about the transfer of night flights to Lelystad. Lelystad is, as we know, designed to strengthen Schiphol's mainport function and not to grow Schiphol unbridled, as some others have said. Particular attention has also been paid to reducing the number of night flights in the context of nuisance reduction from residents and drivers. It's just been memorized. This is also an important part of the consultation request. In addition, we also have operational safety and environmental restrictions at Schiphol Airport, which, of course, also affect this. Moving night flights from Schiphol to the day in Lelystad is probably not very attractive to airlines, because as you know they often want to be able to fly up and down twice in one day. That's not possible from Lelystad. So that doesn't seem very likely. Then I'm gonna get my ass kicked, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u250	On this particular point. The concern is that the relocation to Lelystad could lead to a multiple additional flights at Schiphol Airport. The Minister now states that this may not be the case. Can she guarantee that if one flight is transferred to Lelystad, this also means that only one lock, one flight at Schiphol Airport can be filled?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u251	What I can guarantee at the moment is the maximum number of slots we have agreed until 2021 and for the rest that the requirements of sound and so on are naturally met. Specifically for the night flights, we have set a ceiling of 32,000. Now the discussion seems to be going the other way. Until recently, the discussion focused mainly on the issue of disability, as residents of a night flight suffer much more nuisances. I do not believe so, but we are going to experience that the Schiphol Environment Council is going to advise that instead of those night flights, many more flights are going to take place during the day. Anyway, I'll wait for that advice. That's all I can say right now. I don't see a strategy behind this to make Schiphol grow huge in that way. It's a trade-off you have to make with each other. At night there is more nuisance. If the Schiphol Environment Council is going to advise "we'd rather have some more flights during the day, if those night flights then disappear," then that's a consideration we'll be faced with. But I'm not going to anticipate that. I'll wait for the advice first. Mr. Chairman. I come to sustainable aviation. As is well known, the Netherlands has committed itself to the Paris climate goals. We have recently discussed CORSIA extensively in the Chamber. I don't think we should do that again. As far as international aviation is concerned, we need to tackle climate objectives at international level. CORSIA and EU ETS are ideally suited for this. Within the framework of the national climate targets, I will organise the first sustainable aviation sub-table under the mobility table for the summer. I think you will be pleased that we are paying particular attention to aviation at our national mobility table. It is also my intention to agree jointly with the aviation sector to come up with innovations and take measures to reduce CO emissions. Some of you have asked questions about the flight tax. We are not abandoning this, as Mr Graus has asked us to do. In the coalition agreement, we have just stated that we are committed to European agreements on taxation. The Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Snel, is fanatical about getting a European tax. And, of course, we are also looking at the possibility of increasing the load on noisy and polluting aircraft. In the event of insufficient European results, that national flight tax will be foreseen in 2021. Of course, that's not going to be a copy-paste from the previous flight tax. Mr Graus does not have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u252	That was indeed one of the important points for my group. It's been abolished for a reason. The Germans are also advised to stop. That was in ten opinions to the German Government. The Belgians don't have them at all. So there's a completely uneven playing field right away. A lot of aviation people say: we have less difficulty with a level playing field. But there isn't even one. I have a question, Madam President, if I may. I really want to know what the consequences are. There's like 200 million to be collected. The Minister said a few months ago about this: if we don't have to, we're not going to do it. But in the meantime, her neighbor was rushing in on the preparations to get that 200 million in. That has nothing to do with the environment anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u253	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u254	I really want to see what the effect will be. At the time it appeared that I know how many tens of thousands of jobs were going to disappear and how many hundreds of millions would be involved. So I really want it re-examined. We shouldn't just do that... all over the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u255	I am firmly convinced that Mr Snel is not going to do anything just like that and will certainly not risk hundreds of thousands of jobs. I also understand that the Secretary of State will inform the Chamber further about this process before the summer. I'm coming up on biokerosin. This is an important development in promoting sustainability. There are also a number of initiatives under way by the government. For example, within BioPort Holland, several parties from the chain are looking at how the Netherlands can play a leading role in stimulating the use of sustainable biokerosin in aviation. As you know, IenW joined the KLM Corporate BioFuel Programme in 2016. On 19 April last, a motion by Mr Paternotte was adopted to include other ministries in the programme. I believe that you had adopted it on Wednesday, and on Friday immediately after that I informed colleagues in the Council of Ministers. I therefore assume that all other ministries will also join the Corporate BioFuel Programme, if they have not already done so. It is also my ambition to encourage more companies to participate. I note that an increasing group of companies is willing to do so in the context of corporate social responsibility. For example, you read yesterday in the newspaper that KLM in Sweden has also been successful in finding partners for that programme. As I have already told you, I will be sending a letter to the Chamber this year on progress and the results achieved in relation to sustainable aviation. So I hope to be able to do good business at that mobility table, at the sub-table aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u256	One last question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u257	Mr President, I understand. It's about this. Biofuels are now seen as a very big outcome for aviation. There are also plenty of reports that say: we can't do that at all; there aren't enough biofuels to meet all the needs, because we also want to eat, sail and generate energy differently. Can the Minister promise that, in her research on biofuels, perhaps in the Aviation Note, I understand that it will now be 2020-2050; I think that that is a good idea. It is a question of whether there are enough biofuels, what it costs to make them, and at the expense of what other choices this involves in terms of energy generation, nutrition and so on. Because the latter is what science is particularly concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u258	I had actually hoped to answer Mr Van Raan's question implicitly by talking about'sustainable biokerosin' and not just about 'biokerosin'. For me in that is actually the distinction. You are absolutely right: it is, of course, a consideration of whether it is not at the expense of food and whether there is any palm oil in it. We really are talking about sustainable biokerosin. In the context of the report on sustainable aviation which I am going to send you this year, and also at the aviation table, that aspect will obviously be taken into account, because we are not going to stop one hole from the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u259	The Minister talks about "sustainable biokerosin." They say "fried fat," don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u260	Yes. Chinese fries, that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u261	You mix kerosene with fry grease, and then you have another smell under your nose. But it's a serious question. Indeed, we still need to get more parties to join in. This time I am a little closer to Mr Van Raan; sometimes we get closer together, and sometimes we break up. What's the map look like? Because when I look now, I see that between 1% and 7% of sustainable biokerosin is available, depending on the airline. So we have to come up with a plan to create that need. Where do we see that again? In my opinion, the problem now is not to get enough participants, but to create enough sustainable biokerosin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u262	Of course, there are always two sides to it, because it also starts with creating the question. The moment companies see that there is demand for biokerosin, all kinds of creative ideas are emerging to produce that biokerosin in all possible ways. At the sub-table under the mobility table aviation, all these subjects and details are discussed, because it really does matter what kind of biokerosine it is. Whether it is frying fat or a completely different kind also matters for the percentage you can add. It can only be 50%. I propose that we address all these aspects in the letter on sustainable aviation which we will be sending to you this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u263	Very good. I saw Mr Elbers, CEO of KLM, last Sunday at Buitenhof. He was eager to use more biokerosin in the KLM devices. I think that is a very good development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u264	Sure. We hear in the Ministry that there are enough innovative companies that have all kinds of creative ideas to produce biokerosin in new, sustainable ways. So I think there might be some very nice developments coming towards us again. Mr Paternotte had also asked whether the Minister was prepared to work on the greening of Schiphol by reducing port charges for cleaner aircraft, by forming a leading group with like-minded airports and by promoting investment in cleaner aircraft. Of course in general I am of course very willing to work on a further greening of Schiphol. I have just indicated that we are also going to organise a sub-table for aviation in order to fill in the national challenges. Cleaner aircraft are, of course, a first objective. The Aviation Act also allows Schiphol to differentiate tariffs from the public and public interest. At landing and take-off rates, Schiphol is already making a distinction in weight and noise. Schiphol is currently considering whether the tariffs can be further differentiated on the basis of ecological criteria. We're talking to Schiphol about that. I shall be happy to bring to the attention of the House the broad shared wish, I would like to say, in your Chamber. I am also prepared, as I say to Mr Paternotte, to examine the cooperation with other European colleagues and their airports in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u265	I am also very much in favour of what Mr Paternotte is proposing, namely to see if you can differentiate it in such a way that you can get cleaner planes to Schiphol Airport. There is one point of interest and that is the position of KLM. KLM can't differentiate, because it always has to fly on Schiphol. That's home base. Other international companies may vary with types of aircraft. I'd like to pay attention to that. We must, of course, continue this process, but with due regard for KLM's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u266	I would very much like to say that we will, of course, look at the position of KLM in this whole. I'll take a look. This was the train, but I've already had it on the other block. Now I come to a very small folder for me Air France-KLM, because most of it belongs to colleague Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u267	Mrs Kröger, on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u268	I still have a final question on the block. Does the Minister believe that CO emissions from aviation should be reduced to and from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u269	We're doing the best we can for that. It is not for nothing that we hang a sub-table of aviation under the mobility table under the whole climate story. So we're going to see what we can achieve in the Netherlands. We are very ambitious to see what is realistic. The commitment is, of course, to achieve as little CO emissions as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u270	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u271	Dan Air France-KLM. Asked: are you going to reset the agreements between Air France and KLM insofar as they relate to your part of the policy? In March 2015, the then CEO of Air France, Janaillac, made important commitments, including the maintenance of KLM's financial management and the maintenance of the foundations and the state guarantees. Those points have been re-confirmed on several occasions. In our consultations with Air France-KLM, we continue to highlight the Dutch interests. As you know, I have spoken with my French colleague in transport, Mrs Elisabeth Borne. We were on the same page and agreed to keep each other informed of relevant developments. The rest can be answered by Mr Hoekstra. In this context, it has been asked whether the Minister of IenW can protect KLM's position through landing rights. The Dutch government does indeed grant landing rights to Dutch carriers on the basis of aviation agreements concluded by the Netherlands worldwide. For KLM, but also for Air France, these traffic rights are essential. Although they do not offer direct protection to KLM, they do make the Dutch government an important interlocutor towards Air France-KLM and the French government. We have also noticed that, because the contacts are very open and pleasant. As far as I am concerned, that was the Air France-KLM block, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u272	I think I speak on behalf of a very large part of the Chamber: I have read five points in my first term, as my colleague Dijkstra has done, which are not legally anchored. I'm not going to read them again. They're not real guarantees. They also call it a MoU: a memorandum of understanding. It's butter soft. I would like to explain that. I spent almost two and a half years on the De Wit Committee. Then we found out how buttery a MoU is in the financial world. It's nothing at all. I would ask, as Mr Dijkstra has done, for this to be legally well anchored, especially the five points we have mentioned. This is a little trouble. I really think it brings peace to the Chamber. So I would have liked to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u273	I can only repeat that we have a good conversation. Over the years, the agreements have not been repeatedly confirmed for nothing. If you want to make it a completely official journey, you will really find yourself in the waters of colleague Hoekstra. So I think he's best placed to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u274	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u275	I'm joining the Lelystad Airport block now, Chairman. We have talked about this so many times that I do not mention the general introduction, because it is well known here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u276	It's known, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u277	And when I look at the public gallery, it's known to everyone there. So I'm just going to go straight to the questions that have been asked. Mr Stoffer of the SGP has asked whether it is technically possible to fly higher on the old country. The agreement at the Alderstable was that the old country will be flown in at least 6,000 feet. This is also technically feasible almost everywhere. Depending on the flight distance from the airport it will be higher. Above the old country can be climbed further after the reclassification. Sometimes there is some confusion about the fact that we naturally take the worst case scenario into account in the reporting, so the lowest possible flight rate. But in practice, as I have already indicated, it will often be much higher. People should therefore bear in mind that the worst case scenario is mentioned in the report. As far as the low-fly routes are concerned, I have already said that, for me, it is a hard condition, which is given in the reclassification process, that there will be an end to long-term low-flying, as Mrs Kröger also described it. I have been confirmed by LVNL that this can be solved. I understand there are ideas in the Chamber for a hearing. I see Mr Paternotte nodding. I hope you do. There is also something to my mind if you, as a Chamber, get confirmation of it in a direct conversation with LVNL and do not just have to take my word for it or my blue eyes. They have assured me that it is possible, but it is good if you can ask all your technical questions directly again. I would very much like to support that, because I think it would be a good idea if you did. Then you can hear from the experts themselves exactly what it is like in practice on all these different points of detail. You can then get confirmation that the long-term low-flying is over as soon as the reclassification is there. Of course, you'll always have to descend at certain points, as you get closer to the airport, because you'll have to go down sometime. Of course, you can't fly high until the very last moment and then suddenly fall down. The consequence will be that there will be lower flights on certain parts, but that is not the point, I understand. It really is about staying under the Schiphol traffic for a long time; that really has to stop. How does the Minister ensure that flights on these routes are monitored and maintained? We're still working out how we're going to shape that. I'm going to ask the ILT to make a policy rule that will allow us to maintain on flying off those routes. That's a bit of a crazy term. "Make sure they fly the right routes," that's what I have to say. That's happening at other airports, too, so I think that's a good thing. Mrs. Kröger, was it someone else? As already stated, how can you ensure that agreements with residents of any kind can really be maintained? This is another one I asked the ILT to make a policy rule for, so you can enforce it. Is the Minister willing...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u278	You shouldn't look at the MPs too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u279	Well, if they're standing by the interrupting microphone like that, I know there's probably gonna be a question after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u280	Yes, but you're working on Lelystad Airport. I'd still like you to finish that block first. Mr Dijkstra and Mr Stoffer will then be given the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u281	Fine, then I'll move on. Is the Minister prepared to make an SMEA for 10,000 flight movements? Several MPs have asked for it. Research has been carried out into the economic impact of the development of Lelystad Airport in relation to the mainport Schiphol. On this basis, it has been concluded that the benefits outweigh the costs. Development towards 10,000 aircraft movements does not alter that conclusion. The temporary situation is a step towards achieving the final situation of 45,000 aircraft movements. Then the wind turbines. Together with my colleague from EZK, I am looking for solutions to shape both interests side by side. These solutions do not depend on the number of flight movements. Safety is the most important criterion. That is why we are working together to find a solution. An SME for 10,000 aircraft movements therefore has no added value. Does the Minister dare to review the actualisation of the EIA Lelystad against the European directive? That is what Mr Van Raan has asked for. The update of the EIA Lelystad complies with both European and national regulations. This has also been confirmed by the Commission for the m.e.r. with its review opinion on the update of the EIA. Follow all the Commission's recommendations for the m.e.r. For Lelystad? Yes. I have already indicated this in my letter to you. Has the final situation for Lelystad Airport been properly portrayed? Yeah, I'm sure of it. The Commission for the m.e.r. also concludes in its review opinion that the EIA contains all essential information on environmental impacts. Should it later become apparent that changes occur in the local loops, it will be assessed whether this has an impact on the environmental impacts identified. That was also stated by the committee, but then you talk about the future. Is an assessment made on the basis of the EIA, Mr Paternotte, for the damage compensation of companies in the vicinity of the airport etc.? It is possible to make a request for loss compensation as a result of the Airport Decision. Those requests will then be dealt with in accordance with the procedure in the Policy Rule on Miscompensation Infrastructure and Environment 2014; at that time it was still called that. In the context of this procedure, I shall decide whether, and if so to what extent, there is damage that is eligible for compensation. Are you going to do all the EIA studies again and examine all the environmental impacts? No, because all relevant environmental impacts are already reflected in the different EIA studies. In the case of Lelystad, the Commission has decided to grant aid to Lelystad. concluded that all these environmental impacts have been well identified so that they can be fully taken into account in the decision-making process. Now, within the sound room growth can be accommodated by quieter planes. The Party for Animals asked: shouldn't you also look at other aspects, for example numbers? As a general rule, this is also stated in the coalition agreement, which we are committed to curbing nuisances and less on controlling numbers. Airport decisions can also include more things than just sound rooms, for example, opening hours.... we have just had the discussion on night flights.. restricted areas or specific rules on the use of the airport. In addition, agreements can also be made on numbers. Lelystad is an example of this, because because of all the unrest that had arisen or that 45,000 would not be 60,000 or maybe even 100,000, I have promised to set that maximum of 45,000 in the airport decision. How is the monitoring programme organised? Do municipalities have to pay for that themselves? Why have no agreements been reached with provinces on monitoring and zero measurements? As agreed at the Alderstable and also laid down in the current airport decision, a monitoring programme is being prepared. That's not the responsibility of the Empire. The province of Flevoland coordinates this, together with the airport. The programme must also be ready for the opening of the airport. A part of the programme is that noise measurement points are set up in surrounding municipalities. That is a responsibility of the municipalities themselves. It is preferable for the old country, as it is called, to join the monitoring programme on the basis of the same distribution of responsibilities. My ministry will consult with the regions concerned in the coming period on how best to complete that evaluation and monitoring programme. Mr Bruins asked whether exclusive cargo flights could be excluded in the Lelystad airport decision. It can't be. Under regulations you cannot exclude a specific traffic. Of course, I understand why he's asking this. Lelystad Airport is of course meant for holiday traffic and not for freight traffic. And to reassure you, and I have also informed you in a letter: it is not possible either. There are operational restrictions, such as the runway length of the airport, which simply does not offer cargo handling facilities. So it's not at Lelystad Airport. How is the situation going? I am still looking in the direction of Mr Bruins and also a little bit at Mrs Kröger at Zwolle-Stadshagen by extending the district towards the northwest? At Stadshagen we were able to improve the temporary situation up to 10,000 flights. At crossroads it can now be at 5,000 feet instead of at 3,000 feet. That is an improvement which we all welcome. This relates to the previously agreed B+ area. I have just reminded you once again: after the redeployment of airspace, the connecting routes must be fitted higher. After the reclassification, of course, we also know whether the connecting routes themselves are going to change. If that is the case, we also need to look again at how this can best be linked to the B+ area. So I am obviously seriously considering the positive possibilities of the airspace review for the B+ area and therefore for Zwolle as well. Can you guarantee gliding over the Vechtdal during the reclassification? I am glad that a glide over the Vechtdal has already proved possible, from Germany over the Lemelerveld direction Zwolle. I don't have to explain what it is here. In the airspace review, I would like to try to keep gliders as much as possible for Lelystad and, preferably, to extend them. What are you going to do to improve the situation for Wezep and when will that become clearer? The SGP has also asked for this. In my letter of 21 February, I indicated that LVNL and CLSK see opportunities for improvement, so that built-up areas can be more relieved. However, since there are different choices to be made, this will be taken up in the short term in good consultation with relevant municipalities. In the meantime, there has also been consultations with Oldebroek and there will be discussions with the relevant municipalities this month on how to shape this. If you would like to investigate, for example, ChristenUnion and GroenLinks, whether the left-hand route towards the North Sea can be the preferred route, so that as few planes as possible cross the Veluwe. No, you didn't ask? Excuse me. Mr Bruins asked, I remember. This option has already been developed and explored in the consultation round. LVNL and CLSK addressed this option in their reporting in February. For the sake of clarity, I would like to refer to that again. If we don't, we're gonna repeat ourselves. Will the Minister include the 10,000 flight movements as a maximum in the airport decision? Several people have asked about that. Mr Bruins, as well as others, would like to know about the maximum number of flight movements in the temporary situation. I can tell you that the maximum number of 10,000 flight movements for large commercial trade comes from operational restrictions. As long as airspace has not been reorganised, it simply cannot be dealt with. So as far as I'm concerned, it's obvious: there's just a limit; it can't be anymore. You don't have to worry about that either. The criteria on the altitude of the routes to be flown will be laid down in the Air Traffic Services Scheme. They will also be included in the Aviation Guide. So that's where all the details about the routes come in. Where is it established that the routes will go up after the airspace review? Can an analysis of LVNL be shared which states that it is actually possible? I have just said that LVNL and CLSK have assured me that. I hope that they will also be able to reassure you if you can ask them directly about this in a hearing. It is also important to recall that colocation with military air traffic control is a first important step. They have also recently merged the training centre and the training centre. I think important steps have already been taken. How can the Minister call these low-fly routes "exceptional"? I meant to say they're temporary in nature. In this sense, it is therefore an exception, because it does not apply in the long term. When was it known that there would be long-term low-flying routes? For the summer of 2017, it became clear that the temporary connecting routes could not always be climbed as a result of current airspace restrictions. Your Chamber was informed of this on 26 June 2017. Then I guess I answered all the detailed questions about Lelystad Airport, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u282	That's good. I shall go first to Mr Dijkstra, because I have sent him away a little non-verbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In general, I think it's good news. At least there are improvements to what we had before. Compliments for that. I hope that this will also be the result of the year's postponement, and we have put care first. Still, we have a problem. In January or February we had an AO Aviation. The day before, the CEO of LVNL, Mr Van Dorst, was there and he said: I cannot guarantee it. The next day, Minister, you had to remove the doubt. But then there are also people who still feel worried. Now you say: they are tough conditions. However, a number of people, including drivers from the Zwolle and Wezep region, say: I want guarantees; I want it in black and white, because I do not believe you on your beautiful blue eyes. How clever is it now to put these kinds of guarantees in black and white, knowing that there will be a total reclassification of airspace? Everyone can move their own village forward, but of course there are more. How wise is it now to lay these guarantees here in black and white? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u284	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u285	Or do you say that my guarantees should be accepted for what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u286	I've said it before, and you're repeating it now. I'm gonna give it to you as a hard-core condition. LVNL or anyone else can't get around that. That's the assignment they're getting. If you talk to LVNL and CLSK together, I hope they can explain to you and show you how that works. But the fact that it's gonna happen must be beyond question anyway. Then you can also get insight into how they're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u287	Then I do hope that we, as a Chamber, will do so quickly, in order to get that confirmation again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u288	My point is somewhat in line with what Mr Dijkstra said. We have indicated that our ideal is to reconfigure the airspace and then open Lelystad. Mr Dijkstra is right: each can mention his own place where he has been. But what if that opens up and it doesn't manage to get into that altitude? The Minister says it's gonna work. I'm just taking that question to the hearing that's coming up soon, because this won't be the last time we talk about this. But for us, it's really something we want a guarantee on. That's one. The second point is monitoring. You indicate that the monitor program will be there. It is directed by the province of Flevoland, if I understand correctly. I believe that in the other provinces, Overijssel, Gelderland, the municipalities are involved. It's who's paying for it that matters to me. For example, are municipalities with 20 000 inhabitants or even less financially liable to carry out this monitoring for something they do not want at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u289	That's actually something the Ministry doesn't stand for. If you look at how it happens elsewhere, it's mainly up to the airport. So I think the province of Flevoland is getting that in good coordination with Lelystad Airport. And I think it's wise for provinces and municipalities to join in, because that's how it happens everywhere. If you look at the measurement points at Eindhoven Airport, then the airport is also the one that provides it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u290	So you say that in principle the airport is financially guaranteed and that it cannot be the case that individual municipalities of a relatively small size are held financially liable to finance this type of monitoring itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u291	Well, of course, a comprehensive plan for that monitoring will have to be drawn up in good consultation. Of course, it can't be that every individual citizen says "I want a measuring pole in my garden" and that Lelystad Airport will have to reimburse it. A sensible plan will have to be drawn up jointly and then the airport will have to be set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u292	That plan's gonna be fine. If there is a plan that has been drawn up together in all reasonable ways, isn't financing something for individual municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u293	I have to take a swing at the arm, because it depends on whether that individual municipality thinks it should do something extra or that it fits into the overall plan. I also know examples, for example in sound screens, where Rijkswaterstaat meets the legal requirements, but municipalities that want screens slightly higher or want to have something different arranged and then pay a little extra. It is therefore up to the municipalities to tell themselves whether they want something more and to bear the costs themselves. But again, I don't want to anticipate that too much. I have every confidence that provinces and municipalities can make good agreements in cooperation with the airport. Well, that worked elsewhere, too, so why wouldn't it work here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u294	Good. For the time being, I'm assuming that we'll sort of understand each other. If it isn't, we'll get back to that later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u295	I would like to start with the guarantee that the Minister now gives us on the low-fly routes and the reclassification of airspace. Mr Dijkstra also referred to it. The latest information we have as a Chamber on this matter is that LVNL has said that it cannot give any guarantee. We are almost four months away and we are now getting information from the Minister that there is a guarantee. I think that's a weird thing to do. Then why weren't we informed about this earlier? How can the Minister give us that guarantee when LVLN has not informed us in the last four months?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u296	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u297	It was more of a remark, I think, but the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u298	It was a very good question, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u299	There was a "why?" In, so I think it was a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u300	Exactly. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u301	The essential question behind this is as follows. The Minister now says it's a tough condition. In short, LVNL will take care of it, otherwise it will be ready for the minister. Is it really the deal we make here that if it doesn't work out, Lelystad Airport will just be shut down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u302	Mr Laçin is now taking very big steps. In the letter of 21 February, I also stated that it is a prerequisite I am giving. And that's a tough condition. I have said this in several places in the media. That's what I said back then. Mr Van Dorst later expressed himself differently in other places and also said that it should not have been so black and white in the newspaper. I think it would be wise for you to hear that from him, too, so I can stress once again that it is very good if you talk to LVNL yourself. But we said that on all the residents' committees. I think I've been to five, six places in the country, where we've talked to drivers and residents. Mr Van Avermaete of LVNL was often present. Mr Van Avermaete also received the question and he has been able to deal with this regularly, hopefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u303	I notice that as the debate continues, the interruptions are also getting longer. I don't know if there's any connection, but I'd really like to call on you to ask short questions. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u304	We would indeed like to hear it from LVNL itself. I would like to continue on another very important point, namely ultra-fine dust. I heard about the Schiphol section. I deliberately waited until the Lelystad part about ultra-fine dust. I hear the Minister over and over calling the debate health a number of times and saying that there are investigations going on about ultra-fine dust and its consequences...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u305	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u306	...and we'll have to wait and see. But I have here a research published on 25 April by an international research team, Erasmus MC and ISGlobal. They've been investigating the effects of ultra-fine dust. It says very simply: we already know that it is bad for lungs and hearts, and we now know that it is bad for unborn children. It's in that investigation I have here on my phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u307	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u308	The question is: how can the Minister claim here that all environmental and health effects have been taken into account in the EIA, while a letter of fire has been sent to this minister with 26 signatories, who say that 90% of the consequences have not been taken into account, including ultra-fine dust and particulate matter? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u309	I'm really gonna interrupt you if the interruptions are too long. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u310	We have laws and regulations on what an environmental impact assessment must comply with. All the environmental impacts required have been taken into account in the environmental impact assessment. Of particular ultra-fine dust, I have indicated to you that we do not yet know the full details. There's still research going on. I indicated to you that there was an investigation in 2015. There was no direct connection at the time, but you couldn't rule it out either. In order to be sure, therefore, it has been deliberately chosen to have a long-term, five-year investigation carried out by the GGD, in order to rule it out. So I think we are doing this very carefully. I don't know any similar studies from other airports either, so I think we're ahead here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u311	We are very different in that regard. As I said, on April 25, a few weeks ago, just a study was published stating that ultra-fine dust is bad for our health. I'm not saying that, that's what researchers say, an international research team. I am therefore surprised that the Minister says here: we are doing research. No, there's been research. The GGD can also do research; that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u312	I would like to assure Mr Laçin that we will look again at exactly what research he is referring to here and whether he has taken that research with him. If we change our minds, I'll let you know. But I do not see any reason to change course at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u313	I hadn't actually asked my question yet. I was interrupted by the Minister. But at the break, I was given a promise. That's fine with me; that's nicely taken care of. But the question I asked was therefore also correct whether the Minister is prepared to take this with him for Lelystad but also for the environmental impact assessments that are to come, because this makes a substantial difference for how an EIA can work out, including for Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u314	Will you hand over your cell phone, Mr. Laçin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u315	I'll send the link right through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u316	I'll look into that with interest. Of course, we have a system of environmental impact assessments for many projects in this country. If you think that perhaps something else should be added to that for very good reasons, then we should discuss it with each other. But I am dealing here with the current legislation on environmental impact assessments. We comply with that in all respects. We even lead the way and contribute to new research into how you would like to deal with ultra-fine dust in the future. I have just promised that if there is a new investigation that we have not taken, we will look into it. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u317	I thank the Minister for the long list of quick, clear answers at the end. I have another question on two points, and I need some clarification. So those are two interruptions, if you will allow me, Mr President. The first question is about the route to the left, about the IJsselmeer, the Kop van Noord-Holland and the North Sea, or the London route. In her reply, the Minister refers to what was said earlier in her letter. It has been said that it is a serious option. I am very pleased with that, but what we do not know is to what extent using that option can also lead to a reduction of the noise load on and around the Veluwe, i.e. the route to the right. So how many times could you fly to the left and that helps to reduce noise pollution on the Veluwe? Is that also a serious exit route?You can go up faster, but you can make a bit more kilometers of it when it comes to kerosene consumption, for example? In short, is the Minister prepared to examine how and to what extent this route can help to reduce noise levels on and around the Veluwe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u318	Then I haven't been entirely clear about that. I said that this was considered as a serious option, but I referred briefly to the reaction to the input given in the consultation round. For the sake of completeness, I'll give you a little more coloring. The described handling is unfortunately not possible, because one requirement is that Lelystad be unlocked as immediately as possible in all directions. Dealing with the routes to the south via North Holland means: far-off, extra kerosene and emissions, and noise pollution over longer distances than necessary. In addition, other municipalities or municipalities will be required to take part in the project. residents are faced with aircraft on routes that, in some cases, fly at lower altitudes than the 9,000 feet, as is the case south of the Veluwe. Finally, there is also limited capacity on the routes towards the North Sea, due to the location of Schiphol. So that's actually the total picture, which makes it not such a good option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u319	That doesn't make me happy. Then I will go to my second topic, Mr President, which is to record the 10,000 flight movements in the Lelystad Airport Decision. Why do I bring that up? The Minister has already said that I would like to record the 45,000. Then why the 10,000? Because it is not clear to me in the course of this process when we can say: yes, now the airspace has been revised. The answers have shown that the airspace review is not just one big bang or stroke, but an organic process: one step at a time the airspace is being revised. That is already happening, there are improvements already and it is getting better and better. So for me it is no longer clear when the point has come that airspace has been revised. You can only get up to 10,000 right now. But at some point you can get above 10,000 in that step-by-step process. I think it is important that we all mark that moment: now, apparently, airspace has been revised so far that more than 10,000 flight movements are possible, and so those planes should also go up. Can the Minister respond to the remark that it is important for the marking of airspace being revised or not to be used to record the 10,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u320	I would actually like to turn it around, because we have always indicated that it should not be more than 10,000 until it has been revised. At the time when we would like to go over 10,000 together, we must therefore also agree that the reclassification has been completed and that this is the status quo that we are going to have. Not that you will never be able to change anything in the future, but we will have to establish with each other "this is it now." That can only be the moment that you set that growth path from 10,000 to 45,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u321	Is it true that I also hear the Minister say that as soon as there are more than 10,000 flight movements, those planes will also fly higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u322	Not in that order. I have also indicated to you that as long as the airspace has not been redistributed, you simply cannot lose more than 10,000. So it's just not operational. We need to get that reclassification done, because if you don't get it done, you're never gonna get more than 10,000 flight movements, because you just can't get rid of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u323	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u324	Yeah, finally. The point is that it is not clear when airspace has been revised, because it is an organic step-by-step process. We can't say: look, now it's April 13, 2023, it's been revised. That's my point. We don't know when we're going to exceed 10,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u325	We will, of course, get to work as quickly as possible on the reclassification of airspace. If your concern is that in a year and a half we would say "it has already been reorganised, now we can reach 10,000," then I can reassure you, because we have set the growth path from 4 to 7 to 10. That 10 is also the maximum. In addition, we have also promised the residents' group under Mr Ter Kuile that we will carry out an evaluation in between of 7 000 flights as to whether the routes are going well and so on. So I guess you really don't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u326	I understand the Minister's answers very well. I also fully trust the Minister. What I think is playing with the people who live under the flight routes is that they too trust you, but of course look at the government. As Mr Dijkstra said, the government on the Lelystad Airport file has failed badly. That's why they say, if you say 10,000, we'd like to hold on. Contrary to what you're saying, it can't be more than 10,000. It is, of course, a complicated story to say that the current airspace can handle exactly 10,000 flight movements and not 10.001. Probably not. If we can be very clear about this in itself, because it can no longer be possible, is it not also good to take the step to record that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u327	I see people looking a little sighing. I said I'm gonna capture the 45,000 flight movements. I'd be happy to promise the Chamber to look, if you'll allow me, if I can record that 10,000 somewhere else in a certain way. I'd be happy to promise you that and report to you for an AO Aviation how we could make it clear and record that it's only gonna be 10,000. If that makes everyone very happy and sees that as added value, I would like to do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u328	Thank you. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u329	Thank you very much. The question I had actually come up with. It was about the disadvantage compensation. We know, of course, that the airport decision could have some indirect effects. For example, we received a whole report from the recreational entrepreneurs at the Veluwe. At least we know that there are some direct effects, for example for the flight schools at Lelystad, which would then have to go to Teuge. My question is for a moment, also because the Minister of Finance is sitting next to the Minister, whether we have included it in the business case, or can the Minister expect a small extra bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u330	I must remain guilty for a moment if a certain amount is charged in the business case. I can see that in the distance no is being shaken, but if you will allow it, I will take it for the second term so that I can give a very precise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u331	We had asked a question about the Lelystad Environmental Impact Assessment, because in our view it is very special that you can already make statements now when that airspace has not yet been reorganised and you do not yet know what the actual levels of noise are and the like. I can hear the Minister reply to that somewhat laconically. My question was literally: is that MER cutting wood or are we now working on air castles, as we do not know what the real future will be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u332	If Mrs Van Brenk says that I'm doing something easy about that, that's absolutely not my intention. I take this environmental impact assessment extremely seriously, so seriously that we have put a great deal of weight on it. Before we knew what the Commission's opinion was on the M.E.R. We have said that this is so difficult for us that we will follow up on it. Luckily, the Commission has for m.e.r. reported that all requirements have been met, that the errors have been corrected and that the reporting is correct. I'm just happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u333	Mrs Kröger, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps as a point of order: in a debate involving such an incredible scope as Schiphol and Lelystad, six interruptions are very few.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u335	That's not true at all. No way. You have had seven minutes of speaking time and plenty of time to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u336	It's mostly about asking the Minister, but okay. In the end, the key question remains the following. I actually hear from almost all the groups in the Chamber that low-flying is undesirable. I hear the Minister say: it is actually undesirable. We're going to allow an undesirable situation. Then the big question remains: what are these 10,000 flights worth? What do these 10,000 flights at Lelystad Airport yield, given the incredible social costs, namely a great deal of burden for a lot of people? I would very much like to hear the Minister say that I have called it an SME; call it a business case in writing what it produces, which means that it takes on the political and social costs of low-flying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u337	We have discussed this several times in all the debates we have had about Lelystad Airport. The airport's gotta start sometime. You don't start at once with 45,000 flight movements, so there's got to be an ingrowth path anyway. Investments have been made. There are countless arguments for going there as quickly as possible. We also talked about Schiphol at the beginning of the afternoon. Schiphol's almost at the border. You can say that 10,000 flights may not be a lot, but they're 10,000 again. Especially if that is going to give a place in the peak hours on those important places where you can lose mainport bound traffic, then they are very important slots that you are glad to see on Lelystad. Anyway, I think we've exchanged these arguments a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u338	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u339	Then I have my last block. That's the other block. There is still a very large subject that many of you have talked about, namely the airport at sea. I have already responded to that earlier when that proposal came my way in the sense that I would like to say it carefully, and I am a little sceptical about it. But I also indicated that, of course, I am open to new insights. So I would actually like to introduce to you the following. In the context of the Aviation Note, in which we will define the future of aviation in the Netherlands in a broad sense, we will take the question with us, as Mr Paternotte described it, and we will look with the current state of the art at what has changed compared to when the previous research was done and whether this gives new insights. I suggest we see if that leads to new insights and whether we should do something with them. I would like to give that a place in the run-up to the Aviation Note. Mr Amhaouch asked if the Minister would like to enter into talks with all regional airports. I'd like to make a commitment to that, too. I think that is very important, because all airports are involved not only in the reclassification of airspace but also in the Aviation Note. So I think it's very good that they're all hooked up to that. Is the airspace review more than just flexible use of airspace? That is what Mr Bruins asked. The answer to that is yes. It also concerns operational air traffic control concepts, airspace structure and routes. That is what you will find in the airspace reclassification plan. Mr Laçin spoke about the strike on the ground. Are the directors going to ensure that the staff are adequately trained and have good employment contracts? We have discussed this before, so I am repeating myself: of course I agree with you that we need to ensure good working conditions and working conditions. The responsibility for this lies primarily with employers. The SZW Inspection shall monitor compliance with that labour legislation and shall deploy its capacity where the greatest risks of non-compliance arise. Workers can, of course, always report any wrongdoing individually, either through a trade union or through a works council. If such notifications come in, the Inspection SZW will be able to pick it up. In the context of social abuses, we have been asked to set up pilot contracts at European level. Several letters have already been sent to your Chamber. For airlines with a base in the Netherlands and for Dutch aviation personnel in general, the working conditions and conditions are good for each other. There is also no evidence that airlines avoid paying taxes or social contributions. Some airlines, which are located elsewhere in Europe and some of which also fly to and from the Netherlands, look for and cross the borders of labour law. Of course, we do not think that is desirable. Therefore, the European Commission is already in the process of discussing the European issue of pay-to-fly and the role of private employment agencies. It is also partly at the request of the Netherlands that the European Commission has launched investigations to collect data in the field of private employment agencies and the prevention of pay-to-fly constructions. I imagine we'll wait for those conversations and the results of those investigations. Of course, I will then inform your Chamber, in close coordination with colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u340	There's a need to interrupt, but I'd still like to introduce you to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u341	Shall I finish it first, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u342	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u343	Mrs Van Brenk asked how recreational aviation is involved in the participation process; she might have come to the interrupting microphone before that. Before the summer, I will inform you about the intended approach to participation. I will mention exactly how we will take the various stakeholders, including recreational aviation. So I can guarantee you he'll definitely be one of them. At the end of the year, if it is right, we will be able to steer a detailed and coordinated approach to participation for the whole project as part of the project plan. But you can be assured that recreational aviation will be part of that. The last question is from Mr Stoffers. How are we going to reach agreements with neighbouring countries, and will the Belgians cooperate? I have already indicated that a review of the Dutch airspace can only be done in coordination with the countries around us. We already have official and political discussions with Belgium and Germany. We're also deploying our diplomatic posts. I would remind you once again that this is also happening in good coordination with our colleagues in the defence sector. Because, of course, as regards the reclassification of airspace, we are also taking it up both military and civil. So we are also doing so in good consultation with neighbouring countries. Mr. Chairman. That was my other block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u344	I thought the Minister was passing through our point a little quickly over an airport in the sea. That will be in the note in 2020, but it will be a while. Would it be possible to make a quick scan perhaps to clarify whether this is really a serious passable path? Otherwise we will have to wait until 2020 and we will be sent with a brat in the reed. So that is a question and I want to link the issue of fine dust and ultra-fine dust to it. As far as we are concerned, such an airport in the sea, where not all kinds of people live, is also an opportunity in that respect. Studies by RIVM show that there are really major health problems and chronic health risks. So we really should take a serious look at this kind of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u345	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u346	So the question is: does the Minister want that too, in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u347	I have indicated that I want to take the whole plan with me in the context of the Aviation Note. However, if I can understand Mrs Van Brenn in such a way that she is asking me to do some sort of reality check, as I said a little bit in the direction of Mr Paternotte, what is new, what has changed compared to the previous investigations, then we can look at the main points in the run-up to the aviation note. Mrs Van Brenk has already mentioned a few things herself. It is of course quite complex, because there is also fishing in the North Sea and we also want to set up a number of wind farms there. Those are new things, too. Those are things that weren't in that investigation back then. So I suggest that we pick up some sort of quick reality check in the run-up to the Aviation Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u348	I hope that airport isn't off the coast of Texel. If you can promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u349	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u350	But I don't want to bring that up, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u351	Not in the Wadden Sea. Not in the Wadden Sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u352	Not in the Wadden Sea. Let's talk about Ryanair. We've already talked about that. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that she also wants to take steps at European level and that she wants to inform the Chamber about this, but I am also curious about what the Netherlands itself can do. I know that there have been raids in Germany with Ryanair pilots. It has been shown that they are actually merely employees and Ryanair has also been fined for this. So you can also act as a country against these kinds of constructions that really can't. Is the Minister prepared to see what we could do as the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u353	It may sound a little faint and Mr Van Dijk has heard it before, but I really do mean it: I have to refer to the colleagues of SZW. They need to receive concrete reports of abuses and they need to take action, as this is not covered by the ILT. This really falls under the SZW Inspection. They will have to act on that, so you will have to appeal to them as well. But again, we have already had a discussion on this with Mr Van Ark. That was about the drivers. These were also enforcement-related issues. I therefore also think that it is best for you to turn to her in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u354	I'm gonna go through with this, because we know that this construction isn't right. I understand it's in different ministries. There is also, in fact, a cabinet approach, because it also affects aviation, the quality of aviation. KLM also indicates that she is affected by this. Those people live and live here, but they fly under the Irish flag and are pushed into a sham structure. So whoever should be able to do it, I'm calling on the Cabinet to at least work on it. I know that work is being done at European level, but we also need to look at what we can do in the Netherlands, because this construction is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u355	That is why I think it is very good that we should look at what kind of constructions they are and what we can do about them at European level. I'm also glad those investigations are ongoing. I would also like to discuss reports to the Chamber, but if you are talking about concrete raids and so on, I say: that is really something about the inspection SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u356	The last question, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u357	By way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission has decided to Why, among other things, I think it belongs to this minister, is because it can affect flight safety. If pilots are underpaid, if they have to work, if they do not dare to report ill and are stuck in a contract in which they also have to pay part of their wages, then that is a sham construction, false self-employment, and that affects flight safety, the safety of passengers, the safety of residents and everyone who works on those flights. I am therefore pleased to hear that there are investigations going on to raise this issue in Europe at the next Council of Transport Ministers, so that this issue of social abuses is also discussed. I'm asking her to inform us about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u358	It is precisely for the reasons that Mr Laçin mentions, namely that it can have an impact on safety and on the whole operation, that I think it is very important. That is why I wholeheartedly support the arrest of this European citizen. I'm really looking forward to what those tests are going to yield. So it is absolutely not that I do not feel any involvement in this subject, because I certainly do feel it. The only thing I wanted to point out in the direction of Mr Van Dijk is that there is a functional separation and that I am not going over the inspection SZW. But as with the drivers, of course, we move well together in the cabinet. I would like to bring this subject to the attention of Mr Van Ark once again, so that we can work together on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u359	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u360	Thanks for the answer. I have one final point. It's always nice to be right that I had two more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u361	Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u362	We'll just have to wait and see!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u363	You were right to have two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u364	My final question concerns my other point in this block: the strikes of baggage dealers and passenger dealers for less workload, less tight schedules and more secure contracts. Every time we talk about this subject, this Minister gives me the answer that lies primarily with the employers. That could be true if we take it off as terms of employment. But not only the SP, but also the NLR states that working conditions of ground workers affect safety. If too long rows are created and if security guards cannot do their job properly, it will affect the safety of the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u365	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u366	It is precisely for this reason that I keep calling on the cabinet to take up this issue again and again, and now the Minister of Finance is sitting here in order to take control of this and make demands on the Schiphol Group and say that the race should stop down. The people who work at Schiphol Airport must have good working conditions and fixed contracts. We must ensure that safety is not at stake in the end. I therefore ask you once again to respond to this, to take control and to consult with the Schiphol Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u367	We're here to discuss security at length. But of course, where it would affect safety, we will certainly appeal to the companies involved. It's just, we don't have that kind of signal yet. The OVV has also indicated that it is not unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u368	Thank you. Then I give now... No, Mr. Laçin. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Members for the two little questions that have also been put to me on this important subject. It's the first time I've been outside the finance committee. The public gallery is then usually completely empty. I see that now that I have the floor, some of the people present are immediately getting ready to leave. Mr. Chairman. Most of the questions have been answered by my colleague, but in two blocks, namely Schiphol and KLM, I would like to name a number of things and answer Members' questions. Mr. Chairman. First of all, it might be good to consider the structure we have set up in the Netherlands with regard to the division of roles and state ownership. A few Members have referred to this. State ownership begins with public interests. In the case of a State participation, there is a public interest in the guarantee which the State has decided it is desirable to play a role in it. We do this in a number of companies, and very strongly at Schiphol Airport. This is very recognizable, especially for the three members who do not only serve in this committee but are also members of the permanent finance committee, where we often talk about state participations. We have quite deliberately and clearly separated the roles and responsibilities. A number of Members have asked questions about this. I shall come back to that in more detail in a moment. But it has been a conscious and very sensible choice, as far as I am concerned, to say that there is the role of the shareholder, a limited role, and there is the policy-responsible role, a much wider role. I saw that last one again today. The Minister of IenW is about almost everything and I'm really just about a little bit. Sometimes points pass by both of us. Then there is also very close contact, as we see on this dossier but also on some other files. Let me say a few words about this in the context of KLM and Air France. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, Mr Van Dijk asked: will this remain the same? I believe that Mr Bruins and Mr Paternotte have also asked for this. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sure. In the Note Participation Policy, Schiphol has been identified as a permanent participation because of the natural monopoly on infrastructure and the important role, not to say crucial, that this infrastructure plays for the Dutch economy. Mr. Chairman. These public interests are concerned with continuity, quality and network development. It is also about high-quality accessibility and, of course, it is also about quality of service, but that is much more my colleague's portfolio on a sustainable, healthy and safe living environment. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte asked a few specific questions about this division of roles. He asked me if I feel responsible despite my limited role. The answer to that is, of course, yes. He also asked if we know about each other what we're doing. That is, I think, an important point to highlight very specifically. Each time a large investment demand is presented, there is, of course, intensive contact. Often it is also the case that such an investment is also part of the strategy, the direction that has been set by the Ministry of Policy at all. So in a sense it's a circle, you might say. If something is going on, then in this case the ministers concerned know how to find each other in the very short term. This is true for Schiphol, but that was also true for the last week and a half in the developments surrounding Air France-KLM. We have had very close contact with them. That started all that Friday night late. So there is direct contact and about investments there is always contact. In addition, I would like to highlight that, as we have seen today, IenW is really in the lead. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked: how do we ensure good working conditions? I believe that Mr Laçin has asked for this too. It is important to highlight the fact that, in the construction with the state participations, we have chosen to put the company at a distance, but of course we, as a shareholder, are engaged in the dialogue on what we consider to be of further importance. The three Members who are also on the Finance Committee will recognize that. For example, we have also had discussions on what we want in the area of diversity. Those are elements of the dialogue. But at the same time, ensuring good working conditions is really the primary responsibility of the board of directors. The Supervisory Board of Schiphol oversees this. If my colleague or I have the impression that this is not happening properly, we will, of course, discuss it. Members Kröger, Van Raan and of course Graus have asked about the ticket tax. I think there has already been a lot of talk about this in the direction of Mr Graus. I would add that the Secretary of State for Finance will have the AO Fiscal policy agenda in two days' time. He will dwell on this in detail. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the subject that has been most of our concern over the past period, I think. That is Air France-KLM, which is happening there and how we ensure that it all ends as well as possible for the company and indirectly for the Netherlands. To outline the context, too: I have a stake of almost 70% at Schiphol as a shareholder. The rest of the shares are almost entirely owned by other Dutch governments, and a piece of the company that the members know is in the hands of Aéroport de Paris, because there we made a cross exchange. That's really different at KLM. There I have a stake of less than 6% of the shares. Those are shares in KLM; I don't have any shares in the holding company. That's just for context. I will then answer the questions. Mr Bruins and also Mr Amhaouch of the CDA asked: what is the public interest involved with KLM, and how is it secured? As far as I am concerned, that is, of course, the key question. In my opinion, what hardly needs to be substantiated is that Schiphol is crucial for the Dutch economy, and that KLM is then again the main means that Schiphol has at its disposal to be a thriving airport. That also makes KLM so very important to us. It is not for nothing, and quite rightly so, that Members of Parliament are calling for so much attention to be paid to this. For the government when approving the merger between Air France and KLM, that was in 2004, really a long time ago, the guarantee of those public interests was also paramount. This involved maintaining network quality and maintaining landing rights. That is, of course, a very important lock on the door that we still have. The necessary arrangements have also been made for this. Mr. Chairman. We have to acknowledge that this is just a French company that is listed on the stock exchange and that is merged, but in which KLM really was and still is the junior partner at the time. We still have some influence in that complicated construction in the background, of course, but that is how the cards lie. It wasn't a merger of equals back then. I might say that with some heart pain, but I think it's important to keep making that happen. Mr. Chairman. Then the CDA also asked: how do we deal with these personnel issues? I think we have all followed them very closely. As far as I am concerned, it is crucial to resolve this wage conflict in France. You don't have to be a great businessman to know that the aviation industry is extremely competitive and that cost leadership is a concept that is still far away for Air France-KLM. The whole group simply has too high costs, and within the cost, the labour cost component is just a very large one. That is precisely why Air France's management has so opposed what the unions have proposed there. I would like to say straight away, also in the direction of Mr Van Dijk, who asked me about the contacts, that of course we are not talking about the right to strike in France and that I do not want to do anything about it. But hundreds of millions of dollars have been pulled out of the window. That's a lot of money for an enterprise of this size. As far as I am concerned, it is therefore crucial that we get back to the table. It is also crucial that we proceed with the costs and therefore with the wage costs, because that is the only way to make this an iron-strong airline. I think that's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u370	I was curious to see how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u371	Sorry, Chairman, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u372	I was curious to see how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u373	I have one more question or three, four to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u374	Okay. Then I'm going to see Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u375	I fully share what the Minister said about the strikes and the importance of going back to the table, said the colleague on his right earlier. He touched the affair earlier. It was, of course, chosen at the time of the merger that the Netherlands did not take an interest in the holding company and France did. France took a 14% stake. I agree with him that the Netherlands itself should not now take an interest in the holding company. But it would be a good thing if the French were to reduce their interest and build more distance into it, because, of course, that is behind the unhealthy relationship between the company, the trade unions and the French state in this case. Now, for the first time in a long time, we have a liberal government in France, you might say. Or at least, if I talk to the Minister, it is a constructive-liberal government, no, a progressive-liberal government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u376	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u377	Do you see any chance that a distance between Air France-KLM and the French state will finally be built in?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u378	Mr Paternotte is trying to move President Macron into his camp. I come across more politicians today who need them. I will not interfere in that debate. I'll leave that at his own expense. What has happened recently is that the holding company Air France-KLM has sold a significant part of the shares to two other international players: Delta and China Eastern. Everyone from the non-executors and the executives I've spoken about this has said that this has had a positive effect on the dynamics in the board. Why? Because that has improved the business interest, the global perspective and also the dynamics there was. Only, of course, I am not talking about the importance of the French state in that holding company. So I can find any amount of that, but I'm not going over it. Mr Van Dijk asked if I had had any contact with Air France-KLM and the French State. I think he is aware that this is the case. We have both had very intensive contact with the people on the holding side and on the KLM side. We have also had very intensive contact with both our colleagues. Of course, it was a very constructive conversation. By the way, I have to say that I went there on another subject. Because we also have a discussion with the French about the banking union, the rest of EMU and the Multiannual Financial Framework. But of course we also talked about Air France-KLM. The good news, which Mr Paternotte also refers to, is that we agree on a lot. We see the importance of what the company has to do there. But of course I have also indicated that there are great concerns in the Netherlands and still some frustration about the performance. Of course, my French colleague understands that very well. He also said that he had recently taken the figures. He also sees how the parts perform; let me put it this way. In that light, it is very good news that we have heard today that Elbers, the CEO of KLM, also in that core team that is now at least temporarily emerging within the board.I hope that will also have a long-term resistance. This, of course, is very similar to the situation we started in 2004. As far as I'm concerned, that's a good thing. What are the consequences, Mr Van Dijk? Others asked that, too. I was talking about the hundreds of millions standing out the window. Unfortunately, that money won't come back. Mr Graus also asked for a possible rescue plan. I can imagine that emotion very well. At the same time, last Sunday Elbers made it very clear that it was wise that KLM went into business with Air France at the time. It is difficult to imagine that KLM would have had an independent future. The best thing we can do now and what KLM can do with regard to guarantees...................................................................................................................................................... We need to build a strong airline together. So I think it is quite right that Elbers said that we didn't just get into this, but we believe in it, because this is the best bet. KLM has done very well in recent years. I very much endorse that. Mr Graus made a few comments, including on the temporary solution. He's absolutely right about that. That's a temporary solution. One will have to look for a new chair and/or CEO. Then we also have to make a final decision on what governance looks like. It is difficult to speculate whether we will then continue on the path we have taken. I have no guarantees, of course, but I am very positive that this step has been taken. This is probably done with a view to the future, but of course I do not have any guarantees. Mr. Chairman. Then the possible release of shares. That's a very complicated formula. It is important, as much as I understand the question, to say that that is not really the issue either. What that society needs to do is to perform better. Of course, we, as the Netherlands, now keep a close eye on our interests, although they have been put at a distance. Mr. Chairman. I think I've run out of questions. I've got one left. Mr Van Raan made some frivolous comments to both the interrupting microphone and from the chair on the fact that there would be billions left and that cheap money could be borrowed. That is, of course, the moment when I wake up immediately and would like to free him from that illusion. This is a conversation that we sometimes have in the Finance Committee. When I have the opportunity to say something about it, I rarely let it pass, as my colleague besides me knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u379	The Minister's words that he said it with pain in his heart, with even some emotion in his eyes, say enough about how we wasted KLM, as I have been saying here for 11 years. We need to make sure we don't do that with more crown jewelry. There is no support for this, but I really think that this should be the subject of a parliamentary inquiry into the squandering of energy companies, about the squandering of KLM. Those French laughed their asses off; believe me. And then the ticket tax. I asked you very clearly. I want to have an investigation into the effects of this. Now it is said that we are not going to do it like in 2008 and 2009, but that is not going to do me any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u380	And what exactly is the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u381	I really want to have an investigation into the road leakage effects that the proposed ticket tax is going to bring about, how many jobs we are going to lose and what it is going to cost, e.g. the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u382	However, on that first point. I think many of us have a very positive emotion at Schiphol and at KLM. But the thought of KLM being squandered at the time, I would really like to throw it far from me. I don't think that's a proper representation of things. It is also important to emphasise how the airline was doing at the time. At that time he was looking for a partner and with a British firm, an Italian firm and probably also with other companies he explored whether there was any future music in it. That wasn't successful. In any case, KLM's performance during that period was of a completely different order than today. At that time, as I think was perfectly understandable, people were very satisfied with the kind of agreements they made with the French. You can say afterwards that you might have wanted things to be different, but that's usually the case in life. I think that at that time we really looked at what would be in the long-term interest of the company and how the company will survive in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u383	I share a lot of what the Minister says, but when we bought ABN back, the bank, it turned out that we paid way too much for it. That proved to be only by the De Wit Committee, which I myself have been a member of for a very long time. Then I had the rulers sitting in front of me, who said: if I had known then... But it was. This is true. If there is a parliamentary survey, it is looked at very differently and it is always said: we did not know at the time. We're wasting our crown jewels. I also saw that interview with Mr. Elbers at Buitenhof. That man is sitting there as CEO of KLM. Today he sits at the French table. So that man has to act diplomatically. He cannot allow his own authority to speak at all, and certainly not at Buitenhof on television. There he didn't get a glass of water, because I saw that his glass of water was empty; so they didn't even leave the glass half full. I want to see how we can increase the possibilities, the power and the power. I'm going to table a motion on that, too. Perhaps the Minister would like to undertake to consider how we can regain more power and strength, perhaps with the same stock package as the French, or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u384	But just for the record. My firm conviction is that in the past people have not dealt lightly with the importance of KLM, but of course I have not been wrong about it myself. I am convinced, if I turn back the film from the past few weeks, that all those involved, in the cabinet, but also those with a Dutch background in the board of KLM or in the wider board of Air France-KLM, are very aware of the enormous importance of KLM for Schiphol and the enormous importance of Schiphol for the Dutch economy, and that also bring that to the attention of the Dutch economy. I have to say this, and Mr Graus will understand that. The moment I have a conversation with my colleague Bruno Le Maire, that is a conversation between two people, one of whom has a somewhat larger share package than the other, but neither of whom is close to a majority shareholder. Air France-KLM is a listed company on the French Stock Exchange. For the most part, it is owned by private parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u385	A new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u386	Yes, I have two more questions and I would like to ask them, because this is very close to my heart, as well as the Netherlands. First of all, I asked for guarantees. I have listed five points that have been laid down by the Cabinet in a MoU, a memorandum of understanding. That's what happened in 2015. I said, "Don't forget to lay that down in legally well-established guarantees." I have just had an interrupting debate with the Minister of IenW. This minister would still be answering my question. That's what I'd like to know. I can also immediately ask my second question; then I am through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u387	Then you've had all your interruptions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u388	Then I'm gonna bet the joker. For my second question I appeal to the Minister as the shepherd of the sheep, no matter what shares he has or doesn't have; that will be a big deal to me for now. I ask him to ensure that the current President of KLM becomes Vice-President or remains within the Air France-KLM holding. If he has to go there with that charming queen of ours, or I know what he's doing, but it's possible. We land on the moon, we clone sheep, anything is possible. You shouldn't always say, "I can't do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u389	Do we clone sheep?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u390	Yes, anything is possible, Madam President. We say too quickly here in the Netherlands: no, that is not possible. It's okay! Anything's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u391	This is the kind of question you think: where should I start? Perhaps it is only on Mr Graus's first question. Of course, the cabinet speaks with a mouth, so I would like to endorse everything my colleague has just said about it. Mr Graus asks whether we cannot formalise these commitments, which have been repeatedly made and which have also been mentioned in a letter of Parliament, and get them through the French on paper with a signature. That's a pretty complicated road. If it were easy to do, I'm sure it would have been done in the past. It's also a bit of a question of what's in it for you. I greatly appreciate the involvement of Mr Graus in the subject, but perhaps I can say that it is a somewhat legalistic, Dutch, paper-based and not power-based idea that you have a guarantee if you have made an oral commitment that is also valid, so know the lawyers present here. I think the path we have to take is really a different one. The path we must take is, of course, where Mr Graus and I meet, in my view, entirely in order to continue to articulate, including in Paris, and when it must be in very clear language, what the Dutch interests are and that we are prepared to defend that coûte que coûte, but at the same time ensure that that undertaking performs. Why is KLM taken seriously in Paris and also by my colleague Bruno Le Maire? Because the performance is good. That's the key to success here. The question is whether I want to make an effort to achieve this balance. Of course, but in the universe of Mr. Graus is more possible than in mine. I am going to work for it, but much more than an effort commitment it cannot be between him and me, because I really am a modest shareholder in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u392	No, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u393	I would just like to thank the Minister for that commitment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u394	That's good, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u395	I hear the Minister saying some sensible things that appeal to me as a liberal. Of course, it is a matter for the company itself, but I think it is good that we stress the importance not only of the connections with the rest of the world, but also of the fact that KLM provides about half of all those flights, but also of the fact, quite simply, that there are 30,000 people working at the KLM and earning their living every day. This means that we must work for this. Now it's up to the company itself to fix it. Those strikes must come to an end soon. They have to show cost leadership, otherwise we will have the same problem in two or three years' time. Is the Minister prepared, if it is not resolved now or in the future, to ensure that we do have scenarios and keep all the options open, precisely for the importance of these connections and those 30,000 people who deserve their living here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u396	That's what the Prime Minister always calls a "dance question." This is also the kind of as-dan question where, if I answer him with great enthusiasm, you immediately get involved, if you are not careful, in some of those scenarios that we do not want to have. To be honest, I think that the VVD understands that too, because there is no need for that now. I very much support the importance of the company for Schiphol and Schiphol for the Netherlands. I also very much agree with the VVD that it is extremely important for the people who work there, because they earn their living there and we must be honest about it, as many people with a good job do a lot of their life's happiness. We are going to do everything in our power to maintain this, but we simply have to acknowledge that the KLM is a company within a larger entity, in which I also see the comparison with Schiphol Airport really has a minimal stock package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u397	Thank you. Also Mr Remco Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u398	As far as I'm concerned, that means more than the finger on the wrist, but really pay attention and be ready when it would ever be necessary; may we avoid it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u399	Again, we all see what is possible and impossible. It is precisely because we are so motivated and knowing that there are not so many things that we can do on the basis of power that my colleague and I have, of course, been talking about this from the very beginning and we have both been in direct contact with our French colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u400	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u401	In my view, the Minister has made it quite clear that options A to Y are actually that Air France is getting things in order and therefore KLM has a strong partner, which also contributes to the good quarterly result of the group. This requires that the pressure that is currently being exerted should put an end to the strikes, that people should return to the table and that agreements should be made. If this does not happen in spite of the pressure from Mr Hoekstra and his colleague, what options does he have to ensure that things are moving in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u402	That's more or less the same as-dan question. Even then, we will have to start talking again. Two things have happened that, as far as I am concerned, have been very helpful in that case. That is why my French colleague also explicitly said that the French State was not going to join. Secondly, the trade unions said that we will stop strikes, we will go round the table again and we will talk to the new management in due course. Whether they made a calculation of what they could bring in or whether they were just shocked and felt that they had overplayed their hand, I cannot judge that. Everything that has happened has certainly helped my French colleague. Is that a guarantee that it'll all be flawless now? I don't think so. There's gonna be a lot to talk about. I think everyone is increasingly seeing that if we want to build a strong airline, you have to do something about the costs and not least in Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u403	Mr Amhaouch, last question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u404	Yeah, we're almost at the end of the debate. The Minister has already explained this. We have also said on the staff issue that they must resolve it. It's also nice to mention that a junior partner like KLM with 40% turnover is going to make 60% profit. Now with Elbers on the management team, it'll go up there, too, I expect. In the letter, indeed in the replies to the colleague of the VVD and the CDA on 11 October 2017, those five points were reappointed. There were agreements from October 2016: no further centralisation, own financial management. The Secretary of State replied: these agreements still apply. Does it therefore make sense for the same agreements to be renewed? So no new things, but because of the worries and to bring peace to the people, also to KLM Nederland, to reconfirm those agreements in one way or another together with our French colleagues. Is that a possibility you'd like to walk through?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u405	That would make sense. That is what I would do, and I think my colleague would do just as much if there were any indication that the French are about to depart from it. That's exactly what's not going on. There, too, it is acknowledged that KLM is doing significantly better than Air France. There, too, it is acknowledged that this society has grown in recent years in a difficult climate. There is therefore no reason to believe that, with everything that is going on there, people would like to use it on the contrary. If the company or the political leaders had the impression that something would be scraped off, we would obviously take the phone or the plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u406	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV. Speaking time is two minutes and twenty seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u407	Thank you, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to waive the proposed ticket tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to compensate for capacity problems by postponing opening Lelystad Airport with growth at Schiphol Airport by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action to further develop the multimodal hub Schiphol, to maintain future-proof and competitive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-291]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-292]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Paternotte, Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-293]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u408	The motion is therefore co-signed by Jan Paternotte, and therefore not by Bas Paternotte. Please continue. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a network-independent energy supply for Schiphol to prevent power failures, failures and "network dips,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of increasing power and strength by purchasing a share package similar to that of the French within Air France-KLM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-294]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-295]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u409	Then there is my final motion, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the agreements made between the Air France-KLM CEO and the 2015 Cabinet are recorded in new legally anchored guarantees, including:]] [[no further centralisation of KLM activities and business lines to the Air France-KLM holding company in Paris;]] [[no transfer of jobs from the KLM headquarters in Amstelveen to the headquarters of Air France-KLM in Paris;]] [[maintaining independent financial management by KLM;]] [[the Dutch foundations SAK I and SAK II and the agreements extended in 2010 (read State guarantees) between the Dutch State and Air France-KLM remain in place;]] [[growth loss Air France should not be at the expense of growth profitable KLM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-296]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u410	I would like to thank both directors. Thank you for having them here in our beautiful Chamber, Madam President. Everyone have a blessed evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u411	Thank you. You're not going home yet, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u412	In a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u413	So later. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u414	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that growing aviation has an increasing share of CO emissions;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has committed itself to the Paris climate agreement and intends to be climate neutral in 30 years' time;]] [[points out that CO emissions from aviation should be reduced to and from the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Aviation Paper and further decision-making on the future of aviation require a broad assessment of the environmental impact of aviation;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan for an EIA to examine all environmental impacts including climate impacts, as well as possible alternatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the 2014 Quickscan societal cost-benefit analysis (MKBA) for Lelystad Airport does not take into account the effects of low flight routes;]] [[Whereas other social costs can be expected with the current routes, including an impact on house prices, leisure entrepreneurs and the return on two wind farms;]] [[Whereas a small airport with only 10,000 flight movements will suffer losses;]] [[calls on the government to commission a new Integrated SMEA for 10,000 flight movements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Raan, Mr Stoffer and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-297]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Raan, Mr Stoffer and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-298]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Raan and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-299]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u415	And finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are more options for the international accessibility and connectivity of the Netherlands than aviation;]] [[Considering that (fast) trains could take over a large part of short-haul flights and that underground growth of Schiphol can responsibly strengthen the hub function;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has signed the Paris Climate Agreement and therefore intends to reduce its CO emissions by 95% within 30 years;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a accessibility note for the Netherlands which takes account of all modalities and includes the Aviation Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-300]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u416	Then I would like to use the last twenty seconds to thank, in particular, the residents who have been sitting here in the public gallery for a long time. They presented themselves together today to us as a permanent committee. They show how incredibly important it is to have real solutions for aviation. Plans for Lelystad Airport including the low flight routes are really the wrong path. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u417	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u418	Thank you, Mr President. I'll see if there's any time left after reading the motions. I'll start with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to assess policy decisions with an impact as high as those of aviation in advance on the basis of the broad concept of prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that greening should be at the heart of aviation policy and not growth;]] [[considers that increasing the number of flight movements is undesirable as long as it is accompanied by high emissions of CO and ultra-fine dust;]] [[calls on the Government to allow further growth of aviation only when justified from the point of view of climate, safety and the quality of the environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as envisaged in the Van Raan motion for a resolution adopted (31936), no. 445) does not matter whether there is an aeroplane movement with trade or general aviation;]] [[calls on the Government to include all movements in determining the (wide) nuisance caused by air traffic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the level of knowledge in the field of aviation at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State has fallen significantly in recent years, which puts the direction of this dossier too much in the sector;]] [[Whereas a large-scale adaptation of mobility policy requires sufficient human resources and knowledge of content;]] [[calls on the Government to raise the level of expertise at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-301]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Kröger and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-302]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Laçin, Mr Stoffer and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-303]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Laçin, Mr Stoffer and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u419	Last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Aviation Note 2040 all climate impacts of aviation, including total CO emissions, including outside the airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Kröger and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u420	Then I have some time to thank the ministers for their reply. I count the buttons again traditionally. I understand that the mobility note is, after all, an integral document of accessibility, or at least a material one. That's profit. I also understand that the EIA will pass the European test. The Minister will not blame us if we take a look at that in the European Parliament itself. It is also good to know that the 50/50 rule is taken into account in the context of the broad concept of nuisance, so that it will be a kind of new interpretation, but we are waiting for that. It is said that the GGD did not ring the bell, so that precautionary principle is all right. The Minister will not blame us for doing so himself. Of course we are also curious where the painting will hang. Of course, that's not unimportant either. Thanks to the Minister of Finance for the fact that we can borrow cheaply...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u421	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u422	...but he doesn't use it. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u423	Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u424	...that's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u425	Good. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have four motions, two on the working conditions that we have raised, one on the OVV report and one on the future of aviation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the growth of staff is far behind the growth of Schiphol Airport;]] [[noting that the working conditions of ground staff are under pressure and that this has a direct impact on airport safety;]] [[noting that the NLR states that security on the ground cannot be left to the sector;]] [[Whereas safety should be a top priority;]] [[calls on the Government to work for good working conditions and fixed contracts for ground staff at Schiphol Airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a link has been established between false self-employment, pay-to-fly and zero-hour contracts in airlines and reduced safety culture and experience in pilots working for these airlines;]] [[noting that a European approach to these transnational airlines is the only effective approach, where a national approach in the Netherlands is apparently not possible;]] [[calls on the Government at the next Transport Council to address social abuses in aviation and to call on the European Commission to adopt a European approach where this affects flight safety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the OVV is deeply concerned about the interpretation of its report on safety at Schiphol;]] [[noting that the emergence of safety risks at Schiphol Airport is currently the norm, followed by management measures;]] [[Whereas safety risks should be avoided;]] [[calls on the government to commit itself to preventing security risks rather than accepting them and then controlling them, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the only future for aviation in the Netherlands is an aviation in balance with man, environment and climate;]] [[noting that directing purely on economic interests ultimately hampers the viability and habitability of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow further growth of aviation until a better balance has been achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger, Mr Van Raan and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-306]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-307]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger, Mr Van Raan and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-308]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-309]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u427	One last sentence. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. To conclude positively, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, because no one takes it away from this minister that under her reign the LBBL, the Rural Council of Aviation, was created and that residents of six airports in the Netherlands have united to go together for sustainable aviation. We will, together with them, raise the issue of the growth of aviation and where it can stop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u428	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now turn to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u429	Mr President, I too will begin with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, It has recently concluded that all essential information on the updated environmental impacts of the intended use of Lelystad Airport has been described, so that the government can fully take into account the environmental interest in the decision on that use;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, have made and delivered further recommendations and opinions;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up all the recommendations and opinions of the Commission for the EIA. take over,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas increased direction is needed between larger airports to ensure that opportunities are not missed and threats are eliminated;]] [[whereas there is currently little integral direction between the larger airports such as Schiphol, Lelystad, Rotterdam, Eindhoven, Eelde and Maastricht;]] [[calls on the Government to pay explicit attention to the overarching and smart and comprehensive direction between airports of national interest and to engage with these airports in advance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Paternotte and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-310]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Graus and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u430	Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Minister announced that he would present a new aviation participation plan;]] [[Considering that almost all the themes in aviation transcend municipal boundaries and that population groups are constantly developing;]] [[considers that due to their scale, provinces can play an important coordinating role here;]] [[calls on the government in the participation plan for the future of aviation in the Netherlands to pay attention to a clearly defined coordinating role and responsibility for the provinces and, of course, to opportunities to involve the public well,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u431	I too would like to thank the rulers for answering this complex issue. We look forward to the new Aviation Note, where we say once again: people, planet, profit. This is the importance of aviation, both economically and for the environment and human beings. We also think it is very important, and we repeat this, that this cabinet is going to ensure that the reclassification of airspace becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u432	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the residents' groups, who have joined together today, who have already done so. It is of the utmost importance for us as MPs to get a lot of up-to-date information on what is going on at all airports. So thank you for that and, above all, continue to do so. We'll be in touch. I would also like to thank the directors for this extensive debate, which is indeed very complex, because it involves a lot of things. I would like to end with the dilemma that I started with, namely that aviation, on the one hand, brings economic growth, a lot of jobs and jobs, but on the other hand, it also causes more and more nuisance for many people in the Netherlands. That's a difficult road that we have to go together. We, as Labour Party, will therefore cooperate as constructively as possible in the coming period, with a critical eye. But we will certainly do so for the sake of the Netherlands. Thank you, no motions!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u434	You don't have to. Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their clear and concrete response. I learned a lot this afternoon and tonight. I would like to thank the locals who are still in the stands. From 4:00 p.m. to 10:30 p.m., you have a tremendous stamina. There have been so many answers that I actually only have one motion on everything I could have thought of in advance; so so so many concrete answers have been given. That motion sounds like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that plans for routes to and from Lelystad Airport have recently improved in a number of respects, but that a number of bottlenecks and uncertainties have persisted;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that:]] [[an acceptable solution is found for the foreseeable accumulation of noise at the Wezep residential core;]] [[the routes near Zwolle continue as far as possible to the district of Stadshagen, even if the district expands according to existing plans;]] [[the noise situation resulting from gliding over the Vechtdal does not deteriorate after airspace reclassification compared to the situation up to 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u436	Mr President, three motions to highlight some points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister requested an opinion from the Schiphol Environment Council for the political decision-making on the medium-term development of Schiphol;]] [[Whereas the hearing showed broad support for a freshening of regional consultation, with transparent environmental management and national direction as central principles;]] [[calls on the government to include a broad public consultation in the consultation process;]] [[calls on the government to submit clear political choices to the Chamber, with an understanding of the basis for them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas aviation is important for many people and there must be a balance between necessary economic growth and reducing nuisances;]] [[whereas Schiphol as a metropolis airport has an important function for our prosperity and jobs;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the economic role of Schiphol as a mainport for the Netherlands in the Aviation Paper 2020-2040 and to make this prominently reflected in the Aviation Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Graus and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-314]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Graus and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u437	And finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the administrative culture within Air France-KLM has been under pressure in recent years;]] [[Whereas this situation may harm KLM's position and thus have negative consequences for the international interconnection network which is important for the Netherlands and the resulting accessibility, location and employment;]] [[whereas it is therefore very important to restore administrative calm within Air France-KLM;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with Air France-KLM's Executive Board in the short term in order to make an effort to engage in discussions on a stable administrative culture on the basis of the current situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Paternotte, Mr Graus and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-316]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u438	Thank you. I thank the rulers. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and everyone who sacrificed his precious evening to watch this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u439	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u440	Mr. Chairman. After a rock in the pond, maybe an airport in the sea. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current location of Schiphol inevitably requires much from humans, nature and environment in the northern Randstad;]] [[Whereas since the end of the last survey on the relocation of Schiphol to the North Sea, more land in the world has been sprayed than ever before;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out an analysis of the state of the art of previous research into the creation of a mainport in the North Sea for the purpose of the Aviation Paper 2020-2040;]] [[calls on the Government to have a quick scan of the potential social costs and benefits as well as the consequences for flight safety of a transfer from Schiphol Airport to the sea;]] [[invites the Government to send planning and key questions for this study to the House of Representatives before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State invests in equity because there are public interests involved in a company;]] [[Whereas Schiphol has been regularly overburdened in recent years and has been subject to structural comments on security policy by the OVV;]] [[Whereas a comprehensive balance between the interests of society and the interests of shareholders is desirable;]] [[Calls on the Government to send to the Court an integral balancing letter on behalf of all the departments concerned in the case of investments by Schiphol NV in excess of EUR 200 million, with a justification for the award or payment. rejection of these investments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to strengthen the modal shift from aviation to rail;]] [[Whereas there are still many improvements in international rail traffic, which could lead to a significant reduction of unnecessary air traffic at such destinations;]] [[Calls on the Government to appoint Schiphol as a multimodal hub (train and air station) in the Aviation Note;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Aviation Paper the ambition to make the transfer from aircraft to train more attractive at European level and in conjunction with the international rail agenda;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards high-speed connections from Amsterdam/Schiphol to destinations that are an attractive alternative to air traffic, such as the inner cities and the largest airports of Brussels, Paris, Frankfurt and London,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that aviation is not currently part of the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas greening of aviation is essential for achieving climate objectives;]] [[Whereas airports may be a driver of relatively cleaner aviation by differentiation in port charges and the removal of polluting aircraft types;]] [[Whereas at Schiphol airport some aircraft emit twice as much per seat as others;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with Schiphol, to differentiate airport charges on the basis of climate impact;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Schiphol, to establish a phase-out for access to the most polluting aircraft;]] [[Calls on the Government to report to the Chamber on this in the fourth quarter of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-317]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Graus and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-318]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Jetten, Mr Kröger, Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Amhaouch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-319]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-320]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u441	Mr President, thank you very much for chairing this evening. Thank all the people in the gallery for attending. Minister Hoekstra for attending this aviation debate. I will not repeat the request to ask you to do so again, even with your interest in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u442	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas aviation contributes significantly to the emission of particulate matter and ultra-fine dust;]] [[Whereas long-term exposure to particulate matter results in damage to health, reduced life expectancy and no threshold of health effects of particulate matter can be demonstrated;]] [[Whereas noise can also have major health effects, such as sleep disturbance, high blood pressure and concentration problems;]] [[Whereas RIVM's own investigation into this matter is still pending;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the impact on public health of policies on Schiphol and Lelystad at least equivalent to economics, environment and climate in policy decisions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas air traffic contributes significantly to CO emissions;]] [[whereas Schiphol has previously set itself the objective of reducing this to 1,35 kg per passenger by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an ambitious plan with interested parties to speed up the reduction of CO emissions per passenger and to inform the Court of Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenk, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-321]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29665-322]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u444	Mr. Chairman. For 50PLUS, the order of things remains of great importance. That is why we believe that there should first be a reclassification of airspace, that there should first be knowledge of the results of RIVM's research into the effects of ultra-fine dust on the health of residents of Schiphol. Only then can we make a proper assessment of aviation in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all the residents for the wisdom they are e-mailing. I am pleased with all the information that is sent through the mailbox every week, almost three times a week. There's a lot of wisdom out of that. So I'd especially like to encourage them to go through with that. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank the directors for their contribution tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u445	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u446	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I was preparing for this this morning, I asked my highly expert colleague: what was the outcome of the debate this evening? Then I got a bit of a woolly answer. I have to tell you, I don't really have the answer yet. But I did learn a lot tonight, so thank you for that. In that respect, it has certainly been a very useful afternoon and evening for me. I would also like to thank you for answering the many questions. For us, the line's' remains that we may have been able to put in place as a result, and is still the starting point: first redefining the airspace and then doing so. But if it's different, then at least we've shared a lot of things. The answers give me reasonable confidence that we are moving in the right direction. I brought one motion on monitoring, but I'm not filing it. I felt that the answer given by the Minister was very close to the question I asked. We'll get back to that. For the rest, I have a number of questions that are somewhat technical in nature, but they are addressed in the hearing. So thank you very much and with this I conclude my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u447	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. 32 motions have been tabled. The minister says he needs ten minutes. Ten minutes is fine with me for 32 motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u448	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u449	Thank you, Mr President. You asked me on the break to do it all staccato. I'm handling the motions on the pieces Nos. 291, 295, 296, 306, 316 and 318. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). We have not even started the debate on the ticket tax yet, so he will understand from me that we need to talk about it before we can talk about such motions at all. The motion in part No. 295 also belongs to Mr Graus. I understand the inspiration, but I advise against the motion because it is not a solution to the company's existing cost problem. Something similar applies to the motion in part No. 296. That is not the issue at the moment, but if there were any concern on the part of the cabinet, particularly on the points at the beginning of the motion, we would like to discuss this very strongly. I say this to the House of Representatives, and I say this in the direction of Mr Graus, but I advise against the motion itself. The motion Laçin c.s. in piece No. 306 I also advise against. I think I just answered that. This is really Schiphol's responsibility. The SZW inspection supervises compliance with labour legislation. Which brings me to the Dijksta c.s. motion. in piece No. 316. Mr President, it does not happen often, but I have carried out this motion before it was tabled. I'd be happy to take her over, because I think the idea behind it is "go ahead with that conversation" and I'd like to be recommended for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u450	This is about the motion in part No. 316 of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u451	Mr Dijkstra. Mr Paternotte, Mr Graus and Mr Stoffer are also underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u452	I'll see if anyone has any objection to taking over the Remco Dijkstra c.s. motion. in piece No. 316. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u453	I'm going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u454	Have you dealt with all the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u455	No, I got another one. That's the motion in part No. 318 by Mr Paternotte. I think I understand what he wants, but I would like to say the following in his direction. He talks about an integral balance between the interests of society and the interests of shareholders that would be desirable. That is, of course, exactly the balance that we are trying to make, also together with the Ministry of Policy. There is therefore no contradiction. We are trying to weigh both of these explicitly, otherwise it would not have been a state participation either. I would like to propose the following, and I could leave the vote on the motion to the House. If we do what Mr Paternotte asks, and if we publish it in all the richness that is needed for that, we will have to publish it in the annual report. That would be my proposal. If we can interpret the motion in this way, I would like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u456	Does Mr Paternotte agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u457	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u458	Okay. For the Acts: Mr Paternotte agrees. Were those the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u459	Then I would like to thank Mr Paternotte very much for his sparingness in dealing with my time. Maybe he can share that thought with others, too. I would also like to thank Members very much for the constructive debate and the enormous involvement in the Schiphol State participations and, to a lesser extent, KLM. I would really like to say that I appreciate how many people are concerned about this in a positive way, as do I, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u460	Mr. Graus, a very brief comment and no more discussion, because we're here from 4:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u461	At my motion in part No. 296 said the Minister that if there were anything to do with the first three or the first four points, we would be allowed to ring the bell, but I do not know which points he means, because that was too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u462	They're all important, but the first five points are more structural points, you might say. The final point is "growth loss-making Air France must not be at the expense of KLM growth'. What's that going to cost? It's easier to reach. The first points are, in my view, points where Mr Graus also explicitly refers to the oral commitment that has been made earlier. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. That is not the issue either, but the moment it would become relevant is not relevant at the moment, but at the time it would become relevant I would like to do my best to do so, myself but also, where necessary, with other members of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u463	Mr. Laçin, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u464	So it's five instead of three or four. That is good news, I say in the direction of Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u465	The Minister has advised against my motion. Once again this is dismissed as the primary responsibility of the employer, but I have emphasised in my contribution that the NLR also says in the integrated safety analysis that the ground personnel are touching safety at Schiphol Airport. Then it is the responsibility of the government as the largest shareholder. Then it cannot be dismissed as "it is part of the working conditions, i.e. the responsibility of the employer." I would like to emphasise that once again. I would like to add once again that not only do we agree with this, but that this is also mentioned in the NLR's integrated safety analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u466	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u467	If that were true, it could be true. My colleague says something about safety. Furthermore, "shoemaker, stay with your read" really applies here. This applies to the state participation, to the inspection SZW and especially to me when it comes to my involvement in the state participations. Mr. Chairman. Thank you again to you and to the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u468	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u469	It's all gonna happen here! Thank you for the service, Mr. Chairman. It's a whole row of motions. I didn't even have 30 seconds per motion, so I'll try to deal with them quickly. The Graus motion in part No. 292 is about compensating capacity problems by postponing the opening of Lelystad. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. We've talked about that in a court of law. The Graus c.s. motion in piece No. 293 on the multimodal hub Schiphol I can give judgment Chamber. The Graus motion in part No. 294 on energy supply and network dips I would like to advise against, because that is what Schiphol is up to. In addition, I would like to wait and see what research is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u470	Madam President, I would like to make this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u471	Which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u472	The one in part No. 294.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u473	Until the investigation's done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u474	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u475	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (29665, No. 294). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u476	Then I come to motion Kröger c.s. in piece No. 297, which states that CO emissions from aviation must be reduced to and from the Netherlands. I would advise against this motion, because of course we still have growth prospects, so that does not match each other. However, we are, of course, doing our utmost to reduce CO emissions in general as much as possible. But for the Netherlands as a whole, if we still have growth prospects, we can't do that because for example there are 45,000 flights on Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u477	I suggest you deal with all of Mrs Kröger's motions. Then you will have the floor, Mrs Kröger. And why are you standing by the interrupting microphone, Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u478	I am standing here because I have a question on what the Minister said about a motion by Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u479	Okay. I'll give you the floor later. First, the Minister. Mrs Kröger's motions, all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u480	Oh, everybody.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u481	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u482	Okay. The Kröger c.s. motion in piece No. 298, who asks for a plan E.R., I would advise against. I have already dealt with this in the debate. The same applies to the Kröger c.s. motion. in piece No. 299 on an SME for 10,000 flight movements. I have already replied to this in the debate. Idem for the Kröger/Van Raan motion to item No. 300 on a accessibility note. I have already indicated that we are already doing this in the context of the move towards a mobility fund. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Then I come to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u483	Mrs Kröger, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u484	Today, the figures of the CBS show that CO emissions are rising in the Netherlands and that aviation is an important part of this. Now I hear the Minister say: I must discourage this motion, because we are still planning to grow in CO emissions from aviation. Is that what the Minister's really saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u485	No, the Minister didn't say that; you didn't hear that right. But if you say here that CO emissions should only be reduced from now on, I cannot, of course, live up to that. Because there are still a lot of flights coming in, so there will also be more CO emissions. In general, of course, we strive to reduce it, but in the short term, of course, you cannot reduce your CO emissions if you get even more air traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u486	So you're saying that aviation's CO emissions in the Netherlands are going to grow. That's what you plan to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u487	It will have to grow in the short term. That's inevitable. If you get more flights, then they all have to be much more economical to deliver reduction. I would hope that we can reduce it from now on. We will do everything in our power to do so. But it has to be realistic. If there is room for more flights at all kinds of airports, including military ones, then I cannot, of course, promise that from now on we will only have less CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u488	Then I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u489	Now this is a motion where the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u490	No, Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u491	... doesn't have to judge it, as it's a "the Chamber speaks out" motion. Is that correct, Mr. Chairman? It's a motion that lets the Chamber pronounce something. The Minister does not have to judge that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u492	It's possible. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u493	Mr President, is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u494	Well, then I can withdraw my judgment, but you know how I feel about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u495	You want an address in the Chamber, Mrs Kröger. You're free to do that. That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u496	The motion states: The Chamber pronounces. Then it's a motion on which the Minister doesn't have to judge, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u497	No, that's okay. But the Minister has an opinion. That's okay, too. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u498	It is perhaps a little late to say that the Minister should not judge when the Minister has just given an opinion. But I want to ask you one more question. I get it when you take the military aviation, the cargo flights and the like. For the passenger flights we have started a lot of things that aim to reduce CO emissions, whether it is biokerosine, the agreements we make within CORSIA or...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u499	What do you want to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u500	... the commitment to greening existing aviation. My question is whether the Minister can identify whether the policy we have now leads to a reduction in CO emissions from aviation in its current size.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u501	Of course, that's our goal. I shall come back to that, because there will be other motions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u502	Please continue. You were with Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u503	Yes. That is the motion in part No. 301. That motion by Mr Van Raan and Mrs Kröger is something I would advise against, because he wants all policy decisions to be assessed in advance on the basis of the broad concept of prosperity. That is not how we have regulated our legislation at the moment. The motion in part No. 302 I also advise against, because we already weigh all interests. In the motion in part No. 303 is a bit of a problem. I think she's very sympathetic. I also understand what Mr Van Raan wants to achieve by asking us to include all movements in determining the (wide) nuisance caused by air traffic. That's what we're doing now for sound. The only thing that bothers me is that we still have to define with each other what "wide nuisance" is. Actually, I'd like to wait until we define that. Only then can you say it. Now I don't know what that will mean. So the problem is a little bit that we're still working on that. Perhaps you could hold the motion until we have defined it. But that's just a suggestion. And if I don't, I'm gonna have to dissuade her now. The motion in part No. 304 is about further raising the expert level at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. If you had said that a long time ago, it might have been a different story, but we have really taken action on that point. There will be no less than 20 FTEs, some of which have fortunately already started. So this motion is no longer necessary. I can dissuade her. In the motion in part No. 305 is requested to include all climate impacts of aviation in the Aviation Note, including total CO emissions. I was referring just now to Mr Paternotte. I think it is a good idea to include all these effects, i.e. total CO emissions, not just those of flights to and from the airport, within the framework of the new Aviation Note. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 307 by Mr Laçin and Mr Gijs van Dijk, the Government is invited to address the social abuses in aviation at the forthcoming Council for Transport Ministers. I wouldn't want to do that now, because we just did that a year ago, in June 2017. That's where the surveys, the investigations, come from. I'd really like to wait and see. Then it is a good time to talk about this in the Transport Council. I also understand that not everyone in the Transport Council was enthusiastic about bringing that up. We've now managed to launch that investigation. Let's see what comes out of it first. So I'm gonna dissuade this motion for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u504	What about the rest of the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u505	Maybe next year will be different, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u506	Mr Laçin's next motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u507	Yes, Mr Laçin's next one too. Mr Laçin says that the emergence of safety risks at Schiphol Airport is currently the norm. We absolutely cannot agree to that. With that second observation, we disagree so much that I would like to discourage that motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 309. It states that we would be purely focused on economic interests, and that is not the case. So I'd like to dissuade him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u508	A brief remark, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u509	First, the motion in part No. 307 on the Council of Transport Ministers. When can we expect information from the surveys that are now disabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u510	I can't quite oversee that. We're gonna have an AO for that Transport Council soon anyway. I can, of course, make sure that we get that straight before that AO Transport Council. Then I can give you a little more detailed information on the state of these investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u511	Thank you. Then I want the motion in part number. 307 for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u512	At the request of Mr Laçin, I propose his motion (29665 No. 307). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u513	Then the motion to part No. 308. The second observation is that the occurrence of safety risks at Schiphol Airport is the norm. I would like to ask the Minister whether she agrees with the request, if she can live with it. Then I might be able to change the observation, because I am concerned that we do not accept safety risks first and then take action, but that we use as much as possible to prevent these safety risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u514	If you omit the second observation, I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u515	Are you going to change the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u516	But I really do not want anything to remain of the observation that the emergence of safety risks is the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u517	In the end, I am concerned about the request, so I will amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u518	Okay. Then the verdict is "Room"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u519	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u520	Okay. Thank you. Then we go to Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u521	Yes. His first motion, in part No. 310, calls on the Government to make all the Commission's recommendations and opinions for the (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can make a judgment call on that, Room. The motion in part No. 311 calls on the Government to give explicit consideration to overarching direction between airports of national interest in the Aviation Note and, in anticipation, to engage in dialogue with these airports. On that I can also give judgment Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 312. I also give this judgment to the Chamber, which refers to the request to consider in the participation plan the coordinating role of provinces and the possibilities for involving the public well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u522	Okay. The motion in part No. 313?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u523	313 by Mr Bruins and Mr Paternotte. There's a lot of requests in there. If I may interpret that motion in such a way as to satisfy the harsh pre-condition that the connecting routes become higher in the process of reclassification, I would ask you, in fact, to perhaps hold it. Otherwise, I'd say she's actually redundant, but if I could interpret her like that, I'd see some space. Let me take a look at Mr Bruins as the first author.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u524	"Needless" is simply dissuade, isn't it, in the assessment framework of motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u525	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u526	I am no longer sure at this late hour that I will be able to use this interpretation. So I can't say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u527	No, I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u528	So, no, I can't say right now that I agree with that interpretation. I'd like to hear what the verdict is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u529	Then I'll have to discourage the motion. I say on one of the three points that I have to take into account in the hardness that this is a prerequisite, but I cannot support that at that detailed level now. Then I'll have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u530	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u531	Then I come to the motion on part No. 314 by Mr Dijkstra. It invites the government to include a broad public consultation in the consultation process. This concerns the opinions that we still expect from the Schiphol Environment Council. There's the judgment room. The motion in part No. 315, by Mr Dijkstra, invites the government to make the economic role of Schiphol as a mainport for the Netherlands prominently reflected in the Aviation Paper 2020-2040. I'd like to give a ruling on that, too, Chamber. The motion in part No. 316 was for colleague Hoekstra. The motion in part No. 317 refers to the airport at sea. In fact, I have already said in the direction of both Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Paternotte that I think that is a good idea. I'd like to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u532	Does anyone object to taking over the motion in part No. 317 by Mr Paternotte and Mrs Van Brenn? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u533	The motion in part No. 318 was for Finance. Then I come to the motion on part No. 319. I would actually like to ask Mr Paternotte to hold this motion until Mr Van Veldhoven can discuss the international railway agenda, because it is very much in her area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u534	If I understand correctly, the Minister says to hold until the Secretary of State comes up with the international rail agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u535	Yes. And he'll be here before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u536	The question in this motion is to take a number of steps towards the Aviation Note. It is in itself behind the horizon of the railway agenda. We would also like to mention that as such in the Aviation Note. Can you deal with that already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u537	I think it would be wise for us to wait and see how the Secretary of State puts this into her international rail agenda. I would, however, like to assure you that, within the framework of the Aviation Paper, we will, of course, take the aspects of the railway agenda of the Secretary of State. Of course, we will look specifically at the destinations you have in mind from Amsterdam Schiphol. I would like the Secretary of State to be able to have her own debate. I don't want to fill all that out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u538	What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u539	Then we'll hold the motion once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u540	At the request of Mr Paternotte, I propose his motion (29665, No. 319). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u541	Then the motion to part No. 320. That's where I have a little problem. There are three requests to the government. A request to the government is to achieve, in consultation with Schiphol, a phase-out phase-out for the most polluting aircraft. Unfortunately, that is not possible under European rules. If you would like to delete that request and leave the other requests, I would like to consult with Schiphol in order to see what we can do to get less polluting aircraft. That's what we're gonna do at the climate table. But this extinction is not possible under European rules, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u542	Can the Minister say a little more about that? Because I know it is possible to say on the basis of emissions that a particular type of aircraft is not welcome. That choice can be made. Of course, the idea of phase-out suggests that you say that an aircraft with a certain emission is no longer welcome from a given date. This can be done, also on the basis of European rules. So can you explain what the European rules do not allow for this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u543	Let me then propose to Mr Paternotte that this motion be retained. We have a general air transport consultation in not too long. If I promise you that I will explicitly describe this in the letter that we are sending for the general consultation of Aviation, then you will be able to do so, because I imagine that there will probably be a VAO from it, and always decide to retable this motion. Would you like to hold the motion until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u544	To be honest, I found the Minister somewhat more egalitarian in replying to the suggestions I made, and which are actually literally included in this motion. As far as I'm concerned, the conversation with Schiphol should be started immediately, with the aim of achieving this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u545	But what are you going to do with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u546	My question is what can be achieved by waiting for a VAO that Mr Laçin will no doubt apply for and then take place at the beginning of July.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u547	My proposal is that you withdraw the second request from the motion. Then I can give this motion the verdict Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u548	Yes, you did say that, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u549	I can tell you more about the second request in the run-up to the general agreement on aviation. Then you have those other two points in; at least if it is up to me, because that is obviously up to the Chamber. You can always reconsider the second request later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u550	Mr Paternotte has until Tuesday. And he wasn't allowed to leave out that one sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u551	Then I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u552	Okay, then we'll go to Mrs. Van Brenk's motions, starting with the one in part No. 321.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u553	The motion in part No. 321 calls on the government to consider the impact of public health policies at least in the same way as the economy, the environment and the climate. This motion is a little ahead of the fact that we do not yet have a standard for particulate matter, so I must advise against it. The same applies to the motion in part No. 322, because it's not really necessary. We've already made a run for it. I have also indicated to you that we have a special sub-table for aviation under the Mobility Table. So this motion is also dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u554	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the ministers, the MPs and, above all, the people...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u555	Mr President, I still have to answer Mr Van Raan's question where I am going to put his painting. The answer is nowhere. With us at the Ministry, you can't hit a nail in the wall. But there's also a standard, so I'll put it in the display case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-16.u556	People are already getting up, but I have to close the sitting properly first. I'll take my time. I would like to thank the ministers, the staff and, above all, the people in the public gallery. A few people have held out, but I am sure others have followed this debate through other channels. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
