ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u1	The next item is the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority (VAO). I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Minister for Medical Care to trade-K. I give the floor to Mr Grashoff, the first speaker, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We discussed the NVWA in detail in the AO. I think we're gonna do a lot more than that. I have indicated that there would still be some profit to be made in the fight against manure fraud. I shall return to that in the motion for a resolution. A number of practical suggestions have been made by the NVWA, from the workplace. I give, not exhaustively, a few examples. The suggestion has been made to make AGR-GPS mandatory. It has also been suggested that the rent of manure storage should be registered, because it is also frauded. It's a better way to get a hold of that. In addition, the suggestion has been made of unannounced checks on what we call the "monster Kabinets." These are not cabinets in box K, but boxes in trucks with which the control of equipment is controlled. On pictures we have seen that literally there is a fraud button on it. Finally, there is the suggestion of AGR-GPS when weighing champost, because there is also a lot wrong with that. The following motion is based on these suggestions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas effective control of manure fraud is a high priority;]] [[Whereas a number of practical measures to strengthen enforcement have been proposed by the Dutch Food and Waren Authority (NVWA);]] [[invites the government, in consultation with NVWA and the sector parties, to examine which of these suggestions can be implemented in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in order to maintain and promote the export position of the Dutch agricultural sector an adequate system of inspection and monitoring is necessary;]] [[Calls on the Government to maintain the current arrangements for monitoring and export certification with the Central Quality Commission for Dairy Products (COKZ);]] [[calls on the Government to develop, in consultation with industry, a future scenario for quality assurance Animal Sector (KDS) and to inform the Court for the upcoming budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr De Groot and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u4	Then there's my second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the program Blik op NVWA 2017 (BLIK) of the Dutch Food and Waren Authority (NVWA) is in fact the core of the NVWA 2020 change programme;]] [[Considering that the ICT Review (BIT) Office says that the BLIK programme has too high a risk profile and does not consider the NVWA's planning to transfer all 23 inspection domains to the new system by the end of 2019 to be realistic;]] [[calls on the Government to ask BIT to provide a more detailed assessment of the feasibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u5	Certainly, Mr President, and that may remain the case, but I have a question for Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u6	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u7	At least I assume that Mr Geurts had finished his speech. We received a letter today containing the remaining answers to questions that have not been answered in the AA. My question concerns the paragraph on the development of the formation of NVWA and its predecessors. During the general consultation, Mr Geurts was right to present an idea on the basis of a calculation made by him. What does Mr Geurts think of the reply in the letter? We have had a bit of a state in that, but I think that state is far from complete. I would like to ask Mr Geurts whether he shares this with me and whether he wishes to make a request for this to be completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u8	That letter was sent to the Chamber just before this V.A.O. I have been reading it for a while and I have to endorse what Mrs Lodder says: that the state is not complete. I had based my figures on the key figures of the Court of Auditors from 2007, but the ministry comes with a much higher number, almost 300 ft more. That is simply not true: whether the Ministry is right or the General Court is right. So we'd like to hear from the Minister who's right. I am also disappointed that the external hire is continuously omitted from these figures. The number of fte is reduced and it is always said that the NVWA has shrunk and shrunk, whereas in practice that is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u9	This is a VAO, Mrs. Lodders, so if there's a new letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u10	Yes, but it was a letter following the AO, which was also deliberately asked for before the VAO. I therefore support Mr Geurts' question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u11	If it can't be figured out this afternoon, then we should get that answer in writing, as long as we get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u12	Thank you. You were ready? Yes. But there's another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u13	I have another question about the last motion on the role of BIT. I can fully agree with Mr Geurts in substance, but if I have followed it correctly, he would ask the Minister to ask BIT for a more detailed assessment. It seems to me that we, the House of Representatives, can put that question there ourselves. It is a small difference, but I think it is more logical that if we, as a Chamber, want to ask for an opinion, we should do so ourselves and not through a govern ment. That'll save you some advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u14	I can follow that on my own. It could be on that road, but I think the other way is pretty neat, too. I'm just asking the government if she wants to do that. If the Minister's reaction is not to direct the motion to the government, but directly to the BIT, then we will see it by ourselves, but perhaps it will go faster along this path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u15	Thank you. Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u16	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I do have two issues that I would like to hear from the Minister for Medical Care and Sport. The first one concerns cowboy bread. Actually, only whole wheat bread is defined. Other bread is often given a healthier appearance by means of staining. According to the Five Disk, you really need 4.5 grams of cereal fibre per 100 grams, but the consumer cannot see in any way which bread is healthy or unhealthy. It is therefore not clear what spelt bread, multigrain bread and other non-popular bread is. To what extent do they actually meet the Disk of Five? That is why I asked the Minister in the AO to use bakers to increase transparency for consumers by clarifying the rules and their application. The minister said he's working on that. I would like to hear from the Minister when he intends to come up with this clarification. That was the first subject. The other issue is labelling. I'm talking about decoy ingredients. The industry often tries to give a healthy image to certain foods through one healthy ingredient. At the time, the VWS Minister announced an action plan on labelling. That should have been a long time ago. Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS has asked me to raise this point. The Minister says that in a year's time he will write a letter about the progress of the app. But that app is really something other than an action plan labeling. I think this is what business is all about. I would like to ask the Minister to sit down with the business community so that industry itself can tighten up its own code of conduct to counter deception with decoy ingredients. I ask the Minister to discuss that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u18	Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives said in 2011 that it is unacceptable to allow animals to suffer extra because of religion. A large majority voted in favour of Marianne Thieme's law for a ban on the unsedated slaughter. Nevertheless, agreements were subsequently chosen which, as was clear in advance, do not protect animals from severe and, above all, unnecessary pain and stress in the case of slaughter. Unsaturated slaughter is prohibited in the Netherlands, except for religion. The Party for Animals continues to fight for a total ban. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to remove the exception to the statutory ban on unsaturated slaughter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u19	Mr President, I have tabled motions on the ban on mink breeding. From 2013 it is forbidden to expand, because there will be an end to mink breeding in the Netherlands. I asked the Minister to maintain that. Her reaction to the motion was: yes, but we do everything you ask. I have just looked back at what she replied in writing in the discussions on this subject. She says quite clearly: yes, there have been infringements, but it was decided not to maintain them. I would ask the Minister to give a new response to the motion that I have already tabled together with Mr Futselaar, and also to deal with the sanctions. In the written consultation she outlines a number of sanctions. On the basis of the motion I tabled, she says: yes, but we are already maintaining it in that way. That's not right. More severe sanctions are possible than those currently imposed in practice. I would therefore like a new response from the Minister to these two motions. Finally, a motion on fipronil. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fipronil, like neonicotinoids, is highly toxic to (polluting) insects and aquatic organisms;]] [[noting that the NVWA is now allowing Fipronil-poisoned manure to be extended and spread over the land;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the ban on the release of toxic substances into the environment and not to allow the application of fipronil-poisoned manure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u21	Thank you. I shall now go to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u22	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I have just placed an interruption on Mr Geurts' contribution, because I thought it was so neat. After all, Mr Geurts had come to general agreement with this point. But it is something we have been asking for for a long time. That's why I did it that way. As a result of the general consultation, but also in response to a set of written questions from Mr Aukje de Vries and myself, I will not make any motions today, but I will link them both, in terms of information, to the report of the Sorgblader Committee. It is my sincere wish that we can discuss this with the cabinet before the summer. That's a genuine wish. I therefore sincerely hope that in mid-April we will be able to receive the report from the Sorgblader committee. Because we need to take a number of steps, which may well be clear in the context of general consultation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u23	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There will be a few more major debates on the NVWA, on the basis of the Sorgblader Committee on various fraud cases. I think that's the time for some possible motions I had in mind for Minister Schouten, so I'm not going to file them now. This sounds very ominous, but I simply mean that they are substantive motions for Minister Schouten. I do have a motion for Minister Bruins. That's good, I guess, because then he wouldn't have come for nothing today. It is a plea that the Consumers' Association has been holding out for a period of notification of certain abuses in the food industry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, unfortunately, fraud and deception have not yet been banned from the food industry;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the Consumers' Association calls for a reporting obligation for manufacturers and retailers in the event of suspicions of "boggling";]] [[considers that more can and should be done to protect consumers;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a reporting obligation for manufacturers and retailers in the food industry in the event of suspected fraud and/or deception,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u25	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u26	Thank you, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation into the number of delays in the handling of legal matters within the NVWA due to lack of staff and/or lack of (applicable) legal knowledge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to increase (or maintain) the current number of FTEs of the two specialised animal welfare teams of the NVWA in order to address recurrent animal executioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-72]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u27	For the people at home who don't know what a FTE is: that's a full-time equivalent. So that just means a full working week of 38 hours, a full-time employee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make adequate, permanent use of the NVWA during the sacrificial feast,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u28	Madam President. I share what Mrs Old Hand of the Party for Animals said about the ritual torture of animals. I don't eat animals, but if you want to eat them, they must have had a decent death. They must also be dead before being cut or ripped open. That would be so neat. I will support that, too. I have another question for the Minister of Medical Care. He made a promise that he would talk to the carnival boys, to the Dutch Fairground Association, especially to Mr Boots, because that is the spokesperson. I just wanted to ask what's going on with that, because I understand Mr. Boots never heard anything. Finally, I appeal to the Minister of LNV that as a member of the State-General, I have been refused several times at a company receiving money from the Ministry of this Minister. The same was true recently in the case of State Forestry. I made myself known as a member of the States General and had announced my arrival in advance. I was refused. At the LED, that's the same story. They didn't want me in there either. It's really something that is LNV-related and I'm starting to get a little tired of that, because I'm always friendly and nice. I see Mr Futselaar laughing. I may be a little more emotional than anyone else, I'm not a warmed-up dead man, but I'm always decent and I've made a nice announcement. I really think that the Minister should do something about this, because as members of the States-General, we need to be able to control those kinds of farms, especially when it comes to animal suffering. I need backup there. Back in the day, our passes also said that the authorities had to help and support us wherever possible. There's no sign of that anymore. I find that really outrageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u29	Let me not go into the last point; we will wait and see what the Minister's answer will be. My question concerns the first motion. Can Mr Graus give a more detailed explanation of the outstanding cases that it would involve? This came by for me like a black box. I thought, what's this about? I must be able to give my group good advice on whether or not I support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u30	That's right. As you know, I infiltrate into the capillaries. Wherever I can, I'm in and I'm checking. Turns out there's a lot of late work at NVWA. That may also be known to you. The fact that there are delays in the handling of legal matters often has to do with the lack of people. That's why I mentioned it. But sometimes they don't know how to apply the current laws and regulations at all. That also leaves a lot of things lying around. This will also delay it unnecessarily. This has already been admitted by the minister's predecessor. Back then it was with EZ, the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This included the current LNV. That's where it was recognized. So it's really nothing weird. I have tabled a motion on this because I find that little or nothing is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u31	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I also thank you for giving me permission to air my heart for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u33	You always have time to air your heart. Let me see if there is a need for a short suspension or if the directors can respond directly. We need a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u34	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I will also speed up the response. Firstly, Mr Grashoff's motion on item No. 66 on examining the suggestions on how to improve the approach to manure fraud. As Mr Grashoff knows, I have also drawn up a plan of action with the sector itself. There are a number of measures they intend to take to further tackle manure fraud. I have already indicated during the AO that I will review the Fertilisers Act myself. I do not want to anticipate these developments. I'm gonna take a good look at that myself first. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion by Mr Geurts and other signatories to item No. 67 is about maintaining the current supervision of the COKZ and the KDS; let me say it in my own words. The Central Quality Commission for Dairy, the COKZ, and the Netherlands Control Authority Eggs have been designated in the Warenwet as overseers of the dairy and egg sectors. In 2014, in response to the OVV report on the meat chain, the organisation of the system of inspection and monitoring was examined in detail, including for the egg sector. In 2015, due to an interest-neutral organisation of inspection and supervision, the previous cabinet decided to phase back the inspection in the public domain. It was then announced that dairy and egg monitoring tasks would be transferred to the public domain in 2021. That decision should then be taken in 2018, I say to outline a bit of context. There is now an investigation being carried out by the Sorgblader Committee on, among other things, the monitoring of the egg sector. This is also due to the fipronil crisis. The OVV, the Security Research Council, is also looking at all these kinds of processes. In the light of the two investigations currently taking place, I would ask Members to hold this motion now. I would like to start by looking at what Mr Bruins wants to see, and I think that is what is coming out of these two studies and what the opinions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u36	Mr. Geurts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u37	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In this motion we are talking about the COKZ and the KDS. We don't talk about the eggs. There is now a link with eggs and fipronil, but this motion does not refer to that. Can the Minister give a little more explanation as to why the egg sector is being pulled into this at once? That's not what I'm talking about in this motion at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u38	In the COKZ is also the Dutch Control Authority Eggs (NCAE). That is why this is included. The NCAE is in the COKZ. That's why I'm making this link, as I've just tried to indicate. It has to be seen in that light. So my advice is to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u39	Mr President, I am going to think about that. I never really do that in plenary. The Minister was just talking about the fact that the Security Research Council is also doing research. Mrs Lodders was right to speak about the investigation of the Sorgdrager committee. Are these tests coming at the same time so we can actually treat them before the summer? Or are we going to hear just before the summer: Dear Chamber, we do have research from the Sorgblader committee, but we don't have research from the OVV yet, so we prefer not to talk about it for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u40	I think that Mr Bruins will go into the Sorgdrager committee in a moment, because we have been asked when that report will be presented. The OVV report comes after the summer. The OVV has indicated that he will come up with his findings sometime in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u42	Thank you. Then the motion-Geurts/Lodders in part No. 68 on the BIT opinion. There was a BIT opinion some time ago. This has been very useful and a risk profile has emerged. On the basis of that risk profile, the Berenschot report has been requested, which contains recommendations. Those recommendations are now being implemented. If the Chamber needs a new BIT opinion, it can, but there has been a BIT opinion not so long ago, in which we have taken a number of steps on the basis of the risk analysis we have carried out, also in relation to the results of the research carried out by Bureau Berenschot. It is, of course, up to the Chamber, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber in that sense. However, I would point out that this is more of a free tip that we are now working on to see how we can set up the new, revised agenda of the implementation timetable, of the phasering that is to take place. That will be completed in two months. If there would be a BIT opinion, I would advise you to look at it, because then you have something new to look at. I'm not going over it. If the Chamber wants it, the Chamber wants it. Mrs Lodder's question was put in between, because it was raised in connection with Mr Geurts' contribution to the development of the number of FTEs of the NVWA and the legal predecessors. The figures provided in the letter are the figures that the NVWA always presents in the annual reports. That's what we based it on. Those are the figures that we formally bring out. They are in the budget, but also in the annual accounts. I do not know the figures used by the Court of Auditors in 2007. I should take a look at that. I don't know what the assumptions were. If the Chamber needs it, I can clarify it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u43	At this point, Mr. Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u44	Mr President, I came out of my chair a little slow. My comment is actually about the previous point. The Minister's last words lingered a little bit: if the Chamber wants it, she wants it. But I think we're asking the Minister for advice here. If I understand her words correctly, her advice is that it is superfluous, because it has been done recently. There would be no need for such a feasibility study now. That is a different kind of colouring than I see in other motions of another origin. I think there are two signatories to the motion. That's not a majority, not by far. So I wonder what the Minister thinks of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u45	I think I indicated that there has just been a BIT opinion on the basis of which we made a recommendation following a report by Berenschot. I just indicated that we mapped out the risks, so I think we already have a lot of information on them. In that sense, I cannot now estimate whether a new opinion will deliver a great deal. In fact, I think we're pretty good at the risks right now. But if the Chamber still needs an additional explanation from the BIT, then that is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u46	Yes, please continue. I see that Mr Grashoff still wants to respond. Judgement is up to the Chamber, Mr Grashoff. Your name isn't under the motion, either. You asked a question and the Minister explained it. It is further up to you to vote for or against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u47	Mr President, I continue to find this procedurally strange. I think the Minister says that this motion is superfluous. Then she'll have to tell her not to. We've had a discussion with this minister about dealing with motions before, and I don't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u48	But it may also be common for me to think that the verdict is up to the Chamber? Mr Grashoff can find a lot of that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u49	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u50	Yeah, I'm not going into that any further, Mr. Chairman. Actually, I heard the Minister ask the Chamber if we want that information. Yes, we would like that information. The Minister may give it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u51	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u52	Fine, then we will reply in writing. Mrs Ouwehand's motion on item No. 69 is about banning the undisturbed ritual slaughter. This is a restrained motion. As we have already indicated in the AO, the legal obligations arising from agreements in the Covenant are implemented in accordance with religious rites as from 1 January of this year. That covenant was concluded in consultation with the First Chamber after rejecting the bill. Mrs Ouwehand knows that, too. And we only started on January 1st. So this is the deal we made with each other. In that light, I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u53	We're getting to the motion in part no. 70.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u54	Yes, that is Mrs Ouwehand's motion for a resolution on the discharge of fipronil-poisoned manure, as she says. The manure with low levels of fipronil poses a limited risk to insects and bees. The RIVM concludes that the maximum permissible risk levels are unlikely to be exceeded on the land of chicken manure with very low concentrations of fipronil. My predecessor has set a standard for this. This is the same standard that also applies to eggs and meat, and it is the lowest standard that is still easily measurable. The manure from the poultry holdings shall be disposed of if sampling and analysis of the manure has shown that it contains less than this standard. So it's actually being checked and this is being looked at. Homogenisation of farm manure is permitted in the protocol because at farm level no distinction can be made between manure stocks from different stalls. It has also been found that the fipronil in the manure of contaminated stables slowly breaks down over time and that this creates local differences in the level of fipronil contamination within manure stocks. But I believe that this line is not contrary to the agreements we have made on the National Bee Strategies. That's why I advise against this motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 72 by Mr Graus. No, there's another motion in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u55	Is that a restrained motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u56	No, Mr De Groot has tabled motions, but Mr Bruins is going to respond to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u57	They'll be discussed in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u58	No, it's a motion from Mr Futselaar. Excuse me, I've lost count a little bit. Mr Graus' motion for a resolution (Doc. 72 is about the late legal cases. In the AO I indicated that I do not recognise the backlog of 1,000 to 1,300 cases mentioned by Mr Graus. But I am prepared to take another look at it, if Mr Graus so wishes. So we'll do an extra check to see how many of those cases are overdue. But an independent investigation seems a bit much. So I can promise Mr Graus that we will look again at the exact amount of outstanding legal matters, but an independent investigation is going too far in this light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u59	Mr President, I should like to make this motion. Thank you for the Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u60	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (33835, No. 72). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u61	Yes. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 73, on the extension of the current number of FTEs of the two specialised animal welfare teams. I also indicated in the AO that the NVWA has two animal welfare teams with a total occupancy of 35 FTEs. These teams will continue to exist. And because the NVWA operates risk-oriented, the capacity of the animal welfare teams can also be used flexibly if necessary. In the motion, Mr Graus asks me to keep the number of FTEs. Extending goes too far, but I can promise to keep it, because I have already indicated that the number of FTEs will be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u62	That's right, Madam President. The Minister has already promised this, I believe even during the budgetary procedure, but it is now apparent in practice that these people are often not being used at all against recurrent animal executioners. That's why. This motion, too, Madam President, if I may. Let's just wait and see. I am not concerned that I do not trust and believe the Minister, because she has promised it, but in practice it does not always end up there. That's what I'm more interested in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u63	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (33835, No. 73). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u64	The Graus motion in part No. 74 is about sufficient, permanent commitment of the NVWA during the sacrificial feast. That is also the policy. In this sense, this is support for the current policy. There's a check-up. There is no other policy line or anything like that at this point, so I can say that it is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u65	If it is superfluous, the judgment is "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u66	Yeah, in the sense that there's nothing right now that makes it necessary for us to change that now, because it's happening. In that light, I should dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u67	The problem is, I'm talking to vets who have to check that out for NVWA. They say there are no permanent controls during the sacrificial feast. Hence the word "permanent." Mr. Geurts also told me the motion was unnecessary. It is not superfluous, because if veterinarians say it does not happen permanently, then I believe those veterinarians, because they are not going to lie to me. But I will also take this motion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u68	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (33835, No. 74). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u69	Mr Graus also made a comment about his access to State forest management. He also mentioned the LED very concrete. To begin with, I will be sending Mr Graus an invitation this week to go to the LED together, as I promised earlier. Then we can go there together. If Mr Graus has any comments on this, we can discuss it together. Furthermore, I understand that Mr Graus has already been in contact with State Forestry. It is, of course, important for people's representatives to be able to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u70	Thanks to the Minister for the invitation to the LED, but she had already promised that. Thanks for that, but here's what's important. I'm looking at that footage. I'm also analyzing myself, haven't I, perhaps, been too fierce or too hard myself? But on the footage I saw at night, you see that I put my hand out but they don't even shake hands. State forest management always talks to me about hosting: hosting sister and hosting so. I've already had a conversation with State Forestry, where it's already more or less apologized, but it just doesn't work that way. I just don't want to be obstructed in controlling companies that are funded by the State. I'm a very fanatical boss in that. I can imagine that some people hate me a little, but I do do my job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u71	You've made it clear what you think. I think the minister said there's been contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u72	I understand that Mr Graus himself has been in contact with State Forestry. I think that's a good idea, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u73	Yes. You'll be fine, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u74	When the Minister has finished answering the question, I had one more question. I see she's done, but I had asked her to respond to previous motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u75	Oh, yeah, on the mink emotions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u76	Yes. Do you have another answer? Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u77	Yeah, excuse me. Those were the motions that were filed before. I've reflected on that in the AO as well. The effectiveness of enforcement is in the hands of the prosecution. That's what I've been telling you. That determines whether or not to prosecute. That's not me doing that. This also applies to cases from 2016, to which Mrs Ouwehand referred. The owner of a fur animal company in the West of the Netherlands was found to keep more mink than allowed in the control of the NVWA in June 2017. The functional parquet then imposed a penalty decision of €9,000. The penalty decision consists of the profit that would be achieved that year and 100% fine. To put it concretely, this shows that the NVWA is indeed acting against illegal practices. As I indicated last time, illegal enlargement practices will also be monitored in 2018 and subsequent years. For this reason, i.e. that I do not recognize myself in the image outlined in the motion, I did not advise her at that time. That position has still not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u78	We've had this discussion before? I am looking at both Mrs Ouwehand and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u79	In the exchange of views at that time, the Minister said what she was saying, but a little more detailed, namely: what you are asking for in the motion, we are already doing. I've been looking into that. What I'm falling over is this. I am very pleased that the Minister says that illegal enlargement is being actively enforced. What I have sought back are those alleged offences which were then decided that there would be no prosecution. I explicitly ask you to do so. That's what the motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u80	But in doing so, I would point out that it is up to the D.A. to end up prosecuting. That's not up to me. I'd like to continue to use that purity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u81	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u82	And Sports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u83	I beg your pardon? I missed it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u84	And Sports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u85	And sports. Yes, very important. Sure. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u86	I'll be back next week. Then the Paralympics. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to discuss a few questions and one motion. First of all, I would like to say to Mr De Groot that in the AA we have indeed talked about clarifying the term'mere cereals in bread'. At the time, I think I said that we are working on an amendment to the Law on Goods. Mr De Groot asked about the planning. Before the summer, the consultation round, after the summer, starts the legislative process. The start of that amended goods act is then foreseen in 2019. Mr De Groot also asked a question about the labelling action plan. Mr De Groot rightly said that this action plan includes more than just an app. I also meant to say in the AO that I do not want to evaluate that app so much as to evaluate the labelling action plan as a whole. In the meantime, last week, I had a discussion with the Central Bureau for Food Trade, because I not only want to evaluate it in the sense of looking back, but I also want to come up with some additional action points for that action plan, if necessary, next January. The role for business, as Mr De Groot outlined, I also see with emphasis on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u87	I thank the Minister for the clear answer. This is CBL, the food industry. The FNLI has it as an association. My tip: they have the code of conduct to which I referred. So if you're going to work on this, I thank you for that, but I think it's there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u88	It is not my intention that, because I had the conversation with the CBL once, I had the conversations with the business community. I will do so in a broader sense, as will the wider assessment of the labelling action plan. Mrs Lodders asked about the Sorgdrager committee. I have asked again and once again the Lodders Committee... I am sorry; that may take a few more years, but that will also happen one time. No, I mean that the report of the Sorgblader committee can be expected in the spring. I can't get another text about it. In the direction of Mr Geurts, I also say that this is the undertaking of expectations management. The report of the OVV is not based on an order from us, but is an own initiative of the Research Council. If I'm correct, the O.V.V. is planning the publication of his report by the end of this year. I expect the Chamber to say: if we have Sorgblader's report, we will not wait until the end of the year until the OVV report is there. I am not talking about your agenda, but I appreciate that you think this way: if you have the Sorgdrager report, you want to talk about it. Then the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u89	From Mr Futselaar and Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u90	... of which the operative part is: calls on the Government to impose a duty of notification on manufacturers and retailers in the food industry in the event of suspected fraud and/or deception. European legislation already imposes a reporting obligation on businesses as soon as there is a risk of food safety. Companies should notify NVWA that a batch of food is contaminated and take further measures such as the recovery of contaminated lots and the issuing of a public warning to consumers. In addition, the NVWA already has a hotline where everyone can report signals and complaints. Those complaints and signals are assessed by the NVWA. If necessary, the NVWA shall also take measures. In case of suspected fraudulent acts, it is primarily up to the companies to take responsibility. There is also always the possibility to report this to the NVWA. That is why I reject Mr Futselaar's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u91	I think the Minister for Medical Care and Sport has described very well what hole is left. He said that it was the company's responsibility when there were suspicions. I think that as a government you should put an extra layer over it and say: we want a duty anyway. It is there for food safety, but of course that is quite different from other forms of deception and fraud. I think the motion adds something to what we now have. I didn't actually hear an argument why it wouldn't be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u92	I'd like to say it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u93	No, don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u94	I actually thought I had given the right answer, which is that we already have a hotline where signals and complaints can be reported. We're talking about food safety risks. These are the risks to be reported to the NVWA. There's already legislation for that in place. And to set up another hotline for manufacturers and retailers. Those are the companies for which there is already a notification obligation. There is a reporting obligation for companies. The hotline set up for this is at NVWA. I can't make it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u95	Good. Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u96	We disagree on the substance and, in my opinion, we also disagree somewhat on the concepts of'reporting point' and'reporting obligation'. I have the feeling that sometimes they get mixed up in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u97	That's not the point at all. I meant precisely to say that there is a European legal obligation to report. On this basis, a hotline must be set up somewhere. Otherwise, you won't have anything. That hotline exists at NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u99	I have one more question, Mr President. Mr Graus has encouraged me to consult with the carnival associations. The expert people from the VWS ministry spoke to the fairground associations last week, including Mr Boots. That was all about the fact that I remember the subject of the AO well, because one of these inspection institutions has announced that it will stop. That was the subject. It wasn't the last conversation, because it was agreed to follow up. If Mr Graus wanted me to join him in that conversation, I am not the expert, but I would like to try to get involved in that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u100	Mr. Boots tried to approach the Minister for Medical Care and Sports last Monday that was February 26th in Alkmaar. The minister was there with an alderman and he was there at Sportcentrum de Meent. Mr Boots then had contact with the Minister's informant, I will not mention the name; it does not matter, and he promised him that there would be a consultation on Wednesday 28 February. That's what happened. Then a meeting with the minister would follow; he was promised that. That's what I was referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u101	Good. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u102	So thank you. I also wanted to tell you how I got that information. That's because I've been in touch with Mr. Boots.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u103	You have received two fine promises this evening: the Minister will sign off on this and the Minister for Agriculture will accompany you. I'd say count your blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u104	My evening can no longer be broken, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u105	No, I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u106	Thank you also to both ministers for the commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-29.u108	This brings us to the end of this VAO. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I think we can just move on to the next VAO. That's the VAO Animal Diseases and Antibiotics Policy.
