ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr Van Dam has the floor on behalf of the CDA for his questions to the Minister for Legal Protection, whom I would also like to welcome, about the message that outgoing staff at the Dutch Data Protection Authority are threatening supervision of the implementation of the privacy law and related regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by complimenting you on the change of flag in the Chamber. You just specifically asked for it. Of course, as a CDA group, we spent a large part of our group meeting this morning. I dare say that I can say on behalf of the whole group that this is a significant improvement, so I would like to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	That's good to hear, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	This will take 15 seconds off my speaking time, but it is worth it to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'll give you 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, the General Data Protection Regulation entered into force. For one blessing and for the other a curse. Despite a preparation of years, the Netherlands sighs under the introduction of this law. We must give permission to companies and associations to use our data. You have to ask yourself if the photo of your youth team is allowed on the website of the football association. At the church you have to ask yourself whether the announcement can still come from the pulpit that Mrs Janssen is ill. Anyone reading an American newspaper had to see a black field on his tablet this weekend. The GDPR is good, is necessary, but we are struggling with it. Turns out what? We're not the only ones struggling. Last Friday, the media announced that it was a mess with the Dutch Data Protection Authority: emptying, a lame watchdog, lack of sufficient authority and lack of working environment, career opportunities. And perhaps above all, there are questions about the functioning of the board chairman of the Dutch Data Protection Authority: straightforward, self-centered and push-through of decisions. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of the GDPR requires a great deal from the Netherlands. Is it so strange that we ask a lot of the Minister? What will the Minister do to ensure a well-functioning Personal Data Authority as soon as possible? Is it true there's understaffing or emptying? Is the minister in contact with the works council? What is he going to do to ensure that the chairman of the authority motivates, supports, facilitates and does not demotivate his people? Above all, what is the position with regard to the appointment of the third member of the college, even if my own amendment to the implementing law? Who's on the buttons to appoint that third college member? Is that the minister, or is that the chairman of the college?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, the GDPR entered into force. That was a special day. It gives people additional rights to access their private data and calls for greater transparency and accountability. In other words, this leads to more protection of personal data. On the same day a message appeared in the FD that, when I opened the newspaper in the morning, I saw a bit as a damper on the joy of celebrating. I must tell you that, even after discussions I made with the chairman of the Personal Data Authority in connection with the newspaper article of course, I see it all a little less gloomy. Let me give you an example. As regards the emptiness that is being written about, I understand that eleven officials have left the organisation since May 2017. But this contrasts with the fact that in the same period 54 new employees have been contracted in and another 10 new employees will soon be added; on balance 50 new employees. The fact is that saying goodbye to someone also means saying goodbye to a lot of experience, especially if those who have walked longer into the organisation. But the new employees bring all new impetus, new energy and new experiences, for example because they have gained experience from comparable supervisors, in legislative processes or in the European circuit. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam asks what I will do in the near future to keep my finger on the wrist. Of course, I'm also having conversations about how things are going. Especially when there's a message coming, you're extra alert. You're also reading criticism in that newspaper article, including some lawyers from not the least law firms. The Dutch Data Protection Authority has itself indicated that, as soon as the substance has descended after its introduction and the first few months have passed, like many other organisations in the public administration, it is going to conduct a kind of stakeholder analysis or a customer survey to ask a bit wider than just the two or three sources cited in the article how people look at the functioning of the Dutch Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	It's nice that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is going to conduct a stakeholder investigation, but I don't need it at all. I just think they should get the tent in order inside the toko. I would very much like to know from the Minister. I have already asked in the first term how that third member of the College is going to be appointed. I think some....how shall I put it? It can help to ensure that the Authority functions properly. Another point I would like to ask the Minister is how the implementation of the Koopmans motion on helpful enforcement is being shaped. What citizens in this country need right now is for their questions to be answered. I think a lot of people are willing to submit to that new GDPR, but they need help with the questions I asked at the beginning. How is this motion being shaped? Surely it is a well-known fact that the task of the Personal Data Authority is extremely broad? It goes from consulting through information to monitoring and enforcement. I sometimes have the feeling that people want everything, they want everything, they say to everyone: come to us with your questions and your comments. I'm looking at the National Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has the model that you ask if your comments should first go to the administrative body that hurts you. If that doesn't work, you can go to the National Ombudsman. At the Dutch Data Protection Authority everything is currently open to anything. This leads to problems, even with the news in the newspaper, without any doubt. So I would like to hear from the Minister how that third member of the board is being implemented. And I would like to hear from the Minister how the motion on assisting enforcement is implemented, a motion tabled by Mr Koopmans, who has been supported by a large number of parties and groups in the Chamber. I'd like an answer from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Van Dam himself tabled an amendment to extend the College in the debate on the law. Since then, preparations have been made for this. The Dutch Data Protection Authority shall carry out the recruitment and selection in consultation with the ABD. It will eventually be proposed to me, to take the decision formally. This recruitment and procedure will be running very soon. The second is: how do you ensure helpful enforcement? I myself am very happy to see that the Dutch Data Protection Authority has also indicated its intention to be a reasonable enforcer. They do so in a number of ways, for example by spending a lot of time and attention on information. I have also heard from many companies and associations with questions that they could go there for hand-outs and for specific questions by telephone. Two. Last Friday, the Dutch Data Protection Authority also presented its supervisory framework. In recent months, it has been mainly about the need for everyone to comply with this law, which is actually true, and indeed, they have indicated that they are going to focus on three sectors in the specific enforcement and investigations, namely government, healthcare and data dealers. I'm not going over it, but I think that's understandable priorities. And the third one is... that is unique in the Netherlands.. that we know the instrument of the burden under penalty payment. Or is it the burden of the penalty payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. It's all
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yes. You don't have to impose a fine immediately, but you can say to an organization: "I want you to correct it and get it right. If you don't, you'll get a fine. But if you do it right, we don't have to impose that fine." That too I think is a way of working that actually fits very well with the Dutch context. This is without prejudice to the fact that if someone is deliberately negligent or throws the hat at it, the direct fine can still be paid. The law offers the possibility of doing so. But it also gives an instrument to the authority to, a bit in line with that helpful enforcement, where there is no serious intent in the game at least to allow organizations to get things in order in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u13	Locking up. I do not hear the Minister explicitly replying to the question of how he sees himself involved in the appointment of the third member of the College. Well, that's kind of in the authority. That's what worries me. This is what I'm talking about. Make sure those AP professionals are in front of the cart, not behind it. And make sure that benevolent citizens, which are most citizens, are facilitated to comply with the law. That's what matters to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u14	Well, then you've made up for the 15 seconds you've spent on the flag. Thank you. The Minister may reply, but it was a call from Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u15	I did not hear a question in it, but I support Mr Van Dam and agree with him that there should be support. But there can also be an effort from organisations, big and small, to simply comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u16	Then I will go to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u17	We really can't have trouble with the Dutch Data Protection Authority right now. The task is far too important for that. We need a privacy watchdog that can bite when it's necessary, but can also explain to people what's going on: what's allowed and what's not allowed? But of course, they don't have enough people to do that. There are 120 people employed by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Facebook alone employs 25,000 people, who actually have the task of processing as much data as possible. That is the earning model: data is money. And that's just Facebook. How is that possible with 120 people? Does the Minister recognise that the capacity is seriously lacking in our privacy supervisor? And what is the Minister going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think that Mr Van Nispen's conclusion is premature. As I have just said, the Personal Data Authority has grown considerably in recent times, and it will continue to do so in the coming period. Last year she received an additional 5 million for the expansion of tasks. In 2019 another 2 million will be added structurally. I have indicated that, of course, over time, we must see if that is enough, but that is very difficult to say at the moment, because we are in transition. The phone is red-hot with a lot of questions. If it's right, over time, it gets a bit out of hand and it becomes clear how the law should be translated into organizations. Organisations are increasingly ready for this. That's a moment to see if this will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u19	In the course of the legislative process, there has been a strong debate and motions on the position of small businesses and institutions have been tabled. That is what my question is about. How does the Minister see implementation for small businesses and institutions? On the one hand, you can see that they are making a great deal of effort, but sometimes uncertainty persists. Large investments will then have to be made in order to meet the alleged demands of the law. Would the Minister care to reflect on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes, I see Mr Van der Staaij's point too. I also see that sometimes there are companies that make another move along the line of: "A great ghost is coming at you. It's called the GDPR. You've got a lot to do for that. If you don't, you're risking such high fines that you can't pay. But I have the solution for you, because for so much money I drive into an army of consultants who will arrange it for a while." I would really like to refer all those organisations involved to the website of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. They can also go to their industry association, because it tells a much more real story about what is needed. That story is that the GDPR has a risk-oriented framework and risk-oriented supervision. That means that if you have a lot of data, you have to take care of a lot and that if you have very little personal data, the work is really manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u21	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Dam for reminding the Koopmans motion about the helpful enforcement, which is indeed about this issue. It must be maintained, but in a situation where many standards are still a little vague, the authority must help in particular so that small organisations and SMEs in particular know where they stand. I would therefore like to say that I co-signed Mr Van Dam's motion on a third driver. That means someone from the office is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u22	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u23	There is also another Koopmans motion on the evaluation. The Minister has taken over that motion. Does the Minister therefore wish to include these problems in the evaluation, which is already taking place in the very short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u24	In line with Mr Koopmans' suggestion, we are indeed going to evaluate this in a somewhat shorter time frame. This means, however, that we have to return to Brussels, because it is a regulation that we have one-on-one translated into Dutch law and regulation. We don't have much room to deviate from that. That's one. The second point concerns small organisations. If you look at the enforcement framework, the priorities given to you by the Personal Data Authority, I do not read that they are specifically looking at small sports clubs or football clubs next year. It focuses on government, healthcare institutions and data dealers. These are three sectors that I think are quite right to ask for careful handling of private data, or because they have a lot of them, or because they make money from them, or because they are sensitive data. This is without prejudice to the fact that any organisation must comply with the law. However, I really do not have the impression that it is the priority of the Personal Authority to make life difficult for small SMEs or small associations in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u25	My colleague Van Nispen spoke about the budget and asked whether there was not too little money. The Minister said this was very premature. I wonder if the Minister isn't chasing the facts, because, as he said, the phone is red-hot. People now want to know how to implement that law. The risk is that people can't handle it properly and the law actually gets a false start if we can't enforce it properly. There has been an investigation in which it has been said what the minimum required budget is. That is absolutely not being achieved, so even the minimum budget has not been made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u26	And your question is, Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u27	My question to the Minister is whether, with all the discussion that is going on about whether the authority is an attractive employer, it could not be that the lack of a budget...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u28	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u29	... makes sure she doesn't bring in enough people to enforce the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u30	I don't have those signals. I see, on the contrary, that people are very keen to work at the Personal Data Authority, and that not the least people are being brought in. So I don't have that signal. The question is, of course, whether the extra money we have given the authority is sufficient in time to carry out the tasks properly. But that is very difficult to determine at the moment, because we simply don't know how many complaints are going to come in on average, how many enforcement requests need to be made, and what the workload is for the Personal Data Authority if the additional questions that are now there make sense, because of the introduction of the Personal Data Authority will soon be removed. At that point, about a year from now, we're gonna start the conversation: how's it going, and can you do it with this, or maybe something extra is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u31	It is good that this question could be asked and that the Minister could also deal with certain issues so extensively. I agree with CDA and VVD when they say that third college member needs to be there. I agree with everyone who says: be less focused on football clubs and SMEs, and start with the big organisations with the greatest responsibility. That's what the Minister says. Mr Van Nispen and I have often talked about the budget. But this question was, as far as I am concerned, about the situation with the authority. I've heard a lot from the Minister. I was very happy with a lot of the things he said. But my question to him is: what can he do to ensure that this independent supervisor, where things are still going on, gets things in order and can answer as many questions as possible from the country? I think that is the key question that Mr Van Dam has put in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u32	But that starts with the analysis. It starts with the question of whether you simply take over what has been in the FD, or whether you also ask the organization: what is your response to that? Then you're really getting some other signals. Of course we'll keep our finger on the wrist. I also welcome the broader investigation announced by the Dutch Data Protection Authority about how it is seen by a number of key stakeholders around it. That gives us valuable information. That is what we can talk about. But the picture that there is a huge drain and that there would be no expertise in the house to do the job well, I simply don't recognize at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you.
