ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. This year, too, I will start the General Financial Reviews with a few simple statistical data. I am doing this in the same way as before and, as in previous years, I come to the sad conclusion that the jubilee moods of the Cabinet, the Millions Note and the Macro Economic Recognition are completely out of place. For Henk and Ingrid, in all that macro-economic juggling, you can best look at the disposable income of households in the Netherlands. And everyone's noticing, it stays behind. According to Eurostat, we are far behind the EU average and the neighbouring countries. If you take a moving average over eleven years, the comparison for the Netherlands will not be better but worse. In 11 years, disposable income in the Netherlands has now increased by an average of 0.7%. This is considerably less than in the neighbouring countries and significantly less than in those countries which take little or no asylum seekers such as Poland and the Czech Republic. A causal relationship seems obvious to me. The first headline from the Millions note could therefore instead say "The Netherlands is doing well but there are also risks," "The Dutch are not doing well and there are also serious risks." For macro economic recognition, I would like to change the title "The economy is thriving" to: "The economy is thriving but the Dutch are bleeding." Mr. Chairman. Firstly, the growth rate of the economy is actually misleading. This growth is largely determined by migration. In recent years, immigration has given the Netherlands about 80,000 inhabitants a year. These are, for the most part, asylum seekers and travellers who, although they are merely pottering, do count in the economy, as well as migrant workers who, above all, push low-skilled workers and reduce wages. Then we still have the natural growth of just over 20,000 a year, which is all about immigrants and almost exclusively non-Western immigrants. And that while the indigenous population is shrinking slightly. Together an annual growth of the population of around 100,000 people. That is as much as the municipality of Venlo where I live, to stay close to home: city Venlo with all the surrounding villages every year. Together, an increase of 0.6% in the population per year, and this growing population, on the one hand, simply makes the lavage thinner and, on the other hand, these newcomers largely live on benefits. From what remains, the ordinary Dutchman doesn't notice at all because of all the increases in charges. Mr. Chairman. I ended up with the infamous purchasing power picture. You know, that point cloud that's made up of as many grains of sand as it takes to throw people in the eyes. It is a graph, this time on page 69 of Macro Economic Recognition, which needs a separate annex to understand it. Usually a graph is needed to see what's going on at a glance, but not here for a while. This graph is mainly intended to cover how the increases in the low VAT rate, the energy tax and the ODE work out. This time the ODE is not a poem in which an elevated subject is sung, but the tax storage of renewable energy. All meant to finance the meat pots of Egypt, in this case the subsidy jars. Mr. Chairman. In addition, please publish the most recent publication of the CBS on purchasing power and we will see that last year half of the population went down. What it will be like in 2019, we have to wait, but the government really leaves a chance to improve that purchasing power, especially by increasing the low VAT rate if necessary. Instead of improving purchasing power, Rutte III itself drives up prices by increasing the low VAT rate. This is a measure that affects all families. Mr. Chairman. Put the collective burden pressure under Rutte II from 36% to 38.7%, Rutte III has only just begun or the collective burden pressure is already rising from 38.7% to 39.2%. Not an endogenous increase, but a policy one. Both families and companies see an increase in taxes and premiums in 2019. The total policy burden increase for taxes and premiums in 2019 is 5.3 billion euros, as we read in the Macro Economic Recognition. For families, according to the Macro Economic Recognition, this is an increase in premiums and taxes of EUR 800 million on balance. For abroad, this cabinet initially had a charge relief of 2 billion in the form of the abolition of the dividend tax. But we were lucky enough to get rid of that veining after that text from Unilevertopman Paul Polman; that had more influence than the bunching coalition mates. You might ask yourself who rules this country. This is an excellent opportunity, you might say, to undo that other blunder, namely the above mentioned increase in the low VAT rate from 6% to 9%. The cost of undoing this 2.4 billion increase can almost be covered by the non-depreciation of the dividend tax, especially if you consider the 8 billion surplus in the budget, which we already know is getting bigger. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to my annual big point of displeasure: the extra financial misery that this cabinet also means with the same VAT increase for the border region. At municipal and provincial level in the border regions, the sitting parties play the murdered innocence when it comes to the deterioration in competitiveness caused by the government, but here in The Hague none of these parties seem to care about the problems in the border region. This increase in VAT causes a considerable additional impact on the family budget everywhere, but in the border region the position of small and large retailers is even worse. Shame! In this context, I also have a question for the Minister. Is in the 2.4 billion that the VAT increase is due, if I have correctly calculated €308 per family which the government parties pretend to be peanuts taking into account the reduced turnover in the border area? If so, how much is this and how many small middlemen are going to die again? Mr. Chairman. I come to the cost of climate madness, called energy transition by the rest of this Chamber. The biggest problem with this issue is that we are dealing with a new religion. Rational arguments do not matter at all. As a result, any discussion in the largest possible air bike business degenerates by this cabinet, which consists entirely of believers. Meanwhile, the citizen pays the bill. More than five years ago, I interrupted the then Minister of Economic Affairs who explained that 16% of energy consumption had to be renewable energy by 2020. I asked him then to indicate how this objective could be achieved globally without extreme financial consequences. In 2013, we were 4.8% of the renewable energy consumption. Now I know that the 2020 target has been wisely adjusted to 14% and the 16% target now stands for 2023. Still insane and economically irresponsible. After billions of subsidies have been pumped away, 5.5% of total energy consumption is renewable; 0.7% higher. In addition, we need to know that SDE+ has been in force since 2011 and that it currently burns some 6 billion a year, to be coughed up by Henk and Ingrid. The climate effect is, moreover, if objectives were to be achieved, 0.0. Mr. Chairman. A few important points that are systematically put under the table by all climate fantastes are the following. 51% of the consumption of energy sources by industry is covered by non-energy consumption. The energy carrier is used to make a product that is not an energy carrier. The energy used for the production process remains present in the product. The use of oil as a raw material for plastic or natural gas for fertilizers, for example. In that case, we consume those hydrocarbons, but not their energy. If this industry is to continue to deliver the same production, saving 10% on their hydrocarbons actually means saving 20% on their energy consumption. Two. 20% of total energy consumption goes to bunkering of foreign ships and aircraft. So we can't do anything about that, unless you want to speed up the breakdown of the Netherlands as a transport country. Three. The comparison with countries like Norway and Sweden is completely flawed because they put a turbine under a waterfall and are done. Target alternative energy achieved. We don't have waterfalls. Mr. Chairman. We have come to know this Minister as a colleague as someone of good common sense. My question is: when is he actually going to use it as a finance minister and stop this waste of money that is going to ruin our prosperity? Mr. Chairman. I'm on pensions. For years we had the most fantastic pension system in the world. If you ask a random Dutchman today what his pension is like, he or she will look questionable. Trust in the pension system has been completely shattered. The cause? According to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, almost exclusively the absence of indexation and reduction of benefits, with direct consequences for the purchasing power of 65-plussers. But also for current workers, as they are projected to have a lower pension after retirement. Is that because of our pension system? No, it's just this and the previous cabinet. Total pension reserves increased from 683 billion at the end of 2007 to 1,338 billion at the end of 2017. If we look at the premiums received, they are around EUR 30 billion a year. Slightly more than pension benefits, which fluctuate around 28 billion. This means that pension reserves almost exclusively on their return have doubled in ten years. With the banking formula, which our finance minister is undoubtedly familiar with, we know that at a doubling time of 10 years we have an average return of 7%, in this case for all pension funds together. What kind of sane person can think that we will then have to discount pension funds' pension liabilities by 1%? Of course, it is useful to use a certain margin of security. Before 2005 we had the fixed calculation rate of 4% for the calculation of pension liabilities. That seems to be a very reasonable percentage, just because that is the average of 7, the actual return, and 1, the percentage of all eurofele Draghi supporters. However, 1% is a completely absurd accounting rate for the liabilities of pension funds. And what's it for? No one who knows the problem understands it. It all gets worse when a whole range of fog and smoke curtains are pulled up, like: we're all getting older. That's what we've been doing for 100 years. Another argument: the economy can run counter to it. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about an average return in ten years. That is why both age growth and the dip in the economy are already reflected in the figures just mentioned. No wonder many pensioners just feel conned. Let us see what happens if, for example, we now decide to increase pensions by about 10% that have been taken away by those pensioners with ruse and deception in recent years. This means that next year's pension funds' assets will not increase by 94 billion, i.e. the return of 7%, but the total pension assets will increase by 91 billion. I would like to hear from the Minister when he is going to put an end to the widespread spread of fake news around pension funds and work towards a reasonable rate of calculation. Mr. Chairman. If you are young and if the Dutch want to start a family, you will also be made as miserable as possible. In the Millions note we read: house prices are rising. That's if you can buy another house at all. Because the state has done everything it can to make that difficult or impossible. The Hillen Act has been abolished, the deductibility of mortgage interest has been cancelled, the maximum loan amount has been reduced and you continue. And how this rise in house prices is caused, I will come back to that. But if Henk and Ingrid are on the list for a social rental house, then they're really getting their asses kicked. These social rentals are virtually non-existent. What comes with it, through purchase and new construction, is allocated to status holders in the context of the population conversion of the Netherlands. Read about population development the recent articles by our chief CBS demographicist, Prof. Dr. Jan Latten, who has not been in public service since retirement, can now just say what he wants. If you ask the housing corporations to clarify the number of social housing that is allocated to status holders, you can shake the answer. One might ask: why is there no openness here? But the Minister of the Interior also states, in answer to questions from the Lower House, that he does not know. So we have to calculate what we have ourselves. During the period 2014 to 2016, 76,510 status holders, largely of Syrian nationality, have flowed from asylum seekers' centres to municipalities. Most of them will have moved to a social housing unit, often with several people together. The COA assumes an average of 1.7 per house. This means that in the period 2014 to 2016 45,000 social rental homes were allocated to status holders. The number of social rental homes that were added and purchased during that period is 52.000. While there has been a huge shortage of social housing for many years, 86% of the number of annexed and purchased homes thus goes to status holders. What happens next is that a small part of the people who are actually entitled to a social rental house with loans, of family and so on, enter the bottom of the sales market, thus pushing up the prices at the bottom. Then it is the investors in homes, who seem to come across in the best families, who are causing a further upward price pressure on the housing market. My question to the Minister is: what is he going to do in the financial sphere to promote housing needs in both rental and purchasing sectors? Mr. Chairman. I am thinking, for example, of making an exception for housing corporations, where, according to Aedes, the reduction in interest relief is going to cost EUR 300 million. Is the Minister gonna do anything about that? Mr. Chairman. I arrive at the waste and abroad and foreigners. I have already mentioned the 6 billion in climate subsidies which are intended exclusively to make good decoration abroad. They don't care about the climate anyway. What will become more frustrating is that foreign countries do not care at all about us. A few dozen kilometers away from me, on the German side of the border with Limburg, lies Garzweiler II. That's a brown coal mining area. Perhaps you have heard of this, because some Greenpeace boys and girls have recently fallen out of a tree protesting. But Garzweiler II can continue, also under the responsibility of the ministers of North Rhine-Westphalia of the Greens. But, yes, this is 40 000 jobs, of which 12,000 are directly involved in Rheinbraun. Although the whole of Germany is already full of windmills, it is not possible to do so for obvious reasons. Therefore, 25% of electricity is generated in lignite-fired power plants. That's because Angela was shocked once and then the Kernkraftausstieg decreed. For North Rhine-Westphalia, which is largely adjacent to the Netherlands, the percentage of lignite power is even 40%. Thus, where Germany, with the cooperation of the Greens, is throwing an extra scoop of lignite on top of it, a VVD minister wants to take us off the gas and we have to pay blue for climate subsidies. How much left can the VVD be? Furthermore, 4 billion a year goes to corrupt regimes in Africa, 8.5 billion to Brussels and 7.5 billion to benefits for 600,000 non-Western immigrants, which we have mainly because it has to be from Europe, or through other devious treaties where we have been messed up. If the signs do not deceive, more billions will soon be sent to Brussels. To arrange all this for the European elections, otherwise the people would get involved again. Dozens of billions of lost money. And we'll soon get Italy. On this subject, my question is to the Minister who he is going to agree to soon. The populists in Italy, at our expense, or the populists in the Netherlands, who believe that each country is entitled to its own financial and economic policies, but above all not in the euro area and preferably not in the EU. Mr. Chairman. It has to be and it can be different. If it is up to the PVV, we will stop the billions of wasted immigration, climate hysteria, development aid and Europe that have just been mentioned. Then there is money not only to allow the VAT increase to continue, but to bring VAT and excise duties to the same level or below that of our neighbouring countries. Then there is also money for our health care, for lowering rents and for our elderly. Money for the Dutch. I await the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I will give the floor to Mr Wever, but before I do that, I will first press the button to say that this is a maiden speech so that everyone can come here. Mr. Wever, you have the floor. You know you can't be interrupted during your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today I am allowed to make my maiden speech as First MP for the VVD and at the General Financial Reviews. A better moment is hardly conceivable. After all, at the moment you may not be fulfilling the most famous task of the First Chamber, namely to check legislation, but you also have the opportunity to discuss what our country's household book looks like according to the cabinet, how your group looks at it, where possible risks are present and, finally, where your group would like to place a different emphasis. By the way, let us start with the concept of 'housekeeping booklet'. At home we talk about what comes in on salary, allowances, etc. and what we spend on living expenses, clothes and food and drinks, on average making sure that we spend less than we come in, and also saving some money and saving for more difficult times. Reading the Millions Note and Macro Economic Recognition will not give the average citizen the feeling of a household booklet with expenses and income, but rather the image of an economic dissertation for cum tray graduate economists about the state of the financial situation in our country. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether, despite the high level and quality of the documents, the cabinet would like to work in the coming years to improve the legibility of the documents for the average citizen. I am strengthened in this by the opinion of the Council of State, which states that in the coming years the General Financial Reviews should focus more on the notes of the Planning Offices, which will bring the reflections into a broader perspective than merely giving figures and focusing more on what those figures are going to mean for our citizens. Of course, financial solidity must remain at the forefront of the VVD. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group in the First Chamber is generally positive about the Millions note and the state in which our country is located, even though today we will once again have a major debate on the percentages.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For us as a VVD fraction, the glass is at least half full. We are supported in this by the various planning agencies. The CBS reports that the broad prosperity in our country is high. According to the SCP, optimism is growing in our country, as is confidence in the economy. The CPB reports in Macro Economic Recognition that consumer and producer confidence is above the long-term average. And the PBL says that the quality of life has improved on many fronts. We also see it in the figures in the millions note and the Cordelia, such as more than 6 billion reliefs, increasing purchasing power, economic growth of 2.6%, public sector investment and so on. And finally, we see it in several studies in which the Netherlands scores well every time. The Netherlands has the best work-life balance in the world, according to the World Economic Forum. The Netherlands is the number 3 press freedom in the world. The Netherlands is in the top 5 of the most competitive economies in the world. The Netherlands is among the 6 most innovative countries according to the EU. And so on and so on. On almost all lists we are in the top 10 with the Scandinavian countries. We would like to keep it that way as the VVD Group. That is why I would like to comment on the following points in future. - Maintain and strengthen our locational climate to maintain our top position. - Risks we see around the themes climate, care and international developments. - A responsible financial policy in order to remain healthy in the coming years. First of all, our locational climate. Both the Millions note and the Cordelia, as well as several international reports, show that the Netherlands has an excellent locational environment. We have a highly skilled workforce, we have good infrastructure, we have macroeconomic and political stability and we have an attractive environment for doing business and investing. Our group therefore welcomes the fact that, in addition to reducing taxes and premiums for both citizens and businesses, this cabinet is investing heavily in health care, police, defence, education and infrastructure over the last few years in the public sector, not only in extra agents, hands on the bed and teachers, but also in raising salaries and strengthening equipment. Despite our understanding that investments in the public sector in 2018, for example in healthcare and defence, have not been fully realised, the VVD Group would like to hear from the cabinet how it is going to ensure that this problem will not play again in 2019. We are also wondering whether the government's investment in the public sector will also increase investment in reducing the regulatory burden in, for example, health care and police, which actually puts the funds to be invested in bed, de facto actually lead to a minimum of 750 district agents active on the streets, to less absenteeism in the police, to more hours for the classroom and, therefore, to more jobs in society. We therefore call on the Cabinet to give an insight into the profits that can be achieved by actively investing in reducing regulatory pressure. With an economic growth of 2.6% in 2019, an increase in consumption, more investment, a fall in unemployment to 3.5%, growth in our exports, an average increase in purchasing power of 1.5% and a decrease in government debt to 49.6%, the framework conditions are excellent to further strengthen our locational environment and keep the Netherlands at the top of international competition, which is crucial in times of uncertainty due to international developments such as Brexit, possible trade wars and Eurozone unrest due to the Italian fiscal problems. Investing in the economy through innovation and research is, in our view, the most important prerequisite for creating structural improvements in the labour market and a further reduction in unemployment, and hence a reduction in social security expenditure. A crucial decline, as we see in the Millions Note that social security expenditure, partly as a result of an ageing population and hence an increasing call on the AOW, will remain very high in the coming years. Improving our business environment can only be achieved by further stimulating our economy, on the one hand by reducing taxes, such as corporate tax and by specific measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, such as labour costs, working costs and sickness payments. We therefore support these measures, as well as the room that the cabinet creates for real additional investment in the economy. However, on that last point we would like to receive a little more clarification on the following points. - In Macro Economic Exploration, climate, energy and digitalisation are seen as promising spearheads for investment. Has the cabinet also identified these sectors as promising? How does this take place in the investment area provided? - Research and innovation are best served by low regulatory pressure, a multidisciplinary approach, such as a triple helix, and providing space for start-ups and scale-ups. How is the cabinet going to promote space for this way of innovation? Finally, the VVD Group wonders to what extent the government's investment area is seen as a form of co-financing, on the basis that industry, education and research also contribute substantially so that a multiplier effect can be created? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the positive tone in the Millions note that we endorse, the VVD Group also sees clouds on the horizon. I would like to discuss three risks that can actually have a significant impact. A first point of attention in our budget concerns expenditure on care. Partly because of the ageing population, healthcare costs have increased significantly in recent years and we are also seeing an increase in the budget in the coming years, despite all measures. We welcome the intervention of the VWS Minister in the previous cabinet to reduce the increase in expenditure. We also welcome the commitment of the current leaders to continue this and to take measures to control expenditure in the care sector. In the end, measures such as the main line agreements with the GPZ, the GPs and the specialists and the agreements on the cost of medicines have had a positive effect on reducing the growth of healthcare expenditure. At the same time, however, we read in the media that it is messing around with the main agreements. We also read that the Council of State is concerned about collective healthcare expenditure and recommends that steps be taken. We also note that certain medicines are poorly or difficult to obtain in the Netherlands, precisely because of the same government measures. We therefore ask the Minister to give an insight into the way in which the cabinet intends to keep the growth of healthcare expenditure and thus the sustainability deficit at an acceptable level in the coming years. We reiterate the question we raised last year in the General Financial Reviews in this Chamber, namely whether the Cabinet is prepared to consider the possibility of an ex ante linking of healthcare expenditure to GDP development. We are curious whether the Minister has already discussed this with the CPB. A specific point of attention to our group concerns the development of youth care in municipalities. We remain of the opinion that the transition in the care and transfer of tasks in the area of Wmo, youth care and participation from Rijk to municipalities has been a good thing. We also attach importance to an integrated approach to the above-mentioned areas of work close to the citizen, to the strengthening of preventive measures and to the greater use of family care. This is precisely what municipalities are specifically equipped for. However, in the area of youth care, our group also sees struggles in municipalities, partly due to the fact that the transformation to a different way of working takes time and therefore also costs money, while also achieving a austerity mission. At the moment we see that, on the one hand, deficits in the budgets for youth care and, on the other hand, delays in the accres of the Municipal Fund, including the failure to realise the government's planned expenditure in 2018, force many municipalities to make cuts in the full breadth of their budget. By the way, I also see in my work as a consultant municipalities that have success in a creative way. Also on the other side of the House of Representatives, attention has been paid to this problem. As a result, the Minister of Finance replied on behalf of the cabinet that he was prepared to enter into talks with the municipalities. Now we always welcome it when a ruler is willing to talk, but in this particular case we would like to know whether this willingness also extends to a temporary willingness to give impetus to the transformation, or not. give incentives to municipalities that operate excellently. Mr. Chairman. Another concern for the VVD Group is the developments surrounding the climate agreement and in particular its implementation. The Planning Office for the Environment welcomes the government's climate policy, but also notes that the necessary transition must be "fixed, directional and flexible" and that the costs and burden-sharing under the climate agreement still have to be met. We wonder whether the Minister can give us any sense of what the cabinet means by the terms 'directive, directional and flexible', and if not, when we can expect that. We are also curious about the way in which the cabinet wants to work with other governments, industry, research and education institutions, and what this means for the cost of government, businesses and citizens. Of course, we would like to know more about the costs and the distribution of these costs, but without the agreement and realistic implementation plans there is undoubtedly nothing to report on this at the moment, even though we would like to hear from the Minister when this can be presented. The VVD insists that the plans must be affordable, manageable and cost-effective. We believe that there is a need for urgent action, not least in view of the statements made by the Council of State, which talk about the major social consequences of climate change and the need for European coordination. And beware of the latter; that must not, of course, lead to delays. Mr. Chairman. I come to the last part of my reflections, a responsible financial policy towards the future. The VVD Group attaches great importance to a long-term sound financial policy and to a government well prepared for less rosy times. The experience of the past few decades has shown us that changes in the economic situation can be very rapid. The risks that we see internationally around us can bring about such a change. I would stress once again that the VVD Group welcomes the state of our country and many of the plans presented by the cabinet. However, as has already been mentioned, we are also facing major risks in the future, such as the economic situation and the impact on social security and care budgets; the Brexit and its impact on our exports and on our climate of establishment; possible trade conflicts, let alone conflicts surrounding arms treaties; the Italian budget and its impact on the euro area. In addition to these risks, we also see the European Union's proposal for the future Multiannual Financial Framework, which is of great concern to us. Despite the efforts of our cabinet to pay less money and a smaller budget due to the departure of the United Kingdom, the Commission is performing to lay down a framework with a higher budget and a higher contribution to the Netherlands. A top Dutch official in Europe, the Finance DG, felt that the Netherlands should not be petty about this. However, a presentation recently in the Joint Committees on European Affairs and Finance by foreign and finance officials shows us that the net contribution of the Netherlands is supposed to increase by 25%, in my view, even 30%, i.e. 2.5 billion a year. What do you mean petty? Our question to the Minister is twofold. What is the government going to do to prevent this increase from becoming a reality and how promising is the government in this regard? Has the cabinet, if it does not succeed, created a buffer to cope with this increase without the need to increase costs or cut costs? The IMF's chief economist stated in the NRC of 9 October that growth is not self-evident, not even in the Netherlands, and that it is advisable to create buffers in good times. The Minister said in the House of Representatives that it is difficult to find a balance between investment and reducing burdens and putting public finances in order and keeping them in place. We understand that. However, we also see that we pay 5.6 billion in interest per year and that, despite the decline in our public debt, it is still significantly higher by 49.6% than before the start of the crisis in 2008, when the percentage was 43%. We also see that the costs for the WIA and the AOW are increasing and we expect this to continue in the coming years. In view of the good economic conditions we are currently experiencing, this increase in costs is offset by a reduction in expenditure on WW and assistance. In the event of a change in the economic situation, for example as a result of one of the risks I mentioned earlier, we are directly faced with a sharp increase in expenditure and forced intervention by the cabinet. In view of the healthy state in which our economy is now in, and the statements made by the IMF's chief economist in our view, we therefore ask the Minister whether he can give us an insight into the way in which the cabinet is active in buffering and taking measures to deal with any future setbacks. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with a quote from the famous economist Keynes, not really the home economist of our VVD. "The political problem of humanity is to combine three things: economic efficiency, social justice and individual freedom." In our view, with this Millions note, the cabinet has worked out this combination well. We are curious about the answers to our questions, because we do foresee that despite the blue sky some clouds are gathering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Wever. Hold it right there, please. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You have studied public administration at the University of Amsterdam, in particular the legal and administrative direction. After graduation, you worked in various positions at several municipalities, before becoming secretary of Parkstad Limburg, a partnership in Southeast Limburg in 2001. At the same time, you were also secretary of the Oostelijk Zuid-Limburg employment services. Since 2005 you have been working at the BMC Group in Amersfoort. BMC is a consultancy firm that focuses on the management of the government. You started out as a senior advisor and then became manager and director. From 2012 to 2015, you were once again involved in regional cooperation. You then worked as interim secretary-director for the city region KAN, Node Arnhem Nijmegen, which means KAN. Since 2017 you have been the director of PublicSpirit BMC. On PublicSpirit's website you have the motto: "Working together costs money; not working together capital!'. Very appropriate today in this debate on the Millions Note. In addition to your work and membership of the First Chamber, you are chairman of the XONAR Supervisory Board, which specialises in youth and education aid in Limburg. You are also a member of the Supervisory Board of the Chair of Innovation and Cooperation at the University of Twente. Within the VVD you have been a member of the scouting committee of the VVD in Limburg since 2017. Membership of the First Chamber is your first function as a People's Representative. In your spare time, you like to run fast. Thus, I understand, you have, among other things, written down the Seven Hills on your palmares. You also like winter sports whether that is really sports or just hiking I don't know about traveling and history. Once again, welcome. We look forward to your further contribution to the First Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment to give the honourable Members the opportunity to wish you luck with your maiden speech. I'll be the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u7	The next item is the continuation of the first term on the part of the Chamber of the handling of Bill 35000, Millions of Note 2019. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Well, here he came: the first private budget of the cabinet. We've had to wait almost a year for it. But how disappointing the result! Not that the Millions note should be compelling reading, but you're hoping for a story that you're taking with you in this cabinet's plans to make this country better. And then you don't have to agree with those plans. But what plans and ambitions does this cabinet actually have? After reading the Millions note, I can't get much further than everyone finally does now, and now we really did come back from the last time we had to find out that the economy is doing well, that public debt still needs to be repaid and that, of course, we need to continue working on a good locational climate. And that's it. Yes, as a reformist opposition party, you are disappointed. Last year I expressed the hope in this place that the first budget would really be extended to the opposition. But again I do not see that hand, although I do not want to rule out in advance that it is happening today. After all, I know this minister as someone who also likes to seek cooperation. Full of anticipation beats our hearts, you say in these days. The cabinet must then be prepared to change its vision. The real problem for us is not the apparent lack of vision, but the vision behind this budget. Behind the technocratic vocabulary of expenditure ceilings, sustainability balances and so on lies an ideology which ultimately, as my group chairman also argued in the General Political Reviews, makes this cabinet a failure in its ambition to make this a budget for everyone. In addition to the usual state debt fetishism, the ideological core of the financial and economic policy of this third Rutte cabinet is still in a neoliberal policy that, when it comes to it, adds itself to the supposedly compelling logic of the market and the demands of capital. It is therefore a policy that gives up its own primacy and rather runs on the leash of the economic elite, a leash that draws us into a race to the bottom rather than a road up to greater human dignity, equality and solidarity, the political values leading my party. The CPB also recognises in its macro-economic explorations that the increased freedom of capital leads to competition between states, including tax competition that erodes the tax income of governments worldwide. Do the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State agree with the CPB? If so, why does this cabinet choose not only to participate, but even to lead the way in the race to the bottom by lowering corporate profits taxes even further than was already envisaged? Is that really because the Minister fears that companies will relocate or stop investing here? Don't we give in to economic blackmail, I ask the Minister? Isn't that a capitulation policy against capital? Mr. Chairman. It was such a capitulation policy that led this coalition to have conceived the absurd plan to throw 2 billion dollars a year by abolishing the dividend tax. And that for a cabinet, this minister in the lead, who likes to take the lead on prudent fiscal policy. It is the same capitulation policy that led this cabinet to withdraw the measure after only one text from Paul Polman, after a lot of opposition in the Second and Upper Chambers. What a sadness this whole dividend debacle. It's a politics that's showing itself up. A policy that hands over to Shell and Unilever's boardrooms. The same capitulation policy made this cabinet decide to exchange one gift to business for another, as if it were a gift voucher. Because, yes, there has to be a 'attractive package' for business, and we have to have a 'attractive locational environment' for companies that have it in mind. So we are now going to bring corporation tax to a rate of 20.5%, well below rates in neighbouring countries such as Belgium, Germany and France, where the profit tax is about 10% higher. And this is with the argument that we must remain 'competitive' towards those countries. How does the Minister and the Secretary of State feel that other countries, which obviously also want to be "competitive," will respond to this? And where does this trial end? The average EU VAT rate decreased from 35% at the end of the 1990s to 21.3% in 2018. Now the Netherlands dives below that average, which will be even lower. Will that be another reason for further reduction, especially if other countries follow our bad example? The further reduction of business tax amounts to a total of 3 billion annually from 2021 onwards. That's gonna cost us 3 billion a year. Do the Minister and the Secretary of State really think it is justified to give away so much money to business every year, which makes a profit again? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the conservative world view of Rutte III, there are multinationals that are "earning money for us" and we must therefore commit ourselves to it. And it is one time that these multinationals can go and go wherever they want, so we have to adapt to their demands rather than the other way around. I call on this cabinet to jump over its own shadow and take the cow by the horns once by recognizing that capital has become far too mobile, that neoliberal globalisation and European integration have given it too much freedom of movement, at the expense of our society, of our people and of our democracy. Countries are played out against each other in the struggle to raise and retain capital. And against this capital, workers and trade unions are losing more and more power and influence. This process has been strengthened in the Netherlands by the total flexibility of the labour market. In the Millions note we read that too much flexibility can have negative consequences for the earning capacity of the Netherlands. Can the Minister confirm that this is the case now? And does the Minister find it a problem with us that, in our flexible labour market, wages, after years of stagnation, are still lagging behind economic growth? If so, what does he want to do about this? Mr. Chairman. In a country in which politics dances with capital and invests too little in the community, in people, the division has been increasing for years and the unity has declined. It is a division that is expressed, among other things, in the fact that, as we read in The Social State of the Netherlands, people with lower education and lower income are less positive about the Netherlands and where it goes in our society, and also have less confidence in politics than educated and better deserved. And that also makes sense, because with that first group things are also not as good and it is this first group who paid the price for the crisis and who now has the least cause for optimism. These are people who are concerned about high rents and are now faced with a reduction in the rent and a personal risk of care that they can no longer pay but that this government refuses to reduce. These people had already been promised during the last Princess' Day that they would finally find out that the crisis was over. But they came out again, deceived. And what does this cabinet do for these people and for this division? I would like to hear it from the Minister, because I have not been able to read much about it in his Millions note bar. In any case, this cabinet is not doing anything about reducing inequality. Even in percentages, low incomes are again lagging behind the rest next year, with an expected increase, if any, of 1.1% for incomes up to 150% of the minimum wage up to around 1.7% for the categories above. In hard euros, there are even greater differences. What message should this take? I ask the Minister. That the thicker the wallet is, the more euros are added? Does the Minister think that's fair? Instead of introducing this flat tax, which this cabinet chooses and which benefits above all from higher incomes, we should, as far as we are concerned, increase taxes on the highest income. And even if we do not make the system fairer but simply abandon the debilitating two-wheel system, it will save 3.9 billion on next year's budget. About the absurdly high capacity inequality in this country, according to my colleague Reuten's research quoted in the SCP report, the greatest capability inequality of 27 OECD countries! I certainly don't hear this cabinet. A problem that would be easy to tackle, for example by increasing the tax on assets above 1 million euros, as proposed by our party together with PvdA and GroenLinks in the Lower House. Do the Minister and the Secretary of State recognise that this extreme power inequality is a problem, or do they think that there is nothing wrong with a situation where the richest 20% owns as much as 81% of all wealth and the richest 1% around 28%, if it is no longer? Opinion polls show that three quarters of Dutch voters, across all parties, would like a more equal distribution of wealth. Does the government agree with this large majority of the population and, if so, what measures does it intend to take to reduce this great lack of capacity? I'd like a response from both regiments. Mr. Chairman. While the wealth at the top of the year is growing in, year out and the economy has come to full steam, many people in the Netherlands are not coming out of the poverty they have been in for so long. Recently, an SCP report showed that the number of poor in the Netherlands, including many working poor, has even increased. You can't explain that in a time of high economics, can you? How does this minister feel about that? Few, at least if we take the Millions note, where the word 'poverty' only occurs four times, of which twice in an international context. We only read about poverty in our rich country that "a growing number of people are worried about poverty." It is difficult to avoid the impression that the members of this government do not belong to that growing number of people who are worried about poverty. But that surprises me from this minister, because that's not how I know him. At the time, my group was very pleased with his support, at that time as a colleague in this House, for our motion on child poverty. This is unacceptable, even though we have been out of the crisis for several years, and hundreds of thousands of children are growing up in poverty in this country. Everyone in this room, from left to right, agrees on that. That is why the aforementioned motion has also been followed up by a motion calling on the government to introduce a reduction target on the reduction of child poverty. When I asked the Minister during the previous General Financial Reviews about the implementation of that motion, he asked for patience, because the motion had only just been adopted and the cabinet had just begun. We've moved on for over a year now. Our patience is running out, as we have also stated in the General Political Reviews. The Prime Minister said he could understand that, but asked this Chamber to wait until the beginning of next year. Does the Minister share our view that we really need to deliver next spring so that the reduction target is implemented and the number of children living in poverty in this country is significantly reduced? And, Mr President, where the greenhouses of the highly profitable business sector are even more affected by the Vpb reduction, the daily messages of those who are already not wide become more expensive by increasing the low VAT rate by 50%. This is one of the reasons why we have doubts about the purchasing power of the cabinet. In my group's view, these could be different for many people. It would be good if the effects of the VAT increase would finally be properly mapped out. Mr. Chairman. The division also appears on the housing market. A division between tenants and buyers, and also between people who already have their own homes and people who still have the hope of becoming homeowners but for whom this is increasingly made impossible, partly because of the increasing role of real estate investors who buy up houses massively and then rent out in the free sector. The necessary new construction of social housing in many places in our country is in danger of falling apart, as housing corporations will have to pay more corporate tax in addition to the totally counterproductive landlord's tax. This as an unintentional consequence of the in itself desirable limitation of the interest deduction. This will cost the corporations 300 million euros a year. There are now two months' rents a year going to the tax, in a few years' time there will be three! The corporations in this way have so little money left that they can no longer make the agreed investments in new construction and sustainability of their housing stock. Does the Minister recognize this problem? And, if so, what is the government going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr Van Apeldoorn raises a legitimate problem: the complete delay in the construction of new rental homes. As I mentioned in my story, another problem is that what is being built goes to status holders. Can the SP say a little more about that? What does the SP think about the fact that this has created a very large proportion of the problems in the social rental market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u10	I think Mr Van Strien is turning it around now. He needs to find the troubles where they are and where they can be solved. The problem is a lack of sufficient social housing for anyone who needs it in the country, whether they are status holders or Dutch people who have lived here for a long time. That's not the point. The point is, there's plenty of houses. That's the problem. That's been the problem for years. I believe that Mr Van Strien and I agree. That is a problem arising from choices made by this cabinet. I don't think anyone has been helped, not even the non-status holders who are looking for a social rental house, if we go into some sort of scapegoat politics by saying "it's the status holders who steal the rentals." If enough were to be built, this problem would not have occurred at all and Mr Van Strien would not have been able to ask this question. Once again, I think we need to solve the problem by making a proper analysis of the problem and tackling it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u11	I fully agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that too little is being built. By the way, too little has been built for years. Accelerating construction also does not solve the problems in the social rental market in the short term. At any rate you stay for years, really years, with deficits in social housing. The question then is whether status holders should have a right of priority vis-à-vis the native Dutch. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u12	As far as I am concerned, the social housing market is intended for those people who need it and I do not want to distinguish between status holders and native Dutch people or whatever kind of Dutch people, as you call them. Social housing is meant for those who need it. People who hold status are also entitled to living space. They have been granted a status and are therefore entitled to a decent life in the Netherlands. That is the point of principle for me. Next, our analysis is "fine," which I believe we share with the PVV Group, that there has been far too little construction in recent years, and that current policies, including the reduction of interest subsidies, will perhaps make it even less difficult to build compared to what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u13	Finally, Mr. Van Strien, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u14	I note that the SP may soon give everyone priority to road crossings. That's the same thing you're saying now. Everyone has priority over a social housing unit. That is not the case, at the moment status holders have priority over native Dutch. This means that they are particularly affected by the problems in the social rental market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u15	We're repeating ourselves. As far as I am concerned, this discussion is different from the one that is currently under discussion. We are now talking about the long-standing lack of social housing through underinvestment. We must do something about that. The debate which Mr Van Strien would like to have is not, in my view, the one that is currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u16	I would like to support the idea that the status holders here are not really the cause of the problem. This also applies to interest relief. I would like to point out to Mr Van Apeldoorn that this heavier tax burden on housing corporations is actually something that bites into his own tail. This leads to less production and thus less tax payments from the same corporations. One could also imagine that an intensive investment programme could lead to higher state revenues. Would you like to reflect on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u17	I believe that the limitation of the interest deduction as an unintentional consequence of the ATAD, the directive that combats tax avoidance, should also be seen in conjunction with the landlord's tax. The SP Group states that if housing corporations opt for more investment in sustainability and new construction, then for example the landlord's tax can go down. In the end, it should be abolished as far as we are concerned. But this would be a first step, as was also proposed in, for example, the Lower House by our group and also by Mr Postema and Mr van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u18	Proceed, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as combating climate change is concerned, and in my group's view, the Dutch ambitions in this area that is so crucial for our future are not yet far enough away from creating a new division: a division between ordinary people who have to pay the bill but can't do so or hardly, and the small elite who can afford to drive electric or install a heat pump; and a division between citizens in general who have to pay for the necessary transition, and the large companies responsible for most emissions but are still being spared too much. On the contrary, we even give free allowances to companies like Shell. Then where is the climate justice? I ask the Minister. As far as my group is concerned, we are replacing this system entirely with a CO tax for companies. Then it really is the polluter who pays. Mr. Chairman. Whether it is fair sharing, the elimination of poverty from our society, affordable housing or climate justice, the quality of our society is only partly caught in growth figures, in statistical averages such as purchasing power figures and so on, and certainly not in GDP as the benchmark of our prosperity. That is why my group was also pleased with the initiative taken by Mr Ester and Mr Sent-Often also called Mr and Mrs Ester today to ask the planning agencies to provide an annual comprehensive analysis of our prosperity and well-being. And we hope that in the future we will also be able to see a wider reflection of the cabinet on this every year, in accordance with various motions in both chambers. What also belongs in such an analysis is the state of our public sector, a sector that is essential when it comes to our prosperity in the wider sense, but that public sector is not good for it after years of balding by previous Cabinets. The need for a catch-up after that blow will be confirmed by almost everyone, but my group believes that we are still not seeing enough of it with this cabinet. The investments currently being made are totally inadequate to begin with the reversal of the destructive mega-savings of around 50 billion in the past few years of crisis. Mr. Chairman. It is not for nothing that the public sector has taken action. In addition to POinaction, we also got WOinAction and now the whole public sector has revolted. But this cabinet prefers to increase business profits even further by lowering the Vpb rather than ensuring that teachers, teachers and nurses are not only paid properly, but also do not succumb to the increasing workload. Is the Minister taking the signals from the public sector seriously, as was the case recently, when thousands of people went to the Dame de Janeiro? I sincerely hope so, because this is really where the future of our society is at stake. Mr. Chairman. If something should strengthen the plea to curb capital rather than allow it to move freely, then it is the lessons of the financial crisis. But what lessons has this government learned here, more than ten years after the fall of Lehman Brothers? We don't read a lot of reflection on this in the Millions Note. Have we really restored the financial sector to serve the real economy and society? My group believes that much more is needed for this. For example, we have been talking for years about the need for higher buffers for banks, but now a 3% requirement is being introduced at EU level, while the Netherlands still had a 4% commitment. How about that, my group wants to know. And when will we finally move on to the complete division of the business and utility parts of banks, at the time one of the central recommendations of the De Wit Committee? Why aren't we hearing about this anymore? What we hear of all of a sudden is the EU's own budgetary capacity, which is back on the agenda after Macron and Merkel seem to have agreed on this. How is the Minister going to keep that devil in his box once and for all? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. A budget that lowers the tax burden on businesses and at the same time increases VAT for daily messages by 5%, which increases the differences by introducing a flat tax that benefits higher incomes most, which opts for the race to the bottom rather than the road up to a more social Netherlands, which prefers to give away money to business than to invest more in teachers, agents and employees in care, who does not opt for a fair climate policy by allowing the polluter to pay, who does not oppose division in the labour market, in the housing market and in our society in general, and who does not think that reducing the government deficit is more important than reducing poverty among children, such a budget is not the budget of and for everyone, as this cabinet claims. Instead, this is a budget that mainly serves large companies and their shareholders. It is not a fair budget, and as far as we are concerned it is time for justice and therefore for other choices. The chances of reaching agreement are small, but I look forward, as always, to the reply of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr President. The national budget for the year 2019 looks good. It reflects a period of economic growth. There is a surplus in the budget for the third consecutive year, public debt is falling and unemployment is low. This despite the fact that the gas tap is reversed and there are significantly less revenues. Then there is additional money for education, defence, security and infrastructure. A fine achievement of the rulers of finance and the rest of the cabinet. This budget is in a long tradition. Those who oversee a series of years can see that the Netherlands has a solid budgetary tradition. For decades, there has been a trend towards fiscal policy, the reduction of public debt and the adoption of structural strengthening measures. This budget and this Millions note fit into the school of Ruud Lubbers and Wim Kok, two former prime ministers who died this year, who designed this country's financial and economic policy in an excellent way. Formatist and former Minister Gerrit Zalm can also be satisfied to note that his inheritance is well managed. Because of this tradition of solidity and structural strengthening, the Netherlands is well placed. We are high in all relevant international comparisons. Our economy is competitive, education and care score high, as well as infrastructure and pensions. The Dutch population is generally happy. The macro figures are impressive and, as I said, they are the result of a combination of austerity and structural strengthening measures. The latter may be a multitude of things. Those who have looked over the recent past can recognise a common thread of reforms in the areas of social security and care, investment in education and physical infrastructure and tax cuts. Many of these adjustments have been made in consultation with civil society organisations. An important factor in our country's economic success are institutions that help to determine an effective course of action. In economic terms, the Central Planning Office is particularly important. It keeps us on track when it comes to sustainable policies in the longer term too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u22	I hear Mr Van Kesteren say that the macroeconomic figures are fantastic. There are also a lot of fantastic macroeconomic figures, but purchasing power has fallen far behind the rest of Europe in recent years and far behind the countries around us. Why don't I hear the CDA about that? I thought the CDA would be a little more involved with the people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Van Strien, the CDA is very involved with the people themselves. I will come to that in a moment when I come to the issue of pensions. You will then recognize a great deal of what you yourself have said. An economy is not only there for companies and for the upper layer of the population. I very much endorse this point of departure. A country needs a good welfare state and associated arrangements. That is not a point of discussion. It is difficult to define a good line at the point of purchasing power. Of course, purchasing power must increase, of course, but we all know, you too, that purchasing power plates contain a great many subjective elements. I have always looked at this with some scepticism in my working life, and that is why I do not explicitly mention the concept here either. Almost always it turns out that purchasing power plates don't add up. There's not a lot of generalities you can do about that. I agree with you that, given the crisis that we have had, if you look back a few years, purchasing power is lagging behind. This has to do with tax measures needed during the crisis period. It also has to do with the fact that a government's ability to develop wages in industry is different from that in the past. You can see that the position of unions has become less strong. You can find anything you want. I personally do not think that is right, but it is going on and so collective agreements have less collective outcomes than in the past. So I agree with the point that purchasing power needs to increase, but you cannot only point to the government if that purchasing power is less developed according to the figures. Moreover, we must also see that, since the crisis is over, purchasing power has increased again, which makes sense. You will see that, too, in the coming years, in the results of the working conditions consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u24	I was not talking about purchasing power cards, because I also mentioned that those point clouds darken more than they bring light. I am talking about a development over a long period of years in purchasing power, a negative development in relation to the countries around us, which is still not being addressed by this cabinet. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u25	So I argue that the cabinet can do so much about this. The government is introducing a new tax system and is also looking for ways to reduce taxes on labour. These are steps that go in the right direction. Furthermore, we must, of course, look at how this is developing in the real economy. As you can see, I'll be there in a moment in my speech, too, so that the many appearances of zzp'ers also give a different picture of reality. The reality that exists abroad is completely different from ours, because our labour market is also very different. So I don't think you can easily make that comparison either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u26	Finally, Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u27	One last comment as far as I am concerned. Mr Van Kesteren pretends that the cabinet is powerless here. One of the measures directly affecting purchasing power is the VAT increase in the low rate. One of the measures that really intervenes in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u28	You also know that this increase in VAT has been used to reduce taxes elsewhere. So it is also, I think, one-sided as you propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u29	We may also be able to talk about the VAT increase, but I would like to go back to a point that Mr Van Kesteren just made in his reply. He mentioned the decreased bargaining power of trade unions in our polder. I have heard Mr Van Kesteren make the point, also recently in the newspaper, that he regrets it. Well, that's where the CDA and SP groups find each other, that we see that the labour market is actually out of control, when it comes to relations between employers and employees. My question to Mr Van Kesteren is: does he or does the CDA group also have an analysis of what this is about and what it might be about, including from national policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u30	It would take a long time to make that analysis here in extremes. I do have that analysis. In essence, the decline in the membership of trade unions, the individualisation of trade unions, the flexibilisation of trade unions, has shifted the negotiating relationship. I think we are at a point where that is no longer in balance. Exactly how to fix that is a question I don't have a direct answer to, because you can't force people to join a union. That's very difficult. There are employers' organisations in this country that are working to increase the membership of the trade unions. You also know that a great deal of money is being paid by employers to support the trade unions financially. So it's very difficult to avert that story in general. I'll be right down the road in my story about the position ofzzp'ers and the fact that we are also socially inadequate there. So I think we're not far apart from each other in the analysis of the problem. But I do not have a recipe available to directly influence the balance of power in the labour market, because that is ultimately based on people's free choice. I am surprised that, for example,zzp'ers do not organize very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u31	I think that the implementation of the SP election programme would be a long way to go when it comes to restoring the balance of power between labour and capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u32	Yeah, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u33	But this aside. I just wanted to touch on what Mr Van Kesteren just said about flexibilisation. You call that a few times now, but that's not a natural disaster that happened to us, is it? Isn't that what we're here for? The flexibilisation is also the result of certain political choices that have been and are still to be made here in The Hague. That has something to do with national policy, doesn't it? In that sense, we have a responsibility for that, don't we? So does Mr Van Kesteren see any connection there? Because the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has also found that the number of permanent jobs has decreased since 2008. Wouldn't it also be a responsibility of the Hague policy to reverse that tide? That flexibilisation didn't just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u34	No, but this flexibilisation is not only based on the greed of capital but also, to a large extent, on free choices that people make, when it comes to being a zzp'er. I acknowledge with you that there are, of course, differences between stronger and weaker parties in the whole ofzzp'ers, but you should not underestimate how many people I come back to later on really consciously choosing to be a zzp'er. This is without prejudice to the fact that I agree with you that the government has opportunities to intervene in the labour market. This can be done, and there is, of course, also legislation in the area of the labour market that is ahead of us. That is what we should be discussing at that time in order to determine whether the measures are sufficient to regulate flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u35	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u36	Finally, on this point. Mr Van Kesteren talks a lot aboutzzp'ers and I also recognise that there is a part of the problem there. But it is also about the imbalance between fixed and flexible employees who simply have a contract. As I said, the number of fixed contracts has fallen steadily in recent years. My question was whether there is a task for politics and whether Mr Van Kesteren has any thoughts on this. That's also part of the flexibilisation that went through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u37	Sure. I agree with you. As having permanent employees entails more obligations for entrepreneurs, the choice of flexibility will be greater. We need to find that balance. That's what legislation is about. I think that we should then see in this Chamber whether we really think that balance is being achieved or whether it remains in balance, what it is. Mr. Chairman. It is very important, especially at this time of populism and shaky political majorities, that there are institutions that make the facts speak on the basis of sound analyses. The CPB's Macro Economic Recognition 2019 is an interesting and valuable document because a number of sober facts are displayed. A few examples that dampen the delusion of the day. As far as housing is concerned, the CPB says: in the short term, the shortage in the housing market is continuing, but in the medium term, the supply of housing can keep pace with demand. That is a rather surprising observation when you follow the media and everything that is said about it. Can the Cabinet respond to this? Another fact that the CPB refers to is that there is no displacement of Dutch people by foreigners on the labour market. The CPB writes that work provided by migration is complementary to domestic labour supply. No unimportant information at these times, where xenophobia is lurking. Presenting the facts is extremely valuable at a time when facts free policy is becoming increasingly common. This is a dangerous trend because of the ever-present gap between political reality and reality as experienced in the football canteen. Mr. Chairman. Dealing with that gap is the biggest task facing our order. Measures we take must be measured not only by their economic effectiveness but also by their potential to reduce differences in society. Back to the budget sec. The cabinet moves on the path of structural reinforcements. The most visible is that so far in the area of tax revision. In other areas, such as pensions and climate policy, there is still not much tangible to report. First of all, the taxes, which, of course, are dealt with in the context of the Tax Plan. We have, let me put it mildly, done the history of dividend taxation. In view of what I have just said about bridging differences in society, the proposal to abolish the dividend tax was unfortunate. From an economic point of view, there was a number of points to make, but the proposal could not stand because of the contradictions it raised. The proposals currently on the table are more balanced and contribute to strengthening the economy, also in the context of the already existing tax environment of SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr Van Kesteren is talking about a more balanced proposal, but I do not think that is the case at all, because it is the same 3.3 billion that has been earmarked for business and not for families and citizens in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u39	I also meant balanced with regard to the economy. The proposals that have been made, the tax reduction, are aimed at strengthening the economy. Reducing corporate tax, for example, has learned the past, is one of the most probate means of strengthening business. It is not just about international business, because a misunderstanding is often that the Vpb is paid only by multinationals. But the Vpb is the tax that all slightly larger companies pay. So if you do the analysis, as the Cabinet does, and I agree with that analysis, it is good to continue to strengthen the structure of our business environment in a high economy too, then it is wise to reduce corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u40	Strengthening the structure for the entrepreneurial environment can be done in many ways. If you look at the competitive index, which we are always very high on in the Netherlands, and you look at the indicators, we are talking about indicators such as education, which you yourself mentioned, infrastructure, safety and good housing in the country, as important factors for locational climate and for business. What I am opposed to is that term 'balanced' when you are talking about an investment of 3.3 billion structurally by this cabinet. That is more than in any sector in this coalition agreement, for business. That does not seem to me to be balanced in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u41	That's a matter of appreciation, isn't it? I consider the measures between large companies and small businesses to be balanced, and I believe that it is also balanced to continue to opt for the long term in the total amount of public expenditure. That long-term demand is that you keep the business strong. Because without business, we don't have many other things, and it has to go on. You can't say that business is doing just as well, so let's not lower those taxes. Because there's never a good time to lower taxes. If things go bad, there's no money for it, and if things go well, there's no need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u42	Finally, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u43	You are now suggesting that the only way to make business strong in the Netherlands is to give them tax dollars. I'm resisting that. To be honest, I also think that this is a little intelligent and structural solution. A race to the bottom was rightly mentioned when it comes to European tax cuts in the Vpb sphere. Shouldn't this strengthening not be the kind of thing that invests in the people who make business possible, who are working every day for that business? Isn't that a much better investment than 3.3 billion douche bags?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u44	I oppose the term "doucers." "Doucers" means giving something to people who don't need anything. I don't think that's a good term. I agree with the observation that the locational environment, the business environment, embraces more than just taxation. There must be good infrastructure, good education, good health care. That's all true, but you can't say: if we do that and we don't do anything about the taxes, then we've done it. A package of measures is needed and I believe that this cabinet has put in place a balanced package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr. Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u46	The GroenLinks Group shares the appreciation you have for the facts provided by institutes such as the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau or the Central Planning Bureau. You also referred to it in relation to the fact that it is actually going quite well with how the housing market is developing. It is precisely the CPB that gives that to.... and how it is going in the care and on all kinds of other fronts. I am therefore surprised, and that is the question I have to ask you, through the President: how come you suddenly give less value to the facts of the CPB, when the CPB finds in the exploration our locational environment, our business environment is actually fine and there is no reason to believe that taxation is now the most important factor for that climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u47	I appreciate the CPB, but I don't have to agree with everything from the CPB. I'll be on the subject of pensions in a moment. I have a rather different view of that too. But I base my approach on the experience I have gained in business that it is ultimately about taxes... It's not just about multinationals. It is also about family businesses that are the hard core of our economy. It is clear that, if the tax burden on these companies can be as low as possible, they will have more money to invest in this country. That is what motivates me and what also makes me take the view that I take, namely that you should not think that you are there with one particular tax rate. You must always try to leave companies the room to invest, because that is essential for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u48	A sequel to that. What always surprises me about this discussion, including the one on dividend taxation, is that at some point something like'my experience' or 'the feeling I have with it' or 'the gut feeling' or something like that comes out, while I think we have extremely good figures and indicators on many other fronts. Mr Postema also referred to all the indicators that indicate that the Netherlands scores exceptionally well in terms of locational conditions and that in fact the defence of 'we have to reduce taxes' means 'trust my experience or the feeling that I feel that it would be sensible for companies to do so'. On what basis do you make the choice on which facts of the CPB you trust, which you simply accept as such and which you say: I am going to make a number of comments on this, because that may be something else? What difference does it make if the CDA Group is the weighting of which part of the Central Planning Bureau suits you and which part is less convenient for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u49	Well, the last one suggests that we'd shop opportunistically in the CPB reports. That's not true. Look, you can't deny me the right that, given that I've worked in business for 30 years, I know what the trade-offs are about taxes and other location factors. At the heart of my argument is that a tax rate that is as favourable as possible for companies ultimately leads to economic prosperity and thus to employment and thus also to means to keep the welfare state affordable. That's the pride of business I'm following. Previous tax cuts in this area have also shown that a favourable VPB rate has positive effects on economic growth and hence employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u50	Following this. I was pleased to note that both the CDA and the SP groups are again in agreement, namely in the opinion on the proposal to abolish the dividend tax. Mr Van Kesteren felt that this was ill-advised and ill-advised. We are, of course, very much in agreement with that. I do wonder whether this alternative plan for the further reduction of the Vpb tariff has now been considered, because that plan was already coming within a week. Well, that's kind of the suggestion of a gift certificate. Following on from what my colleague Binnema has just said, we must now obviously rely on the judgment and feeling of business people, including Mr Van Kesteren, who has been in business for 30 years, while all the analyses show that the location climate in the Netherlands is excellent. But even if we now go along with what Mr Van Kesteren has just said, namely that, as he has just said, it is very important for business that there is a favourable tax environment, then for me the question is: where does it end? If you're talking about "balanced," how do you weigh it against the risks I've identified in my own contribution, from a race to the bottom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u51	Yes. Well, there are risks. I think it is good to look at the concept of 'wide prosperity' in the coming years, too, and I would like to come back to that. How can we shape the relations between the various interests in this country? So I don't deny that it's unwise to lower taxes indefinitely. We agree on that. But I also think it wise to keep a small head start on the countries around you. That's not unwise. We need to strike a balance between nihilistic politics on the one hand, from tax cuts to very low levels, what you see in some countries, and an intelligent attempt to do the net a little better than the surrounding countries. That is what I think is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u52	Yes, but Mr Van Kesteren also knows that in other countries, such as France or Germany or Belgium, there are people like Mr Van Kesteren, with 30 years of experience in business...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u53	Yes, there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u54	... who say the same thing, who also say: it seems wise to us to keep that little head start? And what if Germany or France, in response to us, lower their rates? Then what is the story of Mr Van Kesteren? Then we have to take another small step underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u55	Not always.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u56	That's the race to the bottom, isn't it? He can't explain that any other way, can he? The logic here is crystal clear, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u57	Yeah, that logic is crystal clear. It's always about the size. I admit that I am no more in favour of endless tax cuts in the international context than you are. We shouldn't do that. It will not happen, because I see the opposite happening from Europe. You should then be pleased as a corrective factor. So I see that happening earlier, but I still insist that a certain good merchantship has done good service to the country in this regard too. Our economy is stronger than the economy of France or Belgium, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u58	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u59	I therefore understand from Mr Van Kesteren that we must hope that the merchants of the neighbouring countries, the Van Kesterens of Germany and France, will be less influential than you are here, and will not take that step every time, because then we will be able to keep that lead. That is ultimately the analysis or policy that Mr Van Kesteren stands for. Well, that seems extremely unwise to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u60	Okay. Thanks for the compliment. Mr President, I shall continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mr. Schalk would like to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u62	I would like to return to a slightly earlier part of Mr Van Kesteren's speech which has something to do with this. He indicated in a nice way that it is good that the abolition of the dividend tax did not go ahead and that at least the plan that is now under way is much better. He indicated that this made it more balanced. I assume he meant that it has come to a better balance with the people of the Netherlands. How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u63	Well, I think this tax reduction strikes a balance between the various types of companies in particular. This is a business tax. So is the dividend tax. The abolition of this will not take place, so the money will end up with a wider group of companies. That's what I mean by balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u64	It is therefore in particular more balanced for business. Can we also make the battle for what that means for the citizen in the Netherlands? I assume we are looking for the good for all Dutch and not just for business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u65	Sure, but all right, we have different types of tax cuts. We also have the reduction in income tax. I said earlier that by ensuring a balanced burden on business, the conditions are created for good economic development and thus for good employment. Isn't that the basis of working for the public interest when it comes to the economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u66	Proceed, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u67	The introduction of a two-tier system of income tax and the corresponding reduction in tariffs also strengthens the economy. A comment fits in with the measures on the DGAs. These measures are negative for the group concerned, but existing cases are not addressed. It seems that this is the case because the Tax Administration cannot handle this in terms of implementation. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. In this context, what is the general state of implementation of the Tax Administration? Are things back to normal? On an earlier occasion, I pointed out the often underestimated importance of the proper implementation of regulation. This is where it gets bad. Think of the recently discovered failing control by the UWV of benefits to Polish workers. What do you think this does to the gap between The Hague and the football canteen? I come to the point of the other structural measures, first of all for the labour market. There's a bill that we'll discuss later. I therefore confine myself today to the position of the self-employed without staff. They have a relationship with today's subject through the tax measures. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group attaches great importance to social balance in the labour market. It is not right for people who become disabled as a result of their work to get into assistance. There is an urgent need to put an end to this situation, but how to do so without risking overburdening our social security system? In anticipation of any further measures, it might be advisable to regulate, at least in the short term, the essentials of social security for workers and small businesses. That's not the pension, because we have an AOW. That is not the short-term absenteeism either, because this is part of the entrepreneurial risk. However, it is essential that they are insured for permanent incapacity for work. For this we have in our country the Income Facility Completely disabled. This is a benefit that one can get if one can no longer work and there is no or a small chance of recovery. This provision is very delimited and has little chance of abuse. Wouldn't it be obvious to requirezzp'ers and small entrepreneurs to be included in this system? Then we don't do everything, but we do the socially essential thing. I'd like the cabinet's opinion on this. By the way, can it also be considered whether further rules are necessary? That's not easy, as we saw in the DBA Act. The labour market is very dynamic and it has advantages to be a self-employed person. For example, I read that 70,000zzp'ers have joined the care department since 2014. In the Volkskrant of 25 October last year, it was said that in the first nine months of this year 10,000 people chose to take care alone. The reason was that people were tired of the workload and bureaucracy. So there's a lot going on, more than just employers wanting flexibility. That is true, but the need for freedom on the part of thezzp'ers is at least as big a factor. Let us therefore be careful about restricting freedom. And let us limit it, if we do, to the socially desirable. I come to another subject, pensions. If there is one issue that can contribute to reducing or widening the gap between what is most economically desirable and what is socially sensible, then pensions are. Millions of people depend on it, now or in the future. All these people have been confronted for years with the fact that their pension does not grow along with the price increases and even the threat of a real reduction in their pension. This does not happen because pension funds do not have enough cash; the opposite is the case. The pension funds are rich and would like to index themselves, but we should not, because we put ourselves on the rack because of our so-called calculation rate system. The pension funds are obliged to measure their future liabilities at the prevailing market interest rates. It's been very low for years, so the so-called coverage rate is low, so it can't be indexed and so pensions sometimes really have to go down. If there's anything you can't explain, it's this. An interest rate is used at European level which would allow indexation. But we continue to persist in this harsh approach. Mr. Chairman. It is really to be hoped that it will reach an agreement on pensions and the AOW in the short term. The problem could then be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u68	I am very pleased with this new sound from the CDA to really change the way in which we deal with calculation rates in the Netherlands. Mr Van Strien mentioned it this morning, and Mr Nagel's party has been talking about it for a very long time. My own party, too, has put forward here almost every financial consideration that we need to go to a real accounting rate. My question to Mr Van Kesteren is whether, according to the CDA's Eerste Kamer Group, this is really a requirement for the pension agreement that is being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u69	First of all, let me refresh your memory. I used this text two years ago, so it is not a completely new approach. As such, I await the meeting. You know as well as I do what this is all about: this, but also about the AOW age. If that agreement is reached, I also know that there will be elements that deal with the interest rate. There are many ways to make indexes possible. This can also be done if, for example, a pension fund has to keep fewer buffers. This could lead to more indexing. I think that a pension system that has not been able to index pensions for 10 or 15 years is not a good system. As a result, the unrest among pensioners is growing in this country. And that is justified unrest that must end. This can be done by changing the interest rate, but it can also be done by reducing the buffers of pension funds, as I said. They'll be able to index sooner. I'm talking about indexing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u70	That's clear. You yourself mentioned the accounting rate. That is why I would like to ask you explicitly whether you would be prepared, with us, with various groups in this house, to encourage our Minister of Finance to take away the 'neet' to work with the calculation rate that has been there so far from Finance and from De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u71	I do not want to focus entirely on the calculation rate. Let me tell you that there are other methods of indexing. I mentioned the example of the calculation rate, because I find it so strange that we are imposing measures on ourselves that lead to these results. I think indexation is part of a good pension system. The way it is achieved, I find subordinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, you have something else for your interruption or is it about the same point? That's just been handled, so please don't ask the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u73	I'll try. I would just like to say that we in the SP Group welcome what Mr Van Kesteren is saying. He found that earlier, and I'm glad he still does. I am asking the question which is still before me, in another way, because I have not yet received a very clear answer. What can we do about that from this house? What is Mr Van Kesteren prepared to do with his rightful analysis of the fact that this real interest rate must finally be introduced, since there is now a real problem with the indexation of pensions, which has a lot to do with the calculation rate? In my view, a request to the government to take this issue seriously now could count on broad support in this Chamber. Could Mr Van Kesteren agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u74	I think that the moment at which we stand today is decisive for the possibilities we have. The consultation on pensions will continue tonight, if I have read it correctly. I expect a result, either positive or negative, but that outcome will come. I do not think that we in this Chamber now have much resources to influence that consultation. Nor do I wish to confine myself to the debate on the interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u75	We could, of course, go wider and say that there has been a problem with indexation for years, to which we add the question of how to solve it. One of the elements is then the calculation rate. We have to wait and see, but as a Chamber we could make a ruling on what we would like. This is what I would like to present to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u76	We could do that, but yes, desirability is also a question of possibilities that really exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u77	Mr Van Kesteren says that he made a plea for this indexation two years ago. My question is twofold. One, isn't two years enough? Secondly, if the CDA really thinks that something should be done about it, on the left or on the right, via buffers or interest rates, can I ask that group to come up with a concrete proposal that shows that they want indexation, so that we can adopt it with a majority in the Chamber? Then you have a chance it won't last another two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u78	I don't see any reason for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u79	You don't think two years is enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u80	Well, it's about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr. Van Kesteren has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u82	It is a question of discussing a pension system today and tomorrow. The responsibility for this lies primarily with employers and employees. I would like to state what our group's view is on the desirability of indexation. I would just like to say that I think it would be unwise to intervene in that now, at the moment. I think so, because the consultation is now at such a crucial time. That's why I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr Van Kesteren has been of the opinion for many years that there should be indexing. The chances of that being decided today or tomorrow are actually very small. What is the reason for him now to record his passionate desire for indexing again in a clear statement of the Chamber? Next week's the vote. Then he can always rescind the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u84	I care about the division of responsibility. It will be discussed tonight and tomorrow. I do not think it is a contribution if we intervene in that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u85	Mr. Van Strien has another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u86	Yeah, but it's about the same subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u87	Same subject. Try to narrow your question a little bit in view of the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u88	Yes. It's a very short question, Mr President. Mr Van Kesteren says that there are other possibilities than those of calculating interest to enable indexing. Now all the other cases mentioned by him are a direct result of the accounting rate. When he says: I am going to reduce pension obligations, he gives the impression that pension funds are going to take more risks, so to speak. That is not the issue at all. Lowering the interest rate does not mean that pension funds are taking more risks. The interest rate simply causes the liabilities to become excessive, just the accounting rate and nothing else. Does Mr Van Kesteren agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u89	Technically, I agree with you, but politically, you must also note that there are many other wishes about a pension system that make that calculation rate a point of great discussion. So you need to look for other methods to save the indexing if the calculation rate sec cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u90	Proceed, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u91	Another subject. Our economy, and hence public finances, is highly dependent on developments on the international stage. These developments give cause for concern. There is increasing tension and a policy of confrontation that we have not known in decades. This increases the risk of economic shocks, and that is not good news for us, because our economy is strongly driven by exports. Public finances may have a knock-on effect, but limiting public debt as much as possible is wise in this respect as a precautionary measure. What is also wise, Mr President, is to keep peace around the euro. Here again we need a balance between economic desirability and social feasibility. There is little understanding among large parts of the population to help if the southern Member States do not have their economies and public finances in order and do not fulfil their European obligations. That is what we saw in the Greek crisis a few years ago, and that is what we are seeing in the developments in Italy. The preservation of the euro and of a Europe as strong as possible is in the interest of the Netherlands. A fragmented Europe is being weakened economically and will become a toy of world economic powers. We need a strong Europe, which can also make a fist of foreign policy and defence. That requires a strong economy, because without money, you won't start anything. So putting the euro at risk is completely counterproductive. It is up to all Member States to change their minds, and so should the Italians. Their government defies the European Commission when it comes to rules on the annual deficit and public debt. The Netherlands is one of the countries that is noisy in meeting the Italian Government and calling it to order. We are also the captain of the so-called Hanseatic group; fine. The Minister deserves praise for his vigorous approach to seeking allies. A group of Member States that strives for sound financial policies in Europe. The most recent proposal of this group is to link the provision of emergency aid by Europe to Member States in financial difficulties with the requirement that these countries have their sovereign debt under control. If not, private holders of state loans will have to take their losses in order to reduce public debt. Anyone who puts this intention along the criterion of economically correct and socially feasible can come to the conclusion that there is some tension between these, to say the least. Of course, it is good to keep the Italian Government in mind, but anyone who realizes that Italian public debt is largely owned by Italian citizens is playing a major role. By choosing such a hard line, one can hope that the Italian Government will commit itself, but it can also work counter-productively. There's a lot at stake. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Resuming, Chairman. The budget for 2019 is a beautiful budget. It may also be a budget at the end of an era. After all, international developments will undoubtedly require a re-examination of our defence obligations. The energy transition will have major financial consequences. In this context, it is necessary to consider the implications for the state budget. What needs to change to finance these developments, while preserving the prosperity we have? In its opinion, the Council of State introduces the concept of "wide prosperity." This concept must ensure that, despite all the changes, the Netherlands remains an excellent place for future generations to live, work and undertake. The Council advises the Cabinet to use the Millions Note to consider annually how the government can bring the objective of broad prosperity ever closer. Such consideration should promote coherence, consistency and predictability of public policies and their consistent implementation. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group considers this to be an interesting suggestion and is looking forward to the government's response to it. In general, we await with interest the reactions of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I'm looking at the clock. I'm suspending the meeting until 1:30 for lunch.
