ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u1	The next item is the debate on the missing profiles of convicted criminals in the DNA database. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. I would also like to welcome Members. The people here in the public gallery and the people who follow the debate in a different way: of course, very welcome. I am happy to give the floor first to Mr Van der Staaij. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to speak in this debate on behalf of Mrs Kuik from the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u4	Mr. Chairman. Three and a half years ago, Bart van U. was arrested on suspicion of the murder of former Minister Borst in 2014 and a year later on his sister Loïs. These are atrocious crimes which, to this day, have left their traces in the lives of relatives and shocked society as a whole. At the time, the Hoekstra Committee carried out an investigation and drew painful conclusions. Bart van U. hadn't had a DNA sample taken from a few cotton swab cheek glue after a previous gun possession conviction, although he should have. If that had happened, soon after Mrs. Borst's murder, the trail could have led to Bart of You. Then this case could have been solved much sooner. In addition, a new victim could have been prevented. I would like to remind you of this history because it shows that the rapid removal of DNA can be vital. We therefore find it extremely regrettable that a few years later around 21,000 DNA profiles of convicted criminals are still missing. By the way, it was kind of hard to get those numbers up. We would like to hear about this from the Minister himself in future and not from the media. It would be nice if those figures were presented clearly. Now I noticed that the numbers seem to be magical here and there. I think it is important to mention in this debate that in recent years, among other things, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office have worked hard to improve. Appreciate that. At the same time, the conclusion, also from the Justice and Security Inspectorate, is clear and worrying: a growing number of convicted persons who have to give up DNA have disappeared from the radar. We're missing more and more DNA profiles of convicted criminals in the databases. That is extremely bad news for safety. This calls for firm action. It is a good thing that the process of DNA collection is improved. The Minister takes over the inspection's recommendations except those to clearly invest the direction with the Public Prosecutor. The question is, why isn't this happening? If we are to prevent it from going the wrong way, more must be done. Then the law must be changed. I can't explain to victims that criminals can go wrong again because the government isn't in order. The Minister wants to take a cautious step and prepare legislation for at least the suspect without permanent residence and residence. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as the Labour Party, wonder whether this choice is not susceptible to abuse by, for example, giving up a fake address and thereby avoiding premature decline. I therefore call today for further legislation to be prepared, aimed at the entire target group of insured persons who have been arrested for a DNA-grade crime. This can prevent a great deal of suffering and increase the security of our country. Mr President, because my speech has a very clear focus and in view of the late hour, I would like to ask the Chamber to table a motion which clearly states what we are asking the Minister to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u5	Thank you. Is there any objection to tabling a motion in the first term? That is not the case. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u6	The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is vital for the rapid resolution of serious crimes and the prevention of new victims of, for example, murders and rapes that DNA profiles of convicted criminals be included in the DNA database as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas despite recovery actions and catching up in recent years around 21,000 profiles of convicted persons are missing;]] [[Whereas there is doubt as to whether a legislative proposal will have sufficient effect specifically aimed at persons without permanent residence or residence;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to preparing such a specific legislative proposal, to prepare everything for a broader legislative proposal aimed at the entire target group of insured persons, considering how to respond to the concerns raised in the field of privacy, should such a broader legislative proposal be adopted after the outcome of the evaluation;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to speed up substantially the evaluation of the DNA-V Act so that a legislative proposal can be brought into procedure as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Dam, Mr Van Oosten, Mr Helder and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-450]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u8	I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen. Mr Groothuizen speaks on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, Nieuwsuur reported that out of 20,000 convicts without a permanent address, no DNA had been collected wrongly. That's an increase of 8,000 in two and a half years. How is that possible? Former VVD Minister Van der Steur promised to get better. There would be a solid package of measures. Now, however, we have to note that it has only got worse with the numbers. Research carried out by the JenV Inspection shows that, despite the promise, there are still serious problems. Different information systems make mistakes and delays. The personal and address registration is not in order and the Royal Marechaussee, the Judicial Institutions and the prisons themselves have no control over the purchasing process. The KMar, chairman, doesn't even control anyone leaving Schiphol. That's 75,000 people a day. I therefore have a number of questions for the Minister. What's the reason why there's no guidance on the DNA process in the military and in the prisons? Why is there no technical experience, especially with the KMar, in the handling of DNA sampling and how many errors are caused by this? Can the Minister explain why the DNA chain does not yet have a uniform information supply? Can the Minister also explain how he intends to remove the bottlenecks in the personal and address registration he identifies? Mr. Chairman. I'm not asking those critical questions here for nothing. There is a discussion about another system: not taking DNA after a conviction, but at the very beginning, in people who are in insurance. Mr Van der Staaij has just put that discussion on the table in this Chamber, I think. D66 is critical of that system. The preservation of DNA is a major agent. It is very personal information and it can be done more and more technically. The group of people in insurance is large: 52,000 in 2017. Of these, 63% have never been convicted, or not for a fact that ultimately justifies the reduction of DNA. Shooting with a cannon on a mosquito. It's also stigmatizing. People who have not yet been convicted will be treated in the same way as those who have been convicted. The plan isn't closing either. 30% of the convicts were never in insurance. So you can't bring it in with another system. I therefore think that we should first look at the possibilities of improving the current system and then look at other possibilities. In Nieuwsuur, reporter Eelco Bosch van Rosenthal said: The Chamber is so shocked that the police probably get their way. I would argue that we should not be afraid of this, but rather of a proper balance between our fundamental rights and what is at stake. The Minister's letter gives me some hope in that respect. He's actually saying that we should only change the law if we have to. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the fundamental legal concerns, it also seems to me that there is a lot of red tape in the case of insurance. The DNA has to be taken and actually someone has to take a test on it. The DNA should then be stored. If there is no conviction, it must be destroyed. I told you, in 2017, there were 52,000 insurance companies, 33 000 of whom should have been destroyed again. My question to the Minister is: who is going to keep up with all this? It's quite an administrative burden. Can the Minister guarantee that that is going well? After all, we know that the destruction of DNA and the notification of people often goes wrong. We have just received a letter from the Minister on this matter. Could the Minister also indicate the cost of such a system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u10	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Helder. Mrs Helder speaks on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 1 July 2015, more than three years ago, there was a debate with former Minister Van der Steur on the murder of former Minister Mrs Borst. The Minister then promised the Chamber that "everything must be done to prevent repetition." One of the recommendations of the then established Hoekstra committee was: remove all insured suspects from cell material, so that after conviction a DNA profile can be created, which can then be included in the DNA database. At that time, the situation was that only after conviction a call for DNA was sent. If they didn't respond, the police had to track down the convict. The Minister did not accept this recommendation. The situation has therefore remained unchanged, with all the consequences. The broadcast of Nieuwsuur has revealed that more than 21,000 DNA profiles of convicted criminals are missing from the national DNA database. This is more than a doubling compared to 2016, despite all the efforts of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Something must therefore be done, because convicted persons do not report or do not report sufficient for compulsory DNA collection. In the letter of 2 July, the Minister writes that the Law DNA investigation in convicted persons is first evaluated on the effectiveness of the improvement reports before deciding whether a change of law can be implemented. The evaluation is expected in April next year. So making every effort has changed into waiting, because the measure is probably not EVRM-proof, as the minister said in the same broadcast of Nieuwsuur. In the meantime, the Minister will look into what is needed for a possible change of law for suspects without a permanent residence or residence, so not for all suspects who are eligible for this under the Wet DNA investigation among convicted persons. I can be very brief about that: that is unacceptable to my group, for several reasons. I will mention the most important ones here. Firstly, the distinction between suspects with no known place of residence or place of residence and suspects with a known address is virtually unworkable. In the case of insurance, the so-called ID cell is checked in the GBA register, but that register is not up-to-date and a snapshot. You can handle that creatively. For example, I can register at your home address. Secondly, crimes can be solved much earlier if there is a DNA profile at the earliest possible stage. A choice must therefore be made between, on the one hand, the percentage of suspects whose DNA profile should eventually be destroyed, with the costs involved, and, on the other hand, the huge burden and the cost of preventing the police from detecting convicted persons who may not even be in the country anymore. It takes about 32 hours per convict alone to find the place of residence or residence. And then the person isn't even inside. The chances of success are very low. My group chooses the latter to remedy this and is therefore in favour of an amendment of the law which makes it possible to take cell material away from all suspects who have been insured and are therefore also available to the police. Not only the citizens of the Netherlands deserve this, but also the police officers who have already been asked about it. The detection capacity must be used to solve crimes and not to hunt down criminals that the police have already caught. That is why I co-signed Mr Van der Staaij's motion, despite the fact that it still says 'if a broader legislative proposal is chosen'. My group believes that a broader legislative proposal should be adopted. However, it seems stronger to strengthen the motion by as many signatories as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u12	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, who speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u13	Mr. Chairman. After the murder of Els Borst and the violent conclusions of the Hoekstra Committee, we were all very indignant here. How was it possible, so many mistakes? With the recommendations, the Minister would work hard. One was about the collection of DNA material, because there was a great deal of delay in that area. But what does it turn out to be? The gap has only increased. The problem has doubled. The DNA profiles of as many as 21,000 convicts are not in a DNA database, whereas the law prescribes that. That's serious indeed. DNA is an important tool to solve crimes. It is not everything-defining and savoury, but it is an important tool. Convicted criminals can be associated with other crimes. So it has great consequences for the truth finding and the detection of criminals. According to Professor Van Koppen, hundreds of crimes remain unsolved due to the massive lack of DNA profiles. The Minister promised to get better, but the problem only got bigger and the Chamber was not informed. What was the Minister supposed to do? The Minister should, of course, have informed the Chamber that he could not deliver on his promise, preferably with an analysis which makes it clear what that was. In any case, he should have informed society about this delay, because not Bas Haan van Nieuwsuur, but the Minister has the legal task of informing the Chamber. I want a minister who keeps promises and who actively reports these kinds of problems. Then why is that so important to me? Because it is only now that we are able to have a good discussion or, in fact, that we are not yet able to carry out a proper debate on how best to organise the collection of DNA material. I thought I could trust the Minister to solve the problems, as promised. I know that in recent years there has been an incredible amount of work on eliminating this backlog, particularly by the people involved in police forensics. This department has been experiencing problems for years with the workload, absenteeism, failure of agents and outflow of knowledge. Those problems with the police are well known. I told you, cops don't act for nothing. You're right. They have our support. But the question today is whether we can solve these problems with the current law. The Safety and Justice Inspectorate is quite clear on this: no, the current law will not do that, not even with investing in capacity. I therefore think it is right that the Minister should come forward with the proposal to discuss the law. The SP would like to have as close a system as possible, with people's DNA in the database as required by law, but not at any price. I would be happy to discuss whether it is legally feasible to take DNA from the insurance of people with an unknown address, so whether suspects of a fact that stands for four years or more in case of arrest in addition to photos and fingerprints are also taken from cheek glue. But I also think we should realize today that taking DNA from non-convicts isn't nothing, whether we know where they're staying or not. My question to the Minister is whether, in the careful process that he is going to use together with the police and the judiciary, it is also being investigated whether there is a system to be created that will be able to pass the legal test in particular, possibly already taking DNA from suspects, but which will only be processed as a profile after the conviction, and which will be immediately destroyed if no conviction follows. And then we need to be able to rely on that to happen. I do not read enough about this in the Minister's letter. Nor do I read about the fact that we would still miss a significant group with this proposal. Mr Groothuizen also asked. Not everyone's in insurance. What does this aspect mean for the possible legal sustainability? I would like a commitment from the Minister to look at all these issues in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u14	Thank you. Mr Krol has signed off on this debate. That means that I am giving the floor to Mr Van Oosten. He is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that previous speakers have already indicated to a sufficient extent the importance of being prepared to take DNA already in insurance. My group has also stressed this during the time when we discussed the Hoekstra Committee in this Chamber. In doing so, you prevent, as has now been shown, that 21,000 DNA profiles are missing from the DNA database. The VVD just thinks that's a bad thing. We would like to see that resolved. I can't be clearer. Furthermore, I welcome the letter sent recently by the Minister to the Chamber. I read between the lines that the Minister certainly wants to address the situation in which a person who has been insured does not have a permanent residence or residence. At least that's how I understand it. It is precisely then that there is a risk that someone, after being finally convicted, whose DNA material should have been included in the DNA database, may have flown, may have gone abroad. Then we have to hope one day that we will be able to include the DNA material in the DNA bank in order to be able to use it in the future, also in order to prevent victims. Mr. Chairman. In this respect, I voted in favour of the motion tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. I have little to add to that. However, I would like to emphasise one other point. I also ask for leave to table a motion in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u16	I'll see if there's any objection to filing a first-term motion. That is not the case. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u17	That's what I do for the sake of time. The motion sees on a functioning Basic Registration Persons. Previously, we used to call it the GBA. That's the term I'm still most familiar with. During the public technical briefing we received this afternoon, it appeared that there were gaps in that system, which I believe Mrs Helder provided some examples of. As a result of these gaps, you may not know later whether a person actually lives at the given address, while the order has to be given to give DNA. Then you'll have another hole in the DNA database. I'll file the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in criminal matters, such as the service of orders, a well-functioning BRP (Basic Registration Persons) is conditional;]] [[Whereas this is also crucial in keeping the DNA database complete, especially as long as DNA is not taken by default during insurance;]] [[having noted that during the technical briefing on DNA investigations in criminal matters it appeared that there were gaps in the BRP register so that it could not be fully relied on;]] [[calls on the Government to identify these gaps, to take measures where possible to improve them and to inform the Chamber thereof, if possible at the time of the evaluation of the DNA-V Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Dam, Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-451]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u19	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dam. Mr Van Dam speaks on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u20	Mr. Chairman. It's late. We've heard a lot. The question is, what can I add? At first, the picture appeared that it was a game in this area with the police and the judiciary. I think that image has been adjusted by the Minister's letter and by the technical briefing. Of course, there are some things in the Marechaussee that need to be improved, and there are some other organisations that may need to be joined. But the essence is that this problem is a structural problem, given the way we dealt with it. Every year, about 2,000 to 3,000 cases will be added from people whose profile has not decreased. That's worrying. The CDA Group wholeheartedly supports the Minister's proposal to prepare for DNA collection of insured suspects who have no permanent residence or residence. But we have been in favour of taking DNA from people who were known to have a fixed address at the insurance scheme from the outset. To this end, we tabled a motion together with the SGP in 2015, which did not reach a majority of the Chamber. But also for this group, the assessment of the law will have to provide insight into it or decrease immediately is a better option. I understand that we have to wait and see, but I would like to say in advance that our preference is and remains that of all suspects DNA is taken directly from the insurance company. In doing so, we realise that a high percentage of insured persons will not ultimately be convicted, but that does not outweigh other arguments. I will mention some of them. The legal objection to DNA collection is not contained in the purchase operation itself.You will survive such a cotton swab, but above all in the indefinite period of storage of the DNA sample. This can be resolved by automatically introducing a final deadline, which can only be interrupted by an active action of the Public Prosecutor. Another argument is that we in this Chamber are very regularly asking for extra police deployment in areas such as terror, revenge porn, sex cases, and you cannot call it all. Then we must also be prepared to save on occasion on police deployment wherever possible. But my most important consideration I point out as the "chicane." This DNA legislation is intended to identify, hold and stop suspects of capital crimes. Suspects carrying the secret of such a crime live to stay out of the hands of police and justice, and will deliberately give an address in the current plans at the insurance establishment in order to be untraceable later. Of course, we want our legislation to be decent and within our own and European standards. It is right that we have been subjected to a proportionality test. But in carrying out that test, in weighing up the small violation of privacy by many versus the search for justice and protection of all of us, there can be no misunderstanding as to what the CDA Group thinks about it in the present, past and future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u21	Thank you. I see another question from Mr Grothuizen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u22	Mr Van Dam began his speech, which I was able to follow to a large extent, with the observation that there are still a few small points that need to be improved. I wonder whether Mr Van Dam is doing justice to the inspection report. For I read in the report that the inspection considers that there are a number of risky bottlenecks, which do not yet have the desired effect. That sounds a little louder than "there are only a few small dots."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u23	We find the reason for this debate in a broadcast of Newsuur and in other press releases in which it was said that it was all wrong and that it was all worrying. I think that there are a number of things that are or are not going to happen to the implementing authorities with each legislative introduction and application. It is very good that this is being evaluated and that the Justice and Security Inspectorate is looking at that. The main point I want to make is that the essence of the increase, the emergence of the 21,000, will, to a small extent, have to do with the things that Mr Groothuizen refers to. But it has a lot more to do with us just not getting it right. People without permanent residence or residence are, once they have been convicted, often in absentia, no longer to be found by the Dutch government. I think I wanted to emphasise that in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u24	Thank you. In conclusion, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u25	Another point. In my view, Mr Van Dam touched on an interesting point by saying that you could consider a system whereby the material must be automatically destroyed after a certain period of time and that only an active action by the Public Prosecutor would stop it. That in itself is an interesting thought, which solves possible problems. Now Mr Van Dam undoubtedly knows that the retention period is one of the points. The longer, the more complicated it becomes, also to place it within the ECHR. What is Mr Van Dam's timetable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u26	In this respect, we still have a comprehensive evaluation report ahead of us. I think it is very important to have an assessment of the time-limit required to normally reach a conviction. It's always about the proportionality test. Things have to be in balance. I would not venture to give a ruling on a time limit at this time. Let us base this on the reports that come to us. I would like to emphasise this in particular. I have heard in D66 that you attach great importance to the fact that 63% of cases do not lead to a conviction or to a bearing something to take DNA. We need to keep an eye on that. We have to listen to that. We need to find a solution to that. I try to reach it by not opening the door completely, but keeping the back door closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u27	Mr Van Dam's efforts are, of course, appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u28	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. That brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister indicated that he could immediately start answering the questions put to him. We would also like to receive an opinion on the two motions that have already been tabled. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u29	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This is an important and worrying issue. With regard to the collection of DNA material, your Chamber has already debated the Hoekstra report in detail, as Mrs Helder rightly pointed out, three years ago. Since then, improvements have certainly been made. We still have to realise that the number of profiles in the DNA database since 2004 has been over 2,868,000. That's cumulative. In the first years, of course, this starts with very small numbers. We must also realise that at least a high percentage succeeds in extracting DNA from convicted persons with a known address. The inspection also sees the improvements, but also offers what can be even better. That's gonna get picked up. I emphasized this in my letter to you on 2 July, Mr President. In any case, it is clear that DNA convicts in particular without permanent residence and residence are difficult to trace. I share the urgency of taking steps in this respect. That is why I have looked into how we could bring forward any necessary steps in this area. My predecessor has spoken to your Chamber about the need for a careful process of legislation. In fact, the Advisory Section of the Council of State found that even under a legal regime which makes it possible for all insured persons without a known BRP address or with a foreign address to acquire cell material, it is necessary to determine whether the purchase of cell material from all insured persons without a known address in the Netherlands, including in view of the implementation problems which a measure entails, has such added value that it can be considered to satisfy................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to make it very clear to those who look and have less to do with it that the European Convention on Human Rights simply requires us to be able to demonstrate in the Netherlands that there was an urgent need in this way to extend the reduction of cell material to all insured persons without a known address. Thus Erasmus University in a research commissioned at the time. As a result of this research, my predecessor, to be absolutely sure, asked the Council of State for information. We must take this seriously as a reference framework. Therefore, evaluation of the Wet DNA study in convicted persons is necessary. That investigation will not be completed until April next year. It is carried out by an external research firm. The researchers have been contacted about the possibilities to speed it up, but the margins are small. However, they are going to try to produce the report earlier. This is to a large extent due to the fact that the evaluation study is an extensive dossier study, in order to be able to examine with all due care whether in current legislation everything that is possible has actually been tried and b. whether it is working or not, so whether or not there could be a need to bring the DNA collection forward in a legal regulation. Here's what I want to say. Mr Van Oosten also said it. I have already indicated it in my letter, but perhaps somewhat implicit. I don't want to make any misunderstandings about it. In order not to waste any time, I'm sure I'll make some preparations right now. I will do so so that we have prepared a number of things in advance when your Chamber and the Cabinet conclude after the evaluation that the legislative amendment needs to be made. So I am also in the process of designing very clear work processes for individuals without permanent residence or residence with regard to DNA collection in insurance. I have an impact analysis carried out of the impact of the change in the law on the number of DNA samples and the impact on the criminal justice chain, including the impact on ICT facilities. A third point that we are looking at is precisely how this should take legal form, i.e. how should the new legislation look human-law-proof? I also need to look closely at the following safeguards for the preservation of DNA. There must be adequate means of transport between police forces and the NFI. There must be sufficient storage at the Dutch Forensic Institute, the NFI, to keep the cell material until the conviction. There must be secure storage of the cell material, as well as guarantees that the cell material cannot be used in an investigation, unless the conditions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are met. There should also be ICT connections between the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NFI, so that the cell material is destroyed as soon as a suspect is not convicted. That will have to be an important premise for a custodial sentence, measure or community service. If we conclude that the legislative amendment needs to be made, I can make a decision shortly after the evaluation has been completed by starting the preparations now. Then we can get along very quickly. I mentioned this list because I wanted to show that a number of things really need to be prepared and set in motion. But I also want to make it clear in the Acts that we will really end this very careful process with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u30	There is a question from Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u31	Can the Minister explain to me when the preparations he is making are sufficiently human-law-proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u32	I'm glad you asked that question. I have said that in the coming months, with my ministry, with the D.A., with the police, I will put everything in preparation with the NFI so that, when we conclude with each other after that evaluation, that legislative change must be made, that everything is ready and that we can get on with it right away. The human-law test is, of course, the result of the findings in the evaluation. It is about what we establish in that evaluation with each other. I say 'together', because this is a very important subject which the Chamber has paid a lot of attention to and which I take very seriously. If we find together that all the possibilities under the current law have been exhausted, but in the end we see that a large number of DNA profiles are still not obtained, if we find together that we are not moving forward with this law, then I think we would be able to meet the requirement of the ECHR. A few other points apply. For example, we need to indicate that we only include the profiles in the DNA database when an actual conviction follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u33	In conclusion, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u34	I understand that the Minister is in a search for the point where you can adequately 'emergency issues' that you come to such a legislative amendment that must therefore be sufficiently related to the Treaty. We will wait and see where the evaluation leads, but if you ask all the lawyers if it is sufficiently waterproof in human law, there will be enough to say: that is not the case, despite the fact that 21,000 profiles are missing. I'm looking, I want us to finally show a little guts and say: we don't accept that there are 21,000 profiles missing in that DNA database, we make a law, and eventually we let the judge test whether it relates to all the treaties we've concluded. We don't want to say in advance: we're not gonna do it. If I may assume that the Minister does not have that attitude, I am already satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u35	I have reflected the attitude that I have expressed in my letter and which I have made more explicit here. I really think it is important to start taking steps in the foreseeable future, but I do think that we should complete the evaluation we made in this Chamber at the time. Otherwise, we could be blamed: you have not completed that process properly and the basis for the legislation is somewhat shaky. I would like to stress that we must make this weighting with each other in a careful way, but also in a way in which we dare to formulate the need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u36	On this point, I would ask the Minister whether he agrees that the simple reference to the Erasmus University study and the advice of the Council of State is not enough to say: we should not begin to enlarge. We are now a few years further and we have seen several reports showing that there are really structural problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u37	I would really like to endorse the legal standard of both the Council of State and Erasmus University. However, as Mr Van der Staaij rightly says, we have moved on. We now have the inspection report and, by the way, the second monitoring of Hoekstra will come in some time. The inspection report contains a clear indication that we may at least have concerns about the outcome of the evaluation. However, I think it is very important to ensure that this evaluation is carried out carefully, because that is important in order to demonstrate this need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u38	In conclusion, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u39	Mr President, concluding. In order to be able to draw definitive conclusions, it is indeed a good thing that we have the investigations. In his letter, the Minister explained that the investigation is aimed at people without permanent residence and residence, but is he also prepared to broaden it and to make explicit use of the legislative process for the whole group of insured persons? That is also what is decided in the motion and what is living widely in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u40	Not because I really want to leave Mr Van der Staaij in suspense about the way I look at the motion, but for the response to a number of questions that Mr Groothuizen asked in particular, I would prefer to deal with all the questions first and then deal with both motions, including those of Mr Van Oosten. I think it's more carefully framed then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u41	Fine. Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u42	I think the Minister himself is choosing a sensible course. There are actually two teeth on the fork that matter. One is whether you have done everything you can to get the current system in order and the other not to try to hit an undifferentiated whole group with a measure. The Minister says: I want to do the evaluation first and I want to look at a partial part. I think that's a sensible way to go. Now Erasmus University Rotterdam has also dealt with another path. They say that you could also look again at alternatives, for example to link it more to pre-trial detention. Is the Minister willing to take that with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u43	I shall return to that in a moment when Mr Van der Staaij's motion is discussed in greater detail. I think that, at least in the run-up to the evaluation, we need to weigh up whether we want to make the legislative amendment in such a way that, on the one hand, it significantly reduces the problem that is currently facing us. Of course, we are always committed to solving these problems in full, but at least we are committed to reducing them very substantially. In this way, to put it bluntly, it meets the need. I certainly think that it should be taken into account whether the moment when you do the decline could be starting point as that necessity... and so on, and so on. If one reads the opinion of the inspection and also looks at what the Hoekstra Committee writes, one should assume that you are initially looking at the moment of insurance. But if the weighting should be a little later than that, then I think that your Chamber and I should take that into account in the final debate on what this legislative amendment should look like. I must, of course, make a well-balanced argument about this. It was a bit cumbersome, but I am sure that we will have to take that point with us in the end. Is the insurance policy really the best time or is that the detention order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u44	In conclusion, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u45	In order to avoid misunderstandings, because it was a fairly long answer, the following. I understand the Minister that he says: "I want to look at that and then I look at it in the balance of: the sooner you take it away, the greater the chance that you don't miss anyone, of course. But there may be legal objections to that, which you can overcome if you move the lake to the back. I'm willing to think about moving that moment right now." If I can understand the Minister that way, I'm satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u46	The greater the need, the clearer it is that the measure should be put forward more. That is about the law of nature that would occur here, I think. If that need were to turn out to be less severe, there is more reason to call that moment a little less. But at least I think that Chamber and Cabinet should be open to how this works out best in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u47	A brief comment. In the end, what the Minister is providing, what emerges from that investigation, will have to help us to make choices in the different directions on which you can take the proportionality test. However, I would like to draw particular attention to the situation where, in cases where people are arrested for very small crimes, huge crimes can be solved. The Utrecht serial rapist gave up DNA on the theft of a decoy bike, I believe. I do not want to trivialise the theft of a bicycle at this time, but it is a small fact compared to the enormous social impact that the resolution of the crime has had. However, I would ask the Minister to present these elements to the Chamber in the evaluation that comes out so that we can take them with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u48	Through you to Mr Van Dam, President: this example appeals to me very much, that is, without looking exactly at which one of us still has his bike against the tree. Why does it appeal to me? On the subject of several occasions, we have also discussed this issue in your Chamber this spring, namely the situation of the very small crime in relation to the major crime. Now that is in a very different context. I think that this is clearly a circumstance which we should not lose sight of. Let me say it again in one very clear sentence: if we see the need very clearly on the basis of the review of a legislative amendment, we must also recognise that these aspects are taken into account in the advance of DNA sampling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u49	We are not taking final positions here today. We can't, because the legal analysis is coming. The need therefore remains to be demonstrated. But I do understand that the possibilities are being explored; let me have said so. I also welcome the fact that the Minister has listed the conditions, including the destruction of those who are not convicted. Can the Minister also make an explicit commitment to include the work processes, the implementation costs, also of destroying them? How labor-intensive is that whole route? And can he promise that the guarantee will be taken away that the material that needs to be destroyed will actually be destroyed? After all, we know from the recent past that this has gone wrong. So I also want the Minister to find out that we can really rely on the fact that the material that needs to be destroyed because people who have taken DNA are not ultimately convicted will indeed be destroyed. How hard can those guarantees be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u50	Mr Van Nispen has two very good points. I have said, perhaps in general, that we must also design work processes that really ensure that the destruction actually takes place, but which I would also like to say quite honestly, are cost-efficient and as little as possible burden on the services in question and what is more. Mr President, I would like to pass on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u51	No, before you proceed to the next answer, there is an interruption by Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u52	To conclude on this point: despite the fact that colleagues Van der Staaij and Van Dam have already put it very sharply, I would also like to make a contribution. The Minister says: the law will have to be evaluated, I quote: 'on the effectiveness of the improvement reports in the field of DNA collection'. But the fact is that the law doesn't allow DNA collection at an earlier stage, so it doesn't allow it to be taken into custody, nor does it allow it to be taken into insurance. So if it is only to evaluate the effectiveness of the improvement reports, I fear that the points that Mr Van Dam and Mr Van der Staaij have just rightly made fall outside. It is true that the Minister has somewhat nuanced this in his reply, but I would like to confirm that it is more than just the effectiveness of the improvement reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u53	Yeah, but we're dealing with two rounds. We must first establish with each other, on the basis of this very thorough evaluation, whether that law has worked or whether we have completely scraped the pan out of this law. Did we take out everything that was inside? Then we need to see if that has put us in a much better position. The figures from the inspection seem to indicate that, however much improvements have been made on a number of points, there is still a flow of 21,000 debt securities that we do not get a grip on with the current law. That process is that necessity balance that we have to make with each other. If we are to balance this necessity, we must then look at the proportionality test to see whether this law is still in balance with all the interests involved. In addition, you will have to consider the issue of minor crimes versus major crimes. On that point, I have just endorsed what Mr Van Dam said, namely that you should not be afraid to include this in insurance for minor offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u54	Finalizing, Mrs. Helder? No, it was enough. Then the Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u55	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the questions. Mr Van de Staaij asked why the recommendation on the role of director has not yet been adopted. I would like to tell you that I have considered that recommendation. I would like to discuss it with the parties concerned in the near future. This could, of course, be fully integrated into the preparation of possible other legislation. But at least that conversation is still going on. That is what I will report to your Chamber in the context of reporting on further progress. Then I have a whole "map of Grand Houses," if I may say so; it is a new phenomenon. There is no DNA from Mr. Groothuizen on this folder, but there are a number of questions in it from him. The first question is what is the reason why there is no control over the DNA-V process in the military and the prisons. For the fourth quarter of 2017, the KMar considered the DNA-V process as an efficacy in general. There was no real quality control by the team leader. The continuous capacity deficit of the Border Guard Brigade also played a role in maintaining knowledge and skills. From the fourth quarter of 2017, far-reaching measures have been taken to improve the DNA-V process at Schiphol Airport. The final work instruction was implemented at the Border Guard Brigade at the end of February 2018. A team leader quality has also been assigned to each team of the Border Guard Brigade. By DJI a protocol was drawn up in 2015 for the execution of DNA collection in convicts in the penitentiary facilities. That protocol includes, inter alia, a comprehensive work instruction. Active monitoring of results has not been carried out so far. The process of DNA collection is a local implementation process, which carries out DJI locally on the basis of an order from the D.A.'s office. The quality of the execution is covered by the local branch management of the p.i. The general picture is that since the entry into force of the Protocol in 2015, this practice has never had problems of such a nature as to require escalation or adjustment at strategic level. Why is there no experience in the technical handling of DNA collection? The prison staff are trained to take DNA. In some of the DJI's establishments, there are so few DNA orders that, despite their training, employees do not consider themselves sufficiently competent. In this case, the local police are called upon to take charge of the facility. The following applies to the KMar. Due to the high workload there it was not possible to optimally guide or train the certified employees. Due to the general brief work instruction, there was lack of clarity in the role. I cannot determine the number of errors that Mr Groothuizen has asked for at the moment. I will inform your Chamber of this in my letter when presenting the report of the High Council's pg and Mr Hoekstra's monitoring report. Mr Groothuizen also asked what the KMar is doing with the recommendation of the Justice and Security Inspectorate that the KMar should ensure sufficient capacity and procedural efficiency to ensure maximum implementation of border controls at airports within the legal framework. The KMar has already started with a quality beat at Dutch main and largest airport, Schiphol. That quality stroke means that work descriptions of the DNA-V collection have been made. These work descriptions are ready and incorporated into the KMar's operational workspace activities. In addition, the DNA-V process is secured at management level. A quality monitor has also been created for the periodic control of the DNA-V process by management. The KMar will first gain experience with this revised procedure at the Dutch largest airport. At the beginning of 2019, the KMar will take a decision on the basis of the possibilities of carrying out the process in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u56	Maybe it's okay to wait for the block of answers. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Grotenhuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u57	Mr Groothuizen asked if I could explain why the DNA-V chain does not yet have a uniform information system. The improvement programme is working on improving the DNA-V chainwork processes. In this context, the exchange of information is now under way. In parallel, the Wivvg is also working to improve the provision of information. This already has an impact on components of the supply of chain information. But it must be stressed that this is not yet ready. That is also apparent from the inspection report. Mr Groothuizen also asked if I could explain how I can remove the bottlenecks in personal and address registration. The focus is on the mutual exchange of information, the streamlining of processes, the realisation of the digitisation of DNA commands between the Office, the CJIB and the police and the further improvement of the availability and user-friendliness of the personal and address database. That's the criminal chain database. This year, as well as next year, together with the chain partners, we will examine how the availability of residence information from convicted persons can be structurally improved and how that information can be made available to all chain partners via the SKDB, the criminal justice chain database. With my colleague from the Interior, I am going to investigate whether we will be able to obtain additional verification on the accuracy of the addresses of suspects and convicted persons. I would like to say a few words about my opinion on Mr Van Oosten's motion, but I will come back to that later. I am also prepared to reply to that question, Mr President, in order to look at alternatives for that moment. The starting point is really the insurance system, but we must also dare to consider whether another moment might be more appropriate in the weighting of that need in the context of what exactly is necessary. Finally, Mr Groothuizen asked if I could indicate what the cost of destroying DNA is. I can't do that yet. To do this, we must first carry out an impact analysis. That's all part of the whole list I mentioned in the context of the preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u58	And that was the Big Houses folder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u59	That's the block of Grand Houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u60	I would like to give the floor to Mr Grothuizen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Big Houses folder doesn't have to be destroyed, it's okay. Another question about the KMar. It was a long answer with quite a lot of management terms in it. How many of the people who leave the country via Schiphol Airport are actually being checked by the KMar to see if they are still eligible for that DNA collection? This seems to me to be a relatively important and vulnerable point, especially if we fear that people are leaving abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u62	I have to come back to that. I may be able to do so in a moment, but otherwise I promise you I will come back to that. I can't give you precise numbers. It might make more sense to say so in the context of the letter which is also about to come on Mr Hoekstra's monitoring report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u63	Then the answer is included in the promised letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u64	Then I have a few more questions and they belong to Mr Van Nispen. There was actually a request for a system that passed the legal test, which was a suggestion, but I do believe it is shared for destruction in case of no conviction and also for not including the material in the DNA database. It is simply necessary to look at the whole process, which I would like to emphasise once again. All the points I have mentioned and which we must also prepare in that work process should be taken into account in the consideration of what that might look like. Again, if we know what the outcome of the evaluation is. Mr Van Nispen's question was why the Minister did not inform the Chamber in good time. Let me get this straight: in general, it is not new information. The fact that persons without permanent residence or residence are difficult to trace is already mentioned in the Hoekstra monitor. Hoekstra also indicates that this results in an increase in the number of alerts in OPS. Furthermore, the report of the inspection reached me on 20 June and the broadcast of Newsuur was in itself a merit of Newsuur, which is not the case a few days before, I believe. It's not like I didn't send data from that report directly to your room. I'll wait and then I'll come to the two motions. That's the last of it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u65	I was just about to say that I wanted to finish the block of Van Nispen here too. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u66	The point is that the Minister is now saying very easily: there was an inspection report and I would have reported it to the Chamber. It is about the fact that the predecessor of this minister, who is responsible for this, has made very firm promises that the problem would be resolved. And it's not that the problem has stayed a bit or that it's gotten a little better. No, the problem has doubled. So there was a lot going on. The question is, therefore, whether the Minister does not think it would have been on his way to inform the Chamber about this by itself, if I hear him say here that it did not come as a surprise to him, that it was not news and that he actually knew it. Could the Minister not have informed the Chamber earlier: there is a problem, this is the analysis and we need to talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u67	I said that what was already known, of course, also from Hoekstra: the problem was around the people without permanent residence and residence. I think we can see that this problem is continuing and that it is gradually expanding, because every year there are just a few of those people in the file of people who want DNA to be taken away from. That's one thing. The second thing I have said is that the concrete figures and figures reached me on 20 June through the inspection. I simply sent that report to your Chamber after taking note of it. By the way, Hoekstra already reported 15,000 in his first report of 2016. So all of a sudden, I don't think we should say anything to each other. Then there's something else. My predecessor, Mr Tugendhat, is, of course, I myself, I shall say, Mr Tugendhat, did not say: we are going to solve this completely. My predecessor, the Minister, I myself, stated in February 2017 that the first monitoring of Hoekstra clearly shows that there are improvements, but that much more needs to be done and that there is concern about this category, which continues to grow. It is only on the basis of the advice I have from the Council of State and Erasmus University that it is not wise to initiate the process of amending the law now. First of all, we will have to go through the process, as annoying as it may be, of completely scraping out the current legislation to see what is possible. This process will only end with the evaluation next spring. I share the urgency, which I test with virtually everyone in the Chamber, to say that, consecutively, the Hoekstra monitoring report and the inspection report of the JenV inspection give sufficient ground to say: let us prepare ourselves completely for a possible legislative amendment. We do finish that evaluation neatly, but if there is that evaluation and it gives the necessity, then we are fully prepared on all fronts, in terms of work processes, costs and the design of ICT, so that we can move quickly. Mr. Chairman. I come to the two motions that are before me, if you will allow me to go on with that. First of all, Mr Van Oosten's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u68	That's the motion in part No. 451.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u69	That's the second motion. It may be a little unusual, but I still want to finish with the most important motion, which is part number one. 450. The motion in part No. 451 is also very important, if only because it was signed by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Dam, Mr Grotehuis and Mr Van Nispen. However, I would suggest that this motion be held. I admit that I will contact my colleague in the Home Office, because this is her area of activity and responsibility on this point of the BRP registers and the gaps and that we will be sending a letter to your Chamber at the beginning of the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u70	Thank you. I am looking in the direction of Mr Van Oosten. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u71	That is good, provided that the Minister does not point out to his colleague that he considers this to be a less significant motion, because then I believe that nothing will come of it. If we can agree that after the summer I will receive a note on how to implement this, I will keep her on until then. If there's no note, I'll have the motion put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u72	I would like to stress that this motion is the most important one this evening in so far as it concerns motions relating to the field of activity of more than one minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u73	At the request of Mr Van Oosten, I propose his motion (29279, No. 451) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u74	On the motion in part No. I would like to say straight away that I leave the judgement to the Chamber. I understand very well from the last part of this motion, which calls on Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Dam and Mr Van Oosten, and Mrs Helder and Mrs Kuik, on my part, to speed up this evaluation substantially. I told you in my introductory speech that we should not do so in such a way as to lose the specific weight of the evaluation, respectively, in terms of freedom or independence. I promise you that I will do this and I will inform your Chamber about it after the summer so that we do not lose anything in transparency compared to each other. Because the last thing this minister wants is for the investigation to lose value by doing too much work. Then I come to the most important point: the request that, in addition to the preparation of the specific legislative proposal, everything be prepared for a broader legislative proposal. I leave that to the Court's judgement, because I am well aware that the need for the evaluation can be such that we say that it should not take place at the time of insurance, but at the time of detention, for example, so that the need is lighter. It may also be that the need is heavy across the board. We do not want to find out at the beginning of spring 2019 that we have prepared everything for the "without permanent residence or residence" suspect and still have to wait for that wider group, because we find that there is a much larger, wider need. I understand that. That's why I say "judge chamber." I would, however, like to stress to the signatories of the motion that the need under the European Convention on Human Rights will have to weigh more heavily in order to justify it to the whole group. You can also read this in the opinion of the Council of State, where the Council of State has just suggested doing it for the category of people with permanent residence or residence, because at least I would be on the verge of my 'needs', if I may put it that way. So far. On this motion, I give "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u75	Thank you. That raises another question for Mr Van Nispen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u76	I do understand, however, that the distinction is not necessarily fundamental in terms of infringement of the ECHR. I also understand that the Minister would like to look at the legal aspects of how this is to be done. I only thought he understood from his letter that by far the vast majority of outstanding alerts concern people without permanent residence or residence, namely more than 20,000 of those 21,000 we are talking about. Now I think the Minister is very pliable by saying: well, then I am going to open it up to the whole group. I want to make sure that I understand this correctly or that the Minister says that it is a bit more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u77	That's what we're gonna ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u78	Now it's suggested that I want to open it up to the whole group. Those are giant steps that don't do justice to how it should go. This is not just a game of words, this is important. Just to be clear, we have an evaluation that, if it's up to us, might come to us in the winter of 2019. It would be really nice if we had that evaluation. This evaluation can clearly show the need to adapt the legislation. At the moment, as we are gathered here as a Chamber and Cabinet, we have indications from the monitoring of Hoekstra and the inspection report that it may go that way. We want that to be carefully evaluated. I have said that I think that we should at least be fully prepared for a possible change in the law that the insurance scheme chooses as the point for DNA collection of people without permanent residence or residence. It may also be that the evaluation shows that the need is much greater and that the legislative amendment should concern the very broad group mentioned by Mr Van der Staaij in his motion. I have said that the need for this very broad group will have to be demonstrated. It's possible. Then I understand that Mr Van der Staaij and others, including you, are saying in this motion: at least prepare yourselves here in the broadest possible way, because it would be a great shame if at the beginning of 2019 you noticed that the evaluation states that it is necessary for the insurance of the very broad group and you then have to explain that all the work processes, the ICT and I know a lot more need to be set up for people with permanent residence or residence. Scouts say, "be prepared." And I want to be by the time we talk about the evaluation. The Van der Staaij motion also says: 'be prepared' on the broad group. I'm gonna leave that judge room, because I can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u79	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u80	Honestly, I already knew all this. This is what I understood. It will be up to me that I have not made my question sufficiently clear. I said that the distinction was not fundamental to me and that my name is not under the motion because I hesitate about it. That's because of the letter from the minister himself. The Minister has written: there is now a problem, especially with the people without permanent residence or residence. Let me ask my question like this. If the evaluation shows more or less the same picture, namely that there are more than 20,000 out of 21,000 people and that this is by far the largest group, can the Minister say that he still thinks that this is sufficient reason to proceed with a legal exploration of the whole group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u81	The evaluation per file is not just looking at the numbers about who eventually had his DNA taken. It is also looking at how the work processes have worked out under the current law, what efforts have been made and what the final results have been. I quoted Mrs Helder, who said that we had the first talks in the summer of 2015 on the basis of the Hoekstra Committee. On this important issue, I would like to leave open the possibility that the evaluation still shows the need to involve this in a wider group, even though I did not put it that way in my letter. If that is the case, then we are as well prepared as we would be with the group without permanent residence and residence. This is meant to get along really well. If we do not see this need in January, February, or when it will be, in broad terms, but for the group without a place of residence or a place of residence, then we must recognize that we are only going to amend the law on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u82	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his positive response to the motion. At one point, the Minister had a brief comment on the evaluation in the summer or winter of 2019. That all of a sudden sounded a long way away. We understand each other well that it was initially in April 2019, but that the commitment is to deliver the evaluation earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u83	My upbringing was characterized by knowing when the Eleven Cities Tours were going. The heaviest Dutch winter was that of 1963, when Reinier Paping won. That winter took place from 21 December 1962 until 21 March 1963. One speaks of winter in a given year when the predominant part is in that year. The winter of 2019 thus starts on 21 December 2018 and ends on 21 March 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u84	Thank you for this explanation. I am looking in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. That's enough for him. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u85	I am still a little concerned by the discussion that Mr Van Nispen is now addressing. I don't know if he means it that way, but he makes it a numerical discussion: if out of the 21,000 there are now 20,000 without a permanent place to live or stay, then you only have 1,000 with an address, and so on. With my example of the man with the bike, I wanted to say that there are very different lines in this dossier. I would therefore like to stress once again that the evaluation that will be produced in due course should facilitate this discussion. Of course, the numerical element has to come to the fore, but also all the other interests that lead to the balancing. We need to be able to make that assessment here. Perhaps with this interruption I would like to combat my own ambiguity at this time of day, but I would like to hear that confirmation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u86	I can answer this very briefly, because this is indeed what I mentioned with one or two examples: the evaluation is becoming much wider. The evaluation looks in one sentence whether the DNA-V Act works in such a way that DNA sampling takes place after weighing all interests, at the right time, with the optimal result, while respecting the rights of suspects and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u87	A short question from Mr Van Nispen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u88	In order to avoid misunderstandings, I did not mean to say that it is purely a question of numbers for me. However, the figures will help to determine the necessity, as prescribed by human law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u89	Thank you for this clarification. I'm looking in the direction of the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u90	Numbers always contribute to an image.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u91	Thank you. The Minister was done with the answer. We've received the verdict on the motions. That brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the government. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I look into the Chamber and see that there is no need for a second term. This means that we will come to the end of the discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-19.u92	Voting on the motions tabled will take place tomorrow afternoon. I thank the Minister for his input in this debate. I would like to thank Members of Parliament for their late contributions and contributions to this debate. The same applies to those who have followed this debate at home or in another way. That concludes today's sitting. Thank you.
