ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with Mrs Agema's question on behalf of the PVV to the Minister for Medical Care, whom I would also like to welcome, on the supervision of medical implants. I call Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A pack of milk that's wrong with it is traceable in four hours, but not an implant in your body. That's pretty bizarre. It is particularly regrettable that last night the Minister for Medical Care did not want to respond in the Radar programme, which highlighted a worldwide investigation into rigging with implants. The investigation gives a staggering picture. Before an implant comes onto the market, little research is done, and once it is on the market, it is hardly followed. A lot of information isn't public. WOB procedures are unnecessarily trained and crucial information is not released. Something's wrong with more than a quarter of the implants. That scares me. People are at risk and put into life-threatening situations. It's not just breast implants. It is also about pacemakers, VNS implants for epilepsy and so on. If you look at how strict medicines are controlled before they come on the market, you don't understand why it's left in implants that you get in your body. There's gotta be another way. It has been clear to us for a long time that the rules made in Brussels do not work. That is why we have been advocating barcoding since 2010. In 2017, our amendment was adopted that wanted to regulate the traceability of unsafe implants by providing them with a uniform identification code or barcoding. But that was against the sore leg of former Minister Schippers. This minister, Minister Bruins, sent a legislative amendment to the Chamber to exploit the policy of PVV influence and actively carry the amendment to the grave. Now what? Does he reverse his blunder and enter a uniform barcode? If not, how and in what time will he ensure that Dutch patients can find out if their implant is safe? Three: how is he going to ensure that people with implants are no longer at risk of leakage, empty batteries, loose screws or, worse, fatal side effects? And finally, how is he going to ensure that implants are independently assessed for efficacy and safety, as we do with medicines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u3	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I understand that Mrs Agema goes back to her earlier amendment. I think we all think that it has taken far too long before implants are all provided with a uniform bar encoding. Not all implants have that kind of encryption yet. The Netherlands cannot now require manufacturers to place barcoding on the implant, which is contrary to European law. We would then be forced to start a time-consuming procedure with an uncertain outcome. The European obligation to place such a unique bar coding applies from 2021. We don't want to wait that long. That is why I proposed to the Chamber this spring to ensure that there is a legal basis under the National Implant Register. Call it a field appointment, which regulates for a large part of the implants that they must be provided with a barcode and must therefore be recorded in the National Implant Register via the electronic patient file. That is voluntary, and it is much faster than European regulation. It can start on 1 January next year. I think that's important. In reply to another question from Mrs Agema, I think it should not only be the National Implant Register. This can help us in the coming period, especially as long as there is no European system. But I also think that Reporting Point Side Effects, which was mentioned yesterday in Radar's broadcast, is very important. I call on patients as well as professionals to report side effects, because I think we can learn from that. Finally, Mr President. It's a misunderstanding that I didn't want to react in Radar. I've responded to Radar, very comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u5	Of course, it didn't happen that way. Not only did this minister take over the ministry of his former colleague Schippers, he also took over her political hat. That is what he said in his response: European law. So it was about the money. The money from the manufacturers was more important than the patients and therefore the patients do not now have uniform barcoding. Therefore, it is not possible to determine who has which implant that is wrong with. There are now people at home with all kinds of implants in their bodies that they don't know if those implants are defective. At the moment when the defects are proven, we also do not know which people the implants are placed with. Then the Minister has to say, "Now I'm putting things in order." He shouldn't say, "Yes, but we'll get a register." No, he must proceed to uniform bar encoding. How can we know within four hours of a pack of milk that's wrong, what supermarkets those milk packs are in, but we don't know who got leaky breast prostheses? The Minister is not going to solve that with half-baked proposals and with what he was just talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u6	I wish we had that uniform barcode, but it's a European deal. Unfortunately, time has to pass until 2021. I think it is important that from 1 January we have a national implant register with a legal basis. That gives us a perspective of action. Don't wait for Europe; start early. That is how I discussed it with the Chamber last spring, and that is also the route I want to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u7	I thought you were gonna sit down again, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u8	The minister says he liked a uniform barcode, but last May we dealt with his legislative amendment here in the House of Representatives. In doing so, he has actively reversed us on this uniform barcoding amendment. I'm truly stunned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. Mr Van Gerven was the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u10	The minister is absent when it comes to closing hospitals and he's just gonna let the people in Lelystad and Urk crack. The Minister is absent from Radar's broadcast, where it is shown very loudly that manufacturers literally go over corpses to make big money. My question to the Minister is: where was he? Why wasn't he on the air? Does he support the conclusion that implant manufacturers literally go over corpses to make big money? Finally, is the Minister prepared to set up a college assessment implants to disable commercial registration agencies and ensure that proper implants are placed on the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u11	In response to the first question: I was preparing the interviews with the hospitals: today's conversation with Slotervaart Hospital and tomorrow's conversation with Lelystad. That's why I wasn't on the air last night, but I'd like to say that I did respond. About corpses? Definitely not. It is important to put patient safety first. That's what I'm doing. A college implant registry? No, we invested that task in the inspection and that task is well invested there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mrs. Agema called it "suddening." That is very well formulated. It is staggering and disgusting that this implant industry puts its own financial importance first at the expense of the safety of patients who need a safe implant. Now it appears that not only in the Netherlands the problems are very big, but that they also play in all kinds of other places in Europe and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u13	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u14	My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to include in the register all complaints and such signs given by patients and doctors, so that they can be widely shared and patients can consciously opt for an implant. And is he also willing to plead internationally, in Europe, for...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u15	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u16	... a monitoring body, so that the implants can also be better monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u17	Perhaps it is right to start with the questions rather than with a very long introduction, because then the Minister can also give a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mrs Ellemeet talks about the notified bodies. That seems important to me. That's what I'm gonna do. I am going to organise a round table with those parties to highlight the importance of patient safety from their mouths and from my mouth and to discuss it. In reply to Mrs Ellemeet's second question, I think it is very important that people report side effects in the National Implant Register and I call for that. I also think that this side-effects centre should be better known. For this, I will discuss with the RIVM how to increase awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mrs Van den Berg, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mr. Chairman. We also read in reactions that hospitals are not always clear when they have to report problems with medical implants at the inspection. Does the Minister recognize that image?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u21	In case a hospital or a doctor doubts whether something is an incident or a calamity, I would say: report, just report. In addition, I think it is very important for patients to be reported at the Adverse Reactions Contact Point, because we can do so much more with that information. Then we can analyze it, and we can learn lessons from it. I think reporting point Side effects is very important, much more important than the last report of the hotline. It's kind of a first report. I think we should have more information so that we, as patients, can have a better conversation with the doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr Raemakers, on behalf of the CDA. I think it was your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u23	D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u24	I also saw Mr. Kerstens. Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u25	I would also like to ask you about this. When it comes to class 1 notifications, which are about serious injury and possible death, it turns out that out of the 22 safety warnings that are internationally known, seven are not available on the IGJ's website.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u26	IGJ?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u27	The Health and Youth Inspectorate. Also there are reports only from 2016, so it doesn't appear before. How does the Minister feel that not all reports, which are really about class 1, can be found on the IGJ site and what can he do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u28	I have to ask about these numbers at the inspection, but I want to make a clear distinction between on the one hand calamities and incidents, which are also about the actions of professionals............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's what Radar's broadcast was all about. I believe that patients should be put in a much stronger position when it comes to their information position. I want to work actively on this, on the one hand, through the National Implant Register; not waiting for Europe to start on 1 January, and on the other hand, the reporting point for side effects. That seems to me to be the practical route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u29	The minister said he'd check with us at the inspection. Will the Chamber be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u30	I will. It is specifically about the numbers, because I know the inspection has been informed, but I need to look at those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you. Mr Kerstens, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u32	Radar's television broadcast also discussed the situation in France yesterday. The French health inspection has sent a letter on high feet to the Minister of Public Health, with the result that a certain type of breast implants, textured implants, is immediately prohibited. The minister just said he was busy answering Chamber questions about the Slotervaart hospital and the like last night. My question is whether, when answering these questions, he took the time to call his French colleague and whether he will immediately announce such a ban for those implants that are proven to be unsafe until there is more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u33	It was in the broadcast about a condition called ALCL, which allows you to get lymph node cancer. Although ALCL has been identified primarily in women with a textured implant, there are still insufficient research results to assess the relationship between ALCL and smooth breast implants. The French regulator has recently given the advice of choosing those smooth implants from now on. But precisely because it is not yet clear that this species, i.e. those smooth implants, does not pose as much or perhaps just other risks to ALCL, the Netherlands does not follow this advice. RIVM considers it too early to draw this conclusion from the research available so far. The European Member States are not taking over the French opinion. And yes, I've been trying to get the French colleague on the line all day long to get a little more explanation of her advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u34	Now for the next question, by Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS. So you'd better stand up, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u35	Yes, Mr. Chairman. More research into the quality of the implants and also monitoring of implants should be put back into public hands as far as 50PLUS is concerned. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u36	I believe that this market authorisation is very good for private parties to invest. I do think that these notified bodies must meet good conditions; I have said that before. I also think I should ask those parties for the table, and I'm going to. I don't think cutting off the switch and organizing public oversight will automatically make it better. As far as I am concerned, this has not been demonstrated by yesterday's Radar broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u37	Your second question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u38	Yes, Mr President, my second question, because this is too important. The Minister doesn't believe it can do better. We see this notified body is a disaster, don't we? And then there is the example of Radar of the pomegranate net. How can it be that what could have happened then is still going on? What has improved in the meantime? Can the Minister prove that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u39	We have much less notified bodies than several years ago. Those notified bodies are a European system that I agree perfectly with. I do think it's important for me to be able to look at them and address them myself. I've said before that I'm committed to that, too. I'll invite them to the table. I believe that the European system with these private organisations can work well. I believe that the new European regulation, which will start in 2020, will only make the requirements higher and heavier. After a few years, it will be monitored again whether this heavier position has also achieved the effect we expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr Arno Rutte, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u41	Mr. Chairman. A very compelling broadcast of Radar based on a very large international investigation, which has been brought by several media. But now the Chamber just made a contribution to the Medical Devices Act last week. Is the Minister prepared to give an official response to the findings made yesterday in the investigation, not just by Radar, and to send them to the Chamber, so that we can soon involve them in the treatment of this Medical Devices Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u42	I'd be happy to. I would even have liked to present a letter on the issue of patient safety, because I think this is an important subject. I can go into the round table that I want to set up with those notified bodies, but also the point that I think is very important and that we have not yet discussed here this afternoon, namely the discussion between doctors and the Patient Federation about strengthening the decision-making process, precisely with a view to the high availability of resources and the explicit need for patient safety to ensure this. Some of them are there, but we're not going fast enough and there aren't enough of them. That needs to be better, and I'd like to explain it in a letter. I suggest I send it to you before the end of the year, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you.
