ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to the second question, from Mr von Martels, on behalf of the CDA, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management, on the report that the driving licence of hundreds of elderly people is wrongly taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From air traffic we go to road traffic. My questions are related to the next article. Last Sunday, the NOS reported that the police and the Marechaussee have wrongly taken driving licences from 229 motorists aged 70 and over over for the last three years. However, after medical examination and possibly a driving test, these 70-plussers were found to be completely in order. Often they only got their driver's license back after more than six months. More than six months; that's very long if you depend on your car. The CBS criticises the fact that the return procedure is bureaucratic and takes unnecessarily long. I find that extremely strange. Why does it take so long? The CBR may do four months on the medical examination procedure. That too is a long time, but we hear that there will be an overall evaluation before the summer. It also takes into account the length of such deadlines. Any sign of that yet? Another problem is that the victims are convinced that an appeal against the seizure of a driving licence is in fact pointless. On paper there is the possibility of a profession, but the CBR employees sometimes do not recommend it. In Dutch criminal law, your position as a suspect is much stronger than in these kinds of issues in administrative law, where the CBR can go blind to the policeman's or policewoman's statement; please have a reply from the minister. The figures contradict that older people cause more accidents than young people. Is the Minister convinced that there is no age discrimination? Can the procedure for correcting the decision of a policeman or woman be accelerated? When exactly can we expect the evaluation? Can the Minister indicate what else is being taken into account in addition to the length of the deadlines? Is the granting of driving licences to people with autism also being evaluated? Finally, is the Minister prepared to adapt the deadlines in consultation with the CBR? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me put this in front of you. The main question was whether there is age discrimination. I can make it quite clear that this is absolutely not the case. It is also well known to the police that the biggest chunks are not among the elderly. So it's really not in there. The police only take action here when there are really clear indications that someone simply is not fit to participate in traffic in this way as a driver. This also applies to young people. It may, in a manner of speaking, also be someone who, I'm just saying, has something called epilepsy or something like that. There can therefore be all kinds of reasons why the police think: this person must be investigated. Then the length of the procedure on the police side. It should be forwarded to the CBR within six months. I cannot go into that very much; you will have to ask Mr Grapperhaus about that. You have already mentioned the so-called five-yearly evaluation we are doing at the CBR. That is what the standard test of efficiency, effectiveness, governance and internal organisation is about. But of course there are also the critical performance indicators. This means that it will also be checked whether the CBR complies with the legal deadlines of responses. Well, that goes wide of course for all the driving licence variants and all the tests that are going on there. That is all part of the evaluation. I am just getting the message that this evaluation will come to the House of Representatives before the summer, with a policy response from our ministry. That's what you'll get for the summer recess. By the way, you should realize that the CBR works with such a four-week period for reaction. Of course, it all has to be processed. If additional studies are needed, the CBR does not, of course, control them. These cases often involve medical examinations, for example with an ophthalmologist when it comes to someone who might still have to undergo cataract surgery. In such cases, of course, the CBR has no control over how quickly someone can make an appointment with one or more specialists. We therefore keep a close eye on the performance of the CBR itself, but the total length is made up of a piece of police, a piece of CBR and a piece of possible investigations, for example with medical specialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	I agree with you that I should perhaps be with your colleague Minister Grapperhaus for questions to the police. However, it is not clear enough from your reply that you want to work to ensure that these deadlines of the CBR can be shortened. That's exactly my bet. It has proved too often that these deadlines are being exceeded, or at least that the victims suffer so much from them that you will ask: can't that be shorter? That is what I am committed to doing, and I hope that you will cooperate fully in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	At present, 88% of the four-week deadline is also met. I agree with you that that should be 100%. You ask: what can you do to make an extra effort? If that's what you're asking, I'd like to have that conversation with the CBR as well. But once again, within the whole process, agreements with medical specialists and so on are sometimes the cause of something taking longer. By the way, I fully agree with you that the case of the gentleman in the broadcast was, of course, extremely poignant. You're just really good and fit and it'll take you seven months to get your license back. That is a situation in which you can fully sympathize with the man in question; that situation is extremely frustrating. I shall be happy to discuss this again with Mr Grapperhaus. Where, in conversation with the police, we can speed things up, we will certainly not fail to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	I had asked one more question in the first term, which the Minister probably did not get to. There will therefore be an evaluation before the summer. In addition to the length of the time-limits, does this include, for example, the granting of driving licences to people with autism? Is that being evaluated, too? Is there a complete picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	To be honest, I do not know from my head that it is being discussed specifically. I see people shaking in the back of the room, so I assume that autism is not a specific peculiarity that is recorded separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	Well, that's probably a reason for me to come back to this later. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, it is enough for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At 50PLUS, the reactions flow in. People are asking: are elderly people outlawed? How does the Minister assess the huge difference in understanding between the findings of the Stichting Scientific Research Road Safety and the CBR? This foundation states that only 1% of the cases where 75-plussers are declared unfit after an inspection. And the CBR states that 12% is suitable, so 88% is unsuitable for driving. How does the Minister explain this difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	You should bear in mind that this concerns the specific groups that have been mentioned as question marks. Of course, you have the large group that has to undergo periodic inspections if the driving licence is to be renewed. Only 1% of that group is declared unfit, but of course that is quite different from the category that the police have already picked off the road because they were, for example, driving ghosts or something like that. For the rest, you are absolutely right: if you look at the accidents, then it is a completely different picture. That is what I said earlier in the introduction. If you compare the categories of older people and young people, young people are the large group at risk and the elderly are generally doing very neatly. But it's about the specific group where the police have indications that something is really wrong. For example, in a ghost rider it is fairly visible. In that group it appears that 88% of the cases are better for the person concerned to have no more driving licences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	Second supplementary question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	We have already mentioned once that children can also report parents if they have a vague suspicion and that it is quite difficult to prove. What objective criteria does the police have to take a driver's license on the spot? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	I really must refer to Mr Grapperhaus. For an answer to the question of exactly what instructions are given to the police and when, under what circumstances, the arrest and recovery of the driving licence will take place, you should really be with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	Of course, the police aren't doctors. It's nice when the police guard the safety and the doctor checks the driving ability based on a medical indication. Older people have to pick up a medical indication every five years as part of their driving skills. Could that period perhaps be shorter, so that the reliability of that indication will increase again and hopefully this kind of situation will be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	There's always two sides to the case. Of course, we do not want to deny older people, who are increasingly fit and vital, their mobility. That is why the border has also shifted from 70 to 75. So I do not see a direct reason to do so in one go much faster. On the other hand, it is very good that someone, if he is really not fit to participate in traffic anymore, is arrested by the police or that the CBR is then tipped off by family, friends, acquaintances or neighbors, as Mrs Van Brenn just indicated. You prefer to talk to the person himself or to the family, because you have to guarantee safety on the road with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	My question concerns the examination of people with disabilities, such as autism. A year and a half ago, the CBR decided to reduce the number of locations for examination for people with disabilities, such as autism. We asked questions about that back then. In the meantime, the CBR has decided to increase the number of examination sites, except for people with disabilities, such as autism, while that group would have the greatest interest in taking the exam in its own environment. Is the Minister prepared to take this issue into account in her contacts with the CBR, with the aim of ensuring that this quality improvement applies not only to the CBR and to all people in general, but also to people with disabilities and to those locations to be expanded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	The good news is that there is indeed another extension of exam locations. This also happens because there is a boom in applying for exams. There is therefore a growth in mobility needs. I do not have this particular point on the retina, but I would like to tell you that I will check with the CBR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	And then you will inform the Chamber in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	I shall, of course, inform the Chamber about this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	That saves you a question, Mr Van Helvert. Thank you, Minister. From the elderly we go to the young.
