ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law 34517, Declaration that there is grounds for considering a proposal to amend the Constitution to include a provision on the right to a fair trial. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Madam President. And now for something completely different, I thought on the spot. Madam President. The D66 Group welcomes the fact that today, at first reading, we are discussing a proposal that brings our Constitution to an important point. On several occasions in this Chamber, on behalf of my group, I have argued that our Constitution is in need of overall modernisation in more ways, but in the meantime any partial improvement is welcome. What is more, we welcome the government's desire to honour the request of the First Chamber, which derives its right of existence, inter alia, from the concern for the constitutionality of the state's trade. The right to a fair trial is, in a democratic rule of law, an uncontested principle, both enshrined in our Constitution, which guarantees the independence of the courts, and enshrined in the directly applicable Treaty provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. According to the government, the proposed article of the Constitution has an important symbolic function. With the inclusion of the right to a fair trial, the Constitutionalist shows that its guarantee is of great importance. This could contribute to strengthening citizens' confidence in the Dutch rule of law and justice. My group recognizes the fundamental importance that the Constitution in general and the proposed provision in particular have or should have for the social confidence in the establishment and functioning of our state institutions. However, we would like the government to explain why the proposed provision has precisely this supposed and relevant meaning in itself. For the wording of the proposed provision, the government has sought to align itself with the so-called sober nature of the Constitution. In addition, the government intends to align itself with existing legislative practice and developments in case law, where Article 6 ECHR in particular plays an important role. For the purposes of this legislative proposal, it is relevant to have an idea of what is meant by the right to a fair trial. According to the legal text, the following elements can be included: the right of access to justice, the right to deal with a case within a reasonable period of time and the right to an independent and impartial judge. Elements such as, for example, the right to an equivalent procedural position and the right to equivalent procedural means are not included. The same applies to the quality of legal aid. The disadvantage of this choice is that the legal text cannot fully identify the guarantees that are relevant to a fair trial. Another option would therefore have been to define the elements of the right to a fair trial in its entirety, i.e. as complete as possible in the Constitution, but it could be repeated that these safeguards are already enshrined in the general wording of this right. My group can imagine that it is difficult to consider this issue. We have noticed that the Constitutional Affairs Committee has not been able to reach a unanimous opinion on this issue either. In that light, it is understandable that the government did not want to take on an integral constitutional definition of the right to a fair trial. This choice, in the government's view, then gives the legislator and the judge room for a more detailed interpretation of the term "fair process." In the written preparation, the government indicated, in response to a question raised by my group on this point, that new or amended legislation in the field of procedural law would have to comply with the proposed constitutional provision. In addition, the government has indicated to my group that a more abstract provision offers more room for interpretation for the courts. The consequence of the government's choice of open wording is that a more detailed explanation of the concept of "fair trial" should be linked to the interpretation of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on Article 6 of the ECHR and of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg on Article 47 of the Fundamental Rights Charter. I would like to ask the government to reflect once again on whether the chosen open wording of the article provides the legislator and the judge with sufficient context to achieve, where appropriate, a clear and adequate, i.e., in general terms, the safeguards laid down in the law, in line with the concept of 'fair trial'. Mr. Chairman. In the opinion of the government, this proposal has not only symbolic significance but also added value in terms of content. The proposed provision establishes a minimum level of protection of the right to a fair trial for all possible disputes. This provision thus provides in principle more protection than the right of access to justice guaranteed by Article 6 ECHR, it seems. This European fundamental right is limited to disputes relating to the establishment of civil rights and obligations and cases relating to criminal proceedings. Disputes concerning, for example, the application of foreign law, tax law, civil service law or political rights are not covered, as the Council of State has indicated. Moreover, Article 47 of the EU Charter does not know this limitation, but this rule is only relevant in the implementation of EU law. It applies only to the application of EU law by the European institutions and to situations in which Member States act within the scope of Union law. In other words, to protect fundamental rights in the Charter only against the implementation of EU law which is somewhat related to its national impact. There must be a genuine violation of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by Union law. In practice, it will now be necessary to establish whether the proposed constitutional anchoring of the right to a fair trial, due to the wider scope of application envisaged, has any added value of state law and will lead to greater legal protection. This will also depend on whether this provision actually encourages the legislator and the court to take active legal form, as the government assumes. I would like to hear again from the government what expectations we, as a constitutional body, may have on this issue. The government has chosen to formulate the right to a fair trial and to an independent and impartial judge as a subjective right or fundamental subjective right that gives the citizen a certain right vis-à-vis the judge and the legislator. The new article is therefore set out in Chapter 1 of the Constitution. The government depends this choice on the chosen purpose of the proposal: to establish a fundamental right for citizens who can be invoked against the courts. This is also consistent with the placing of this fundamental right in international treaties. My group agrees that it is important for this proposal to provide a constitutional basis for legal practice, where the scope of Article 6 ECHR and other applicable Treaty provisions is inadequate. This provides a relevant possibility for the legislator and the court to further elaborate or supplement the substantive safeguards contained in the proposed constitutional text if necessary or desired. However, the question arises as to whether placing in Chapter 6 of the Constitution on justice would no longer have been obvious. A constitutional mandate to the judge and also to the legislator to ensure a fair trial would, in my group's view, be appropriate, for example, to the provisions on the independence of the judiciary provided for in Articles 117 and 118 of the Constitution. In addition, the nature of the right to a fair trial differs in a certain way from that of regular classical fundamental rights. Our classical human rights are individual rights that protect citizens from a state violation of their fundamental rights and freedoms. In this sense, these fundamental rights, in addition to the principle of separation of powers, form the basis of the rule of law. The right to a fair trial also has characteristics that fit within the principle of separation of powers, in particular in line with the requirement of independent justice referred to in Chapter 6 of the Constitution. My group wonders whether this solution has been considered and, if so, why it has not been chosen. Mr. Chairman. Apparently, the government has also opted for incorporation into Chapter 1 in order to avoid a change in the establishment of the judicial organisation as laid down in Chapter 6. That's a rather defensive argument. Chapter 6 is not in all respects a model of constitutional clarity and topicality, for example when it comes to the meaning of the concept of "justice." The establishment of our system of legal protection is still rather differentiated and therefore complex. I would like to hear from the government how it views this observation of my group. Mr President, I shall conclude. The D66 Group welcomes this proposal and looks forward to the Minister's response to the comments made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Madam President. There are several indications of this Chamber. This is called the chamber of reflection, but also the guardian of the Constitution. Well, if we want to change something about that Constitution today, we need reflection. After all, it is important that the Constitution should not just be shattered. Something should only be done if it is considered and if it is clear what the consequences are. Putting something in should be careful and only when it's really necessary. At least that is the view of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Of course, it is in this room of reflection that it is useful to think about it and to speak about it. That is why the Minister of the Interior's view on this issue is being questioned. I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Today we are talking about adding to the Constitution the right to a fair trial. Weird, in fact, that this is not included in the Constitution, because it is about anchoring a concrete right. Law must be enforced, the law must have its course. That's an active way of dealing with justice and justice. That reminds me of that beautiful biblical expression: doing justice and justice. As you know, the Bible has been faithfully transferred from the original languages in our Dutch language by the burden of the High-Powerful Lords States-General of the United Netherlands. Now, there are comments, a kind of explanation of those texts. So, what's next? "Doing justice and justice" is noted, I quote again: "A way of speaking often used in Holy Scripture, meaning all that is good and justice, understood in the first and second tables of the law the ten commandments of private or public life." Good. Private and public. That is what our Constitution is about. A fair trial is an essential element in our rule of law, and that is why ensuring a fair trial also deserves to be included in our Constitution. Certainly, such a right is already included in the ECHR, but it is strange to have to refer to international conventions in such a clear right. The right to a fair trial can also be distilled from Dutch law, but given the nature of this fundamental right, this should also be enshrined in the Dutch Constitution, all the more so now that this right is extended to ECHR and will also apply to matters relating to the admission and expulsion of foreign nationals, tax matters and civil service. In short, this adds an essential and concrete element to the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Frankly, I blinked for a while when I first saw the bill coming along. Right to a fair trial makes sense, doesn't it, in a rule of law? But apparently we, limited people, sometimes overlook things. All the more reason to consider whether more essential points are missing in the Constitution. In that context, I still have a question for the Minister. The ECHR guarantees not only the right to a fair trial, but also the right to life. This is also enshrined in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Does the Minister agree with me that it is worth considering including the right to life in the Constitution, by analogy with the right to a fair trial? Is the Minister prepared to take any steps in this respect? Madam President, I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Madam President. This bill is the result of a motion by Mr Lokin-Sassen, previously adopted unanimously in this House on 7 February 2012. I therefore warmly congratulate Mrs Lokin-Sassen on the fact that the legislative proposal was adopted by the House of Representatives at first reading and is now before plenary. "Every person shall have the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time before an independent and impartial judge when establishing his rights and obligations or in determining the merits of proceedings brought against him.' This is the proposed provision that will be added to the current Article 17 of the Constitution. Let me say first of all that my group is sympathetic to the proposal. She also co-signed the motion at the time. Now that the right to a fair trial is such a fundamental pillar of our democratic rule of law, it is strange that the proposed provision had not been incorporated into the Constitution before. Nevertheless, my group has questions about the usefulness and necessity of the motion in the present legislative proposal and wishes to make a few comments on the possible effects of the legislative proposal. First of all, usefulness and necessity. The right to a fair trial is enshrined in international conventions, of which Article 6 of the ECHR is one of the most important. In addition, the right to a fair trial is widely recognised in the case law. The question can therefore be asked as to whether it is now necessary to include this right in our Constitution. Mrs Lokin-Sassen placed the considerations of her motion in the context of the rise of administrative fines, the ruling by the Public Prosecutor of certain offences, the subsequent reorganisation of the judicial card and the proposals for cost-covering registry rights. Let us stick to the last example. Laws are still not subject to review under the Constitution. After all, the Halsema initiative proposal has still not been presented for second reading and the question is whether it is going to happen at all. What effect can be expected from the proposed constitutional provision if, for example, a law on cost-covering registry rights cannot be reviewed by judges under the Constitution? For the record, my group would not be in favour of this either. She also voted against the Halsema Bill at first reading. What is the point of the present legislative proposal if the level of registry rights laid down in formal legislation cannot be assessed against the Constitution? Or is the government going to assume that the abolition of the constitutional ban is going to happen at some point? I'd like a response from the government. Mr. Chairman. The right to a fair trial includes, in addition to the principle of hearing and hearing again, the right of access to justice, a reasonable period of trial and support in the course of justice of suspects. Last week, we had an exchange of views on these issues at an expert meeting in preparation for the debate on the state of the rule of law and several debates were held earlier on these issues in this House. The members of the VVD Group wonder whether, in future, seekers of justice can rely on the proposed provision if, for example, they consider that the course of justice is too long, that the Registry fees are too high or that an addition lawyer is paid too low. We have just seen the black togas protesting at the rates of subsidised legal aid lawyers in the square. I refer to the various articles and studies which show the slowness of civil proceedings. An average lead time of one year of ordinary subpoena proceedings is no exception. One of the experts pointed this out at the preparatory meeting mentioned above. She was right to ask whether there was still access to justice, a fair trial. I'd like a response from the Minister. What expectations does she have? What are the possibilities offered by the proposed article to legal persons who consider, for example, that the registry rights are too high and therefore constitute a threshold for obtaining their rights through the public court or who consider that their lawyers, who work on an add-on basis, are not paid enough to be able to stand for good justice and therefore can take place in a fair trial? Another group of seekers of justice are those seeking justice who fall into the so-called middle group. They are not entitled to subsidised legal aid, but the amount of the Registry's duties and other costs make them refrain from going to court. This group of seekers of justice generally makes little noise but forms a silent protest group. They feel the distance from the democratic rule of law are increasing and there may come a time when this group too will use the proposed article to achieve its right. What can this group benefit from the proposed Article 17 of the Constitution? I would like a response from the government to this question as well. Madam President, I'm finishing up. All in all, my group is not yet fully aware of how to appreciate this proposal. Of course, my group is very much in favour of a fair trial, and in principle it has no objection to including that right in the Constitution. In principle, because it does not yet have a precise picture of its impact. It looks forward with interest to the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Lokin on the fact that her motion has led us to consider today a proposed amendment to the Constitution. Not all the motions submitted by this Chamber achieve that result! Following the opinion of the State Committee, the examination in the First Chamber and the motion, the previous cabinet also recognised that existing individual legal protection is included in various constitutional articles, including Article 6 of the ECHR, but that such protection has no overall effect and therefore has limitations in its scope. My group is pleased that this finding has led to the present legislative proposal, which removes gaps in the safeguards of individual citizens and legal bodies by explicitly including the right to a fair trial in Chapter 1 of the Constitution. My group would like to draw attention to three points. The right to a fair trial may be invoked in the current situation on the basis of Article 6 of the ECHR, Article 47 of the European Charter or Article 14 of the IVBPR. I quote: "Enhancing the right to a fair trial in the Constitution and guaranteeing its inherent right of access to justice can also contribute to the citizens' confidence in the rule of law and, more particularly, in justice." That is what the cabinet writes in the explanatory memorandum. My group strongly supports this, but could the Minister explain again precisely in what areas and subjects this additional constitutional article has added value in practice compared to the current review framework? We see this added value, among other things, for foreign and tax matters, which so far only receive protection through Union law, but perhaps the Minister can add to it even further. In particular, my group is calling for attention to be paid to the following. Article 47 of the European Charter contains a provision on the right to legal aid, but according to the Government, the appropriate provision is not Article 17 but Article 18 of the Constitution. However, the question is whether, in particular, the legal aid financed is sufficiently protected there. The second paragraph of Article 18, which regulates legal aid for disadvantaged persons, is, in fact, a fundamental social right, since it is addressed solely to the public authorities. Therefore, the government did not review its plans for restrictions on legal aid under Article 18 but under Article 6 of the ECHR. My question is whether, following the inclusion of the proposed article, the legal aid financed could be assessed in the light of the new Article 17 of the Constitution and whether this would lead to other considerations. I would like to hear a comment from the Minister on this. My second point. The trend over the last few years is that we in this Chamber have adopted the necessary legislation by majority, which has increased the scope for imposing administrative sanctions without the intervention of the courts. In the hearing on the state of the rule of law, which has just been referred to, the Council also noted for the case-law that access to justice has become more limited in recent years. More cases are dealt with by the above-mentioned administrative measures and by criminal decisions through the Public Prosecutor. Insurers and other parties are increasingly forcing their customers to settle disputes with the robot judge or the so-called e-Court. Cheaper and more efficient is the claim, but also not transparent and without legal procedural guarantees. In addition, registry fees have been increased in recent years, courts closed and legal aid grants reduced. There are all sorts of reasons why access to the independent court has not become easier. The constitutional anchoring of a general right to a fair trial with a non-limiting scope can, in principle, constitute a good counterweight, but the right to a fair trial and access to justice must remain mutually exclusive. My question is therefore: is practice going to change and will we reverse the unwelcome trend in my group's view that the practical thresholds for bringing cases before the independent judge are ever higher? We would like to hear a response from the Minister. In other words, what can the Cabinet do to ensure that the constitutional change actually has the effect of actually improving the accessibility and accessibility of the judiciary and that this change in law does not just have a beautiful, symbolic meaning? Then there is our third point. In the Lower House, the groups of GroenLinks and D66, the last by Mrs Van Engelshoven, asked about the significance of this constitutional change for Article 120. That article says: "The judge does not take part in the assessment of the constitutionality of laws and treaties." In my group's view, the new Article 17 and the existing Article 120 are somewhat conflicting. However, the right to a fair trial is limited in its operation if the same Constitution again places a fundamental restriction on it further down the road: on the one hand, citizens cannot invoke Article 17 in court if they believe that a law is contrary to this, on the other hand, because the constitutional review itself is also an element of the right to a fair trial. The Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice have also been consulted in this direction. Would it not be reasonable for the cabinet to take up the discussion on the deletion of Article 120 with the possible adoption of this bill? This would increase the power of the new constitutional article for legal practice and thus become more than a reminder for the legislator himself. My group, also of course in the light of the Van Tongeren initiative proposal, which has already been mentioned, is better known by the name -Halsema, by the way, wondering how the current cabinet looks at this. The previous minister remained very reluctant in his written and oral reply in the Lower House. How does this Minister feel about that? Does it share our opinion? I come to my conclusion, Mr.... and that of the President-in-Office of the Council for the case-law that only with constitutional scrutiny can the Constitution become the beating heart of the rule of law, as is the case in most other countries? If not, what ambitions does it have with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u10	I followed with interest, of course, all the points, but certainly this last point, on Article 120 of the Constitution. Then the question came to my mind: do you have any idea why the Green Left Group in the European Parliament has so far refused to bring the relevant legislative proposal to second reading?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u11	Sure, some idea, but I would like to leave the responsibility for that with the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. But it is not entirely inconceivable that, from the moment you submit such a constitutional amendment, you may hope that the discussion and outcome will lead to a certain majority. In this context, we also find it interesting to see whether there is a cabinet that would support such a discussion. Perhaps that will add value to the debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u12	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Does this mean, when you turn so strongly to the government, that your group actually thinks that the continuation of the initiative proposal is no longer sensible and, possibly, after a number of elections and moments that have passed, it is no longer really a matter of state law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u13	The latter is, of course, a point of interpretation. I know the discussion of whether such a legislative proposal will have a birthday after first reading. The law is not entirely clear whether or not it is. There are interpretations of that. Let me be honest: I would find it helpful if a cabinet also said that this constitutional change that is on its way is potentially coming, because you never know how it will end up, and you never know how it will shed a better or other light on the discussion about Article 120. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u15	Thank you, Madam President. I too congratulate Mrs Lokin-Sassen. Her motion paved the way to the bill we're debating today. It concerns the legislative proposal Inclusion of a provision on the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. The PvdA Group thanks the government for answering our written questions. My group is pleased to note that the government is implementing the motion adopted by Mr Lokin-Sassen and others in this Chamber on 7 February 2012 with the legislative proposal before us. They continued with the motion the discussion surrounding the recommendation of the Constitutional Commission to include the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. The Constitutional Commission states that this may lead to additional legal protection if it is formulated in such a way that it has a wider scope of application than Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The government states that the proposed provision adds value to the Treaty provisions guaranteeing the right to a fair trial in order to fill a possible gap in individual legal protection at constitutional level. The present proposal covers all legal disputes, i.e. other than Article 6 of the ECHR, including disputes relating to the admission and expulsion of foreign nationals, tax procedures and all civil servants' disputes. This legislative proposal complements the rights and practices already deriving from international treaties with direct effect in the Dutch legal order, in particular Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as Article 47 of the EU Fundamental Rights Charter and Article 14 of the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. In the explanatory statement, the Government states that this proposal aims to ensure that the right to a fair trial before an independent and impartial judge is also enshrined in our Constitution within a reasonable period of time, as well as the inherent right of access to justice, thereby guaranteeing individual legal protection at constitutional level. The government rightly states that the right to a fair trial, partly because it is an essential condition for the effectivement of other fundamental rights, is an important part of the democratic rule of law and that anchoring that right in the Constitution can contribute to citizens' confidence in the rule of law. The PvdA Group supports the intention to anchor the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. In the government agreement Trust in the future, the government announces its intention to experiment more with neighbourhood judges and other forms of alternative dispute resolution, including mediation and a more effective use of the Legal Loket. My group asks the Minister to what extent the quality criteria of this bill for an open and fair trial for citizens also apply to the course to the district court and the other alternative forms of dispute resolution mentioned above. Does the scope of the new fundamental right extend to the district court or is it only a case in the classical sense? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the Constitutional Commission, several opinions pointed to the link between the right to a fair trial and the right to access to justice. For example, the Human Rights College points out the need not only to establish access to justice on paper, but also to guarantee access to justice in practice. Does the Minister agree with this? My group believes that the right of access to justice is of paramount importance in addition to the right to a fair trial. My group is asking the Minister to look into the question of how she looks at the possible consequences of the cuts in justice, subsidised legal aid and the increase in registry rights, which may restrict access to justice. On Thursday, February 1st, reference has already been made to this, dozens of lawyers demonstrated at the House of Representatives building. In toga they let you know that the size is full. These lawyers indicate that austerity has taken its toll. In their view, both access to law and lawyers' fees are under pressure. My group asks the Minister whether she shares these concerns. If so, what will the Minister do about it? If not, is the Minister prepared to investigate to what extent people on lower incomes are held back by possible consequences of the cuts in the court? Mr. Chairman. My group awaits the Minister's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u16	Thank you, Mr. Sini. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u17	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive reply she has sent us on behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister for General Affairs and the Minister for Legal Protection. As a result, I would like to deal briefly with the following issues: the right to a fair trial, access to justice and justice, justice within a reasonable period of time, and the enforcement and enforcement of laws. These issues are interrelated in different areas. I will therefore discuss them in conjunction. It is unfortunate that we are discussing this bill here today. A week ago, we had an exchange of views with a number of experts on the state of the rule of law in this house. Colleagues have already said so. Interesting comments were made in that debate, which also deal with this legislative proposal. I'll get back to you on that. As has already been pointed out by others, we owe the proposal to the Lokin-Sassen motion, which was adopted in this Chamber six years ago, and also, and this is important, to the prior report of the State Constitution Committee of November 2010. In the Lokin-Sassen motion, this Chamber urged the government to include an article in the Constitution, and I quote: 'a general right to a fair trial before an independent and impartial judge'. The proposed change of law is not entirely consistent with the 2012 motion, which is the draft law, and I quote again: "Everyone has the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time for an independent and impartial judge in determining the merits of a prosecution brought against him." I would point out in particular that the text of the motion has been added 'within a reasonable time'. According to the government, the purpose of the legislative proposal is to express explicitly the importance of the guarantee function of the Constitution for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. I would like to point out that last year in the House of Representatives, when it came to whether it would be wise to include the right to effective legal protection in Article 17 of the Constitution, the government indicated that it was not necessary, but it also stated that effective legal protection should actually be there, and not just in theory. I shall come back to that too. This brings me first of all to the right to a fair trial. In this context, with reference to the 2008 OM Act and the three reports of the Attorney General at the Supreme Court, I have argued that there are shortcomings in compliance with the rules. Criminal expert Laura Peters stated in her article in Trema in 2017 that serious errors are being made in the practice of the OM criminal order. She indicated that the risk of such errors could be reduced if we once again recognised the principle of the separation of powers and re-subject the OM decision to prior judicial review. I would like to hear from the Minister what she thinks of Mrs Peters's opinion. In the reply of 22 November 2017, I read that the Minister of Justice and Security is studying the conclusions of the second report Probable opposition. That's good. It will soon inform the Court of Justice of this. Can the Minister state what is meant by this soon? In its report of November 2010, the Constitutional Commission indicated that there is a close link between the right to a fair trial and the right to access to justice. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she shares that view of the committee. In my opinion, a fair trial and access to justice can only be discussed if such access is effective in everyday practice. In my opinion, this condition is often not met or is not met in the current circumstances as a result of the years of drastic cuts in the rule of law. We see this effect, in particular in terms of the reductions in legal aid financed, in the increase in the law of the Registry, in the judiciary, and in the police and prosecutors' offices. In practice, there appear to be too high thresholds for many individuals. I have argued, on behalf of my group, that the cuts in justice, including in view of the legislative amendment envisaged by the present proposal, are contrary to the right of access to justice. I referred to the 2013 publication of Tjeenk Willink entitled "The neglected state" and the 2014 publication of Corstens and Kuiper entitled "The access to justice in a modern rule of law." The Minister replied that the cuts are not contrary to the right of access to justice. According to the Minister, restrictions are permitted provided that they do not affect the essence of the right of access to justice, serve a legitimate purpose and are proportionate in the light of that objective. But it is precisely on the basis of that approach, which I understand, that the cuts are unacceptable in my opinion. Indeed, practice shows that the right of access to justice is actually affected and that the quality of the case-law has exceeded the limit of the permissible amount. We saw the consequences of the cuts in justice last week. Last week, the judges of the so-called Counter-Light Group strongly supported us on this issue. They warned us that weakening the position of the judiciary would ultimately affect the trias politicians and thereby the rule of law. The judges claimed that they felt that the financing of the case-law and accessibility were the two main problems. I quote a few passages from the arguments of the judges of the Counter-Lighting Group on funding. "The funding has been based on output financing since 2002. As of 2010, less money has been made available and a downward spiral has developed, with increasing workload. The quality has become increasingly under pressure, as noted in the Visitation Report led by Mr Cohen." That's a report from 2014. I'm still quoting the judges. "An incentive to work effectively is good, but the situation has gone far too far. There's a lot of work going on. To give you an idea: with about 10,000 people, 2,400 of whom are judges, more than 1.6 million cases are closed every year. The workload is very high. About ten years ago, you were surprised when someone had a burnout, but now it sometimes seems like a calculated business risk. The planned time for business is regularly out of balance with what it takes to take them off responsibly. Many colleagues now feel more of a decision-making machine than a judge." I still quote the judges: "Some examples: 20 minutes before a treatment of a child's removal is no exception. A little less than half an hour for a serious assault, which also requires attention for the victim, is really too little. In the absence of space at a multiple hearing, criminal proceedings may be planned on a single basis where multiple cases were more appropriate. Civil hearings are also often planned in the unacceptable long term. After the hearing, people have to wait a long time for their decision. One year to years could pass before people know what they're up to. Looking for the cause, we see that funding is not on one side, but on many sides under pressure." They call them four. "1. From 2010 onwards, the austerity system of output financing was no longer applied as agreed, but the Minister's household booklet became the leader. 2. The principles of this output financing are not in themselves real. For example, a judgment in default in a canton case is subject to a standard of one minute, one minute, one minute, and eight minutes for legal support. Everyone understands that reading the subpoena alone takes more time. 3. There is a lack of sufficient budget for renewal; large operations such as HGK and KEI are weighing down on the budget of the justice system, reducing the amount of money available for the justice system itself. Moreover, the budgets of the case-law anticipated future savings from these operations. In 2015, we warned about this wishful thinking. 4. Financing does not take timely and sometimes insufficient account of new legislation of later date. An example: where the victim's position has been strengthened in criminal law, this calls for more time in court, but the corresponding money is not foreseen in advance."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u18	I should like to come forward now, because I have the impression that Mr Ruers is not ready on this point. For the sake of this debate, I asked myself the following question, otherwise I may have a serious feeling of failure myself. This is all about issues that I think are more of a respect for the Ministry of Justice and Security than they fall within the margins of the discussion we are having today on the Constitution. What exactly do you want to achieve in this debate today, other than what is happening in the framework of the State of the rule of law? 'Cause I got that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u19	I understand your question. I also struggled with it when I first got the bill. But especially in the answers and in the last statement of reply, the Minister is going into these aspects in detail, in particular what is a fair trial in this context in relation to the other three points I mentioned. Since she has replied on behalf of the Minister for Legal Protection, I have taken the liberty of developing these aspects a little further. But I fully agree with you: it is certainly also largely on the board of the Minister for Legal Protection. But I am sure we will be able to talk about that. In this context, I would also like, if I may say so, to present it to this Minister, because she is defending this enlargement in the Constitution in the context of the fair process and so on. Madam President. According to the judges, the cuts also seriously damage other areas essential to the rule of law. They say, "No wonder the spokesmen are running. The financial squeeze has resulted in too few judges being trained in recent years." That's a big deal. "The development of legal staff is also high. Very few permanent contracts are being offered and we are increasingly hearing that the legal staff are unhappy about their remuneration and position. The occupation is not in order and this contributes to the fact that the handling of things takes a very long time, despite the efforts of many." Furthermore, it is said: "We see that efficiency is still above content. Due to the highly operational control, the domain of the judge has become restricted. The fact that the time required for hearings is often not good is partly due to the fact that it is out of the hands of the judge. This directly affects judicial independence. The area of justice is also compromised where it is clear that there is not enough time and space for specialisation, for keeping track of knowledge in general and for innovative initiatives in the workplace. Due to the scaling up and the top-down system of decision-making, many professionals feel put out of play. In the meantime, we read in the evaluation of the HGK that the scale increase has been very limited, only very large organisations. Another fundamental question is: who determines the price of justice? Why is justice part of the Justice & Security budget? It is now treated as an executive department of the Ministry instead of an independent state power. We believe that a separate budget for justice is appropriate." I would like to bring that to the attention of the Minister once again, because here we are touching on the foundations of our rule of law, the trias politicians, and the independence of justice. It exists on paper, but in practice it is precisely through this approach and the financial deficits that there are in the legal process that we see that this is under serious pressure. Madam President. On the basis of the above, I believe that sufficient evidence has already been provided that the years of austerity have seriously affected the quality of justice. This means not only that this part of the trias politicians has been affected, but also that the justi tiators are no longer given the quality of justice to which they should be entitled. And that this also violates the right to a fair trial. There again lies the relationship between the cuts and the fair trial. It's fine on paper, but we see a practice that runs counter to that. But there's more going on with the Justice Department. In its response to my party's view that the government is in breach of the right of access to justice through the cuts in justice, the Minister states that the cabinet has not cut the case law, that even a substantial financial boost has been given to the introduction of professional standards, but that a state-wide efficiency task has been imposed. I note that by doing so, the government recognises that there is a return to cuts in justice. In addition, the Minister adds that the case law has indicated that it wants to achieve this goal, read austerity, with the help of "Justice and Innovation" and now comes the "Justice and Innovation" programme, in short KEI. According to the Minister, these revenues from KEI arise because fewer staff are needed and KEI aims to reduce the lead times and thereby contribute to the objective of justice within a reasonable period of time. But, Madam President, I am afraid that we are once again dealing with a textbook example of wishful thinking. For this I recalled the bad experiences of the judiciary with KEI. How bad KEI is and how serious problems are at KEI has been clearly expressed in the letter from the Central Works Council, the COR, of the Council for the case-law of 26 January last. In this letter, the COR mentions the progress report of December 2017. I assume that the Minister was familiar with the content of this progress report at the time of writing her response on 22 November. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that was the case. This progress report states that KEI will take much more time than was foreseen, that the costs of KEI will last longer and that the expected benefits of KEI will be realised later. The COR points out that the subsequent realisation of the benefits results in a financial deficit, that KEI's costs have also increased due to lower productivity and that this has a significant impact on the budget of the case-law. I refer further to what the COR said in its letter, namely that about 200 million has already been invested in KEI and that it is still not working. Can the Minister indicate what these very adverse financial consequences for KEI are for the cuts imposed on the case-law and the savings made by the Council on the KEI programme for the case-law? The Minister says that these cuts can be made, because KEI is going to work fine. But we see in practice that KEI is going to cost a lot of extra money. In my view, that is where big gaps remain, and justice is in great need. Finally, the question of access to justice. The Minister states in her reply...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u20	May I point out that you have 40 seconds left, Mr. Ruers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u21	I'm almost there, Madam President. In its reply, the Minister states that the level of the Registry Law may affect access to justice and that, therefore, the emphasis in the Government's proposals was on ensuring access to justice, especially for those with less financial capacity. In this context, I would like to point out that others have also said that the so-called e-Court, a phenomenon closely linked to the costs of the case-law and the level of the procedural law, is emerging. Last week, the judges of the Counter-Light Group noted first of all that the threshold for the citizen to the court is too high in their opinion because the registry rights, at least for canton cases, are too high. Secondly, they called for attention to be paid to legal aid. They have the impression that good legal assistance for the less well-off is becoming increasingly difficult to reach and that accessibility is a problem. The reduction in the number of canton locations has made the case law physically less accessible to the canton courts. They note that especially in areas where canton sites have been removed there are indications of higher absenteeism rates. I would like to hear whether the Minister shares those observations made by the judges. A similar development is mentioned in the so-called. e-courts, also described as a private digital collection agency, disguised as an arbitration institution. In particular, this is based on the fact that the high financial thresholds have made it unattractive for companies to go to court. As a result, there is room for alternatives, excluding citizens from the public courts. In addition, e-Court is an alternative, where there is insufficient hearing and hearing and the legal protection of citizens is undermined. I would like to know from the Minister how she views this development and whether she intends to take action. I look forward with interest to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. I give the floor to Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. It is an honour to speak on behalf of my group today on this proposal for a constitutional revision! "The proposal follows', the explanatory memorandum states. "the Lokin-Sassen c.s. motion adopted by the First Chamber. "Out." The motion bears my name and you will not fail to point out to me that it fills me with due pride. But honor who deserves credit: it has been Professor Tijn Kortmann who has convinced me of the need for constitutional anchoring of the right to a fair trial. At the time, I asked him for an opinion in preparation for the debate on the final report of the Thomassian State Commission; Kortmann was one of the members of this State Committee. I mention his name here with honor: without wanting to fail others, I would like to commemorate him here as one of the largest Dutch state lawyers of the last 50 years. And it is, above all, thanks to the support of all senators, the cum suis.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would also like to thank the government for the careful way in which it has prepared, explained and defended this proposal. Madam President. The current Article 17 Constitution: "No one can be held back from the judge who grants him the law against his will" is an old principle. The "ius de non evocando" literally: the right not to be declared, i.e.: to be subpoenaed in the Middle Ages was not so much a "right" as a "privilege," a privilegium not to appear before a foreign judge. This meant, for example, for the Reichskammergericht or the Grand Council of Mechelen, a prohibition to transfer a case pending before a lower court to itself as the supreme judge to take it off. Neither in the German countries nor in our regions has the aim of centralising the Habsburgs been achieved: in our case it was one of the main reasons for the rebellion against King Philips II. The privileges were abolished at the time of the French revolution and the ius de non evocando was incorporated into the State Order of 1798, through the French Constitution, in which the "privilege" was promoted to "right." The wording in the State Regulations of 1801, 1805 and 1806 was more limited, for it merely meant that no one could be condemned except "by the Judge granted him by the State Order or the Law." Since the Constitution of 1814 the formula: "No one can be deducted from the Regtér, which the law grants him," has been adopted unchanged in all subsequent constitutions to this day. Since the 1983 revision of the Constitution, this provision is contained in the first chapter of the Constitution. 17. Thorbecke stated at the time in his note on the Constitution that not only the executive power, the administration, but also the legislator himself must comply with this standard. In my opinion, nothing has changed. In my group's view, this applies not only to the current article but also to the paragraph 1 to be added to this proposal. This means that both the administration and the legislator must ensure that access to and the right to a fair trial is and remains for everyone within a reasonable period of time. We would like to hear from the government whether it agrees with our view. Madam President. The government has two criteria for a constitutional review. In her view, a proposal must have sufficient constitutional maturity and, secondly, an urgent need. As far as constitutional maturity is concerned, this proposal has a long incubation period, not to say elephant chord. Let me briefly repeat the steps that have been taken in the past. In 2004, the VAR Committee on Legal Protection already advocated the inclusion of a right of access to justice and effective legal protection in our Constitution. In 2009, Professor Barkhuysen c.s. a report which also concluded that that right was constitutionally anchored. The aforementioned State Constitutional Review Committee, the Thomasses State Commission, also unanimously advocated this in its final report of 11 November 2010. The Lokin-Sassen motion, adopted six years ago in this house, asked the same question. In 2013, the dissertation Constitution and fair trial was published by Mr Leeuw, who also advises on the incorporation into the Constitution of that law. The various organisations from the field, which received an opinion on the proposed legislative text on 8 July 2016, also welcomed the inclusion of the right to a fair trial in the Constitution and recognised the added value of the provision. Very recently, in January 2018, Mr.Manon Julicher published an article in the Magazine for Constitutional Law in which she also concludes that the introduction of the article can be of added value for an extension of the legal protection for the judge in the Netherlands. In short, it is clear that the proposal has reached sufficient constitutional maturity after fourteen years of discussion and debate. The second point is the urgent need. Everyone's right to a fair trial, including access to justice, is under threat at present, as has already been pointed out here. As far as foreign affairs is concerned, I refer briefly to the recent events in Turkey and in the EU country of Poland. Last Tuesday, the President of the Supreme Court also mentioned this at the expert meeting. Many other countries could be mentioned where justice has been restricted or even silenced. However, developments which make access to a fair trial more difficult and therefore a serious threat, not to say undermining the independence and impartiality of justice and the legal protection of citizens, lead to excessive registry rights, the removal of courts or canton courts, thereby reducing physical accessibility and significantly increasing the number of absenteeism sentences, and substantial cuts in the funding of justice, thereby jeopardising its quality, substantial cuts in legal aid, which means that lower incomes and even middle income, not only citizens but also businesses, can no longer bear the cost of a trial. Almost all courts are suffering from a shortage of human resources, all have submitted a negative budget and complaints about excessive workload and regular burn-outs among judges persist. The review report of the Justice Card Review Act of December 2017 confirms that this major operation has not yet led to better and more efficient case law, that there is still a great deal of dissatisfaction, both in the courts and in the prosecutor's office, and that complex situations and problems are still far from being resolved. I would like to say nothing about the introduction of the KEI and the additional work and the problems involved, without adequate financial compensation from the public authorities. All these developments mean that citizens are looking for alternatives, such as mediation, arbitrators and E-court, as has already been pointed out. OM and administration have been given increasing powers of settlement and decision-making without judicial intervention, the conclusion of deals and/or the imposition of administrative fines. That seems good, because it relieves the judiciary and it can also lead to a swift resolution of conflicts, but it can also lead to arbitrariness; see the report Available and weighed from the pg at the Supreme Court, Mr Coconuts, from 2014. In tax and foreign law, too, the judge can be seen to be put at a distance, increasing the possibilities of arbitrariness. Madam President. With this not exhaustive list, I hope my group has sufficiently demonstrated the need for the legislative proposal before us. It is of the utmost importance that an independent and impartial judge protects citizens from possible arbitrariness, whether from other citizens, powerful civil society organisations, public administration or the public prosecutor. Mr Feteris, President of the High Council of the Netherlands, also pointed out these dangers at the expert meeting on the state of the rule of law in this house last Tuesday. To say it with the words of Mrs Creutzberg, senior judge of the Central Netherlands court, last Tuesday at the expert meeting: "Independent, accessible, high-quality justice is not self-evident. Its importance is great: it is a prerequisite for all social and economic processes to be conducted properly and fairly." That is exactly what the present legislative proposal is intended to guarantee constitutionally. In itself, it is already a sign that this right must be enshrined in the Constitution: it would not be necessary to codify natural things. The judiciary is the beating heart of a healthy democratic rule of law. He is the bearing pillar on which a stable society is built, for he prevents arbitrariness and power lust. The quality of the judiciary makes it possible to measure the level of civilisation of a people. What the dikes are for the territory is an independent judiciary for the good of the nation, accessible to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u24	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u25	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 34517, which states that there is reason to consider a proposal to amend the Constitution to include a provision on the right to a fair trial. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the first time that I have been allowed to debate in this Chamber as Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, and that is, of course, an honour and a privilege. That's what I wanted to say in advance. I would also like to thank all the speakers very much in advance for their input. We are talking about an important issue: the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. Many of you also supported Mrs Lokin-Sassen, and I would like to join in that. I think it is good to remind you, but I will say a little more about it later, that it did indeed start with a motion, which was based on the Constitutional Commission, so there is indeed a somewhat longer history and also a future, because we are not there after today. I have heard you all put your own accents, but I must, of course, speak through the President. I have heard the speakers put their own accents. This varied from the biblical context to the examples from legal practice. I have also heard very well that many have said that it is logical that this issue should be part of our Constitution, and I would therefore like to deal with that later. That Constitution is, of course, an important document in the Netherlands, a document we are proud of, a living document, with a vital function in our democratic rule of law. Mr Engels also referred to this in his speech. That is why the government agreement stresses that this Constitution needs to be maintained, that we must share it and pass it on to each other and to newcomers in the Netherlands. I also think that today's debate is part of that discussion. The importance of this has to do with the role of the Constitution in our state system. I would like to say a few words about this, and I would like to appeal to the way in which this has been discussed in the past. I refer to the institutional-organic guarantee function and the legal-normative function of the Constitution, as summarised in the cabinet response to the opinion of the 2010 Constitutional Commission, referring to various typologies of the Constitution by state scholars and committees over the years. The Constitution lays down rules to ensure and promote the freedom and well-being of citizens. The Constitution provides rules for the exercise of public power. To this end, he shall establish the most important public posts, confer powers on them and regulate relations between posts and posts and citizens. The Constitution actually reflects historical achievements and reflects the continuity of the state system. It is therefore the legal foundation of the Netherlands. This debate is also so important, and that is why I have been looking forward to it, I will confess to you, because the First Chamber had an important part to play in the drafting of the legislative proposal before us. I have just mentioned Mrs Lokin-Sassen's motion cum suis, as she herself said, which laid the foundations for this. It was adopted unanimously and at that time the government re-examined and decided to submit a legislative proposal. What I also liked was that Mrs Lokin-Sassen himself honored Professor Kortmann, indeed a prominent state law scholar, who died in 2016, and a member of the State Committee. I liked that she said that and I very much like to join. This ultimately led to this proposal, which is being discussed here today at first reading. Moreover, next week there will be another important debate in this Chamber, but on the general provision. Of course, I do not want to anticipate that. The right to a fair trial by an independent and impartial judge is one of the foundations of the democratic rule of law, because without a fair trial other rights cannot be guaranteed. After all, it is the judge who can decide on disputes between citizens or between citizens and the government. In criminal proceedings, too, a fair trial, in which the defendant is entitled to certain rights, such as the assistance of a lawyer, is of great importance. No one doubts that, and yet our Constitution currently has no explicit and general right to a fair trial. This proposal establishes a general right to a fair trial in Article 17 of the Constitution. In addition to the existing provision, which states that no one can be withheld from the rights conferred on him by the law, it shall state that, when determining their rights and obligations and determining the merits of an action brought against them, everyone shall have the right to a fair trial before an independent and impartial judge within a reasonable period of time. This new constitutional law will also apply to those disputes not covered by the protection of Treaty provisions, such as Article 6 ECHR and Article 47 of the European Fundamental Rights Charter. These are disputes about the admission and expulsion of foreign nationals, parts of civil service law and tax disputes, as mentioned here this evening. This draft Constitution is therefore intended to complement these Treaty provisions and has a wider scope. That is also the added value that some people have been asking for this afternoon. It is important to stress that even in ordinary law, even in those cases, access to justice already exists and the guarantees of a fair trial are respected. This, however, is not constitutionally guaranteed. Although the right to a fair trial is firmly enshrined in Dutch law and practice, explicit inclusion of this fundamental right in the Constitution is important, all the more so because the right to a fair trial, as has been said, has a link in the protection of other fundamental rights. Explicit law that is so fundamental to the rule of law can also contribute to citizens' trust in the rule of law and trust in justice in particular. Mr. Engels asked for that. I'm going to go a little bit more into specific questions, so I'll come back to that. The proposed fundamental right has not only symbolic value, but also normative value. The legislator will have to review new legislation in the field of procedural law or existing legislation proposing amendments to the constitutional provision. The same applies to the legal aid proposals requested by Mr Lintmeijer. Furthermore, the provision has been formulated as a subjective right of a citizen, i.e. that he can directly invoke this right before the national courts. Perhaps it would be a good idea to discuss the placement that Mr Engels asked for. Why not in chapter six? Chapter 6 regulates the organisation of the rule of law. It is true that this also affects this bill, but I consider that interface to be smaller than that of Chapter 1. Chapter 1 of the Constitution contains fundamental rights. The right to a fair trial has also been formulated, as I have just said, as a fundamental subjective right and is thus complementary to the current Article 17. The place in Chapter 1 is in line with the other fundamental rights contained therein, which lay down elements of the right to a fair trial and access to justice. These are Article 15 (2), the right of access to a court in the event of deprivation of liberty, Article 16, the principle of criminal legality, current Articles 17 and 18, the right to judicial assistance. In the consultation, several bodies, including the Advisory Section of the Council of State, responded positively to the position of the provision in Chapter 1. The right of access to justice is inherent in the right to a fair trial. This follows from European case law, in fact since the 1980s, and that is the starting point of this legislative proposal. However, access to justice is not an absolute right. It is possible to make access to justice subject to conditions of a procedural nature, such as the levying of registry duties or the first recourse to an appeal procedure, provided that the essence of the right is not affected. Mrs Lokin-Sassen laid another relationship with the existing ius de non evocando and Thorbecke's lecture. She asked whether the legislator himself is bound to the standard with this new paragraph. I can answer that question positively. If the legislator has not provided for a judicial procedure but the dispute falls within the scope of the new right to a fair trial, the citizen must be able to bring it before a court. This obliges the legislator, therefore also to provide for a course of justice. If the legislator has failed to do so, the court itself can maintain that guarantee, directly on the basis of the Constitution. The cabinet has chosen to include the main general notions of a fair trial in Article 17 of the Constitution. These are the independence and impartiality of the judge and the trial within a reasonable time. These notes apply to all types of legal proceedings and to all jurisdictions. The new provision does not exhaustively list all the elements and sub-rights of a fair trial, mainly because this does not reflect the sober nature of the Constitution. The style of most of the constitutional provisions is general and fundamental, given their nature. Detailed elaboration of the right to a fair trial does not fit in well with that constitutional tradition and is not necessary to guarantee this right in all its facets. The principle of hearing and hearing can be protected under the general heading of a fair trial. It is the term "fair" in the provision that provides the link for the protection of such concrete elements in a given context. After explaining the legislative proposal in this way, I would like to answer a number of specific questions raised this afternoon. I do that in the order of the speakers. So I hope you'll forgive me if it seems like the themes are getting a little mixed up. Mr Engels asked why the cabinet's reasoning is that this provision contributes to confidence. The fact that the law is visible in our Constitution contributes to confidence. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, research shows that citizens' trust in the rule of law is partly based on the belief that fundamental rights are constitutionally anchored and that the independent role of the judge is visible. Mr Engels asked why the rights of the defence in criminal proceedings, such as the right to hear and hear, were not included in the Constitution. It was chosen not to include an exhaustive list of all elements of the right to a fair trial in the Constitution because it does not fit in with the sober nature of the Constitution, because most of the constitutional provisions, including fundamental rights, are general and fundamental and because a detailed interpretation of the right to a fair trial does not fit in with that constitutional tradition. As has just been said, it is also not necessary because the term "fair" can protect general characteristics. Various elements of a fair trial can be further elaborated in procedural law, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure and the General Administrative Law Act. The judge can also indicate this in his case law. So a balance has actually been struck between an open formulation and a more detailed formulation, which seems to us to be an adequate balance. In our view, case-law and parliamentary documents provide sufficient context for a good understanding. Mr Schalk asked whether the government intended to include the right to life in the Constitution. My predecessor, then Minister Plasterk, has already said a few things about this in the House of Representatives. Let me summarize this briefly. He referred to the state committee. There was no consensus within the State Committee on the inclusion of the right to life. Nor did the First Chamber ask the government to consider this in full detail during the debate on the cabinet response to the opinion of the State Committee. So, like my predecessor, I see no reason to reconsider that position on that point. So that's not a proposal that's on the table right now. The Cabinet therefore sees no need to do so, also referring to the criteria for amending the Constitution, namely the urgent need for society and the sufficient constitutional maturity. Moreover, it is not necessary to adopt one-to-one ECHR provisions. It must have added value in relation to Treaty law. We believe that this is the case with Article 17 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u27	The right to a fair trial was already in the ECHR, and that is what we said in the Constitution. By analogy, perhaps that is the reason why the state committee actually said five to five: it has to or should not be able to say that it is therefore open to discussion. We have a new government. Then Minister Plasterk is doing other things now. We have a new minister. Perhaps you can reconsider, especially when you say that our Constitution needs maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u28	Yes, we agree on that last point. I have mentioned a number of criteria or arguments by which you will review a proposal for a constitutional change. You referred to one option, namely the ECHR and inclusion in the Constitution. I have also said that this cabinet agrees with any constitutional amendment to the criteria for amending the Constitution, i.e. urgent social need and sufficient constitutional maturity. This in addition to the arguments used by my predecessor, namely that there was no consensus within the State Committee and that no such implementation was requested by a motion or otherwise by the Chamber. All this makes my position in this respect the same as that of my predecessor. Several spokesmen have asked what this proposal actually adds to international treaties. The proposed constitutional provision will have a wider scope of application than the Treaty provision, as all legal disputes will be dealt with. There are no jurisdictions except for the proposed constitutional provision. Article 17 of the Constitution and the Treaty provisions will each have their own meaning which complements each other, with citizens always being able to rely on the highest level of protection. Citizens can also find the standard of a fair trial, if the proposal is adopted, directly in the Constitution as their own standard. Anchorage in the Constitution of the importance which the Netherlands attaches to good and fair justice can contribute to confidence in that justice. Fortunately, this confidence is high in the Netherlands, according to the Justice Scoreboard 2017 released by the European Commission. That is beautiful and of course we would like to keep it that way. Next, I will address questions from the VVD and GroenLinks on the relationship with Article 120 of the Constitution. These questions were essentially related to the usefulness of including the right to a fair trial if the judge is not allowed to review it, given Article 120 of the Constitution. The judge can check against the proposed law. He can always check lower regulations against the law. Secondly, the court may take it into account in legal practice, for example when assessing whether a reasonable period of time should be exceeded in criminal proceedings. In addition to the judge-in-law, which is important, the legislator can assess the right to a fair trial. The role of the legislator in the ex ante fundamental rights test has already been explained in a letter under the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u29	I understand that review by the legislator; I certainly think that is a pre of this bill. In your example, I would like to go back to the Rules of Procedure. You say that a citizen can then directly invoke the subjective right of the Constitution, the right to a fair trial. But how is that judge going to assess the level of registry rights against the criterion of a fair trial if it is laid down in formal legislation that he is not then allowed to review under the Constitution? That seems to me to be a very difficult dilemma for a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u30	That also seems to me to be a difficult dilemma for the judge. The question is whether it is necessary for him to be able to take that test in such a specific case. I don't think this is necessary in practice. The judge is limited in his options. He may be able to check low regulation against the law and the Constitution, but he cannot carry out a constitutional review at the same time. Mrs Duthler just mentioned an example. I do not think that is necessary for that either. In fact, I shall be speaking later on about a number of questions that you have asked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u31	However, the level of registry fees is explicitly laid down in formal legislation. This has been the subject of a wide-ranging debate with several ministers for many years, including in this Chamber. I'm gonna stick to the example. I do not think that the proposed constitutional provision will be very helpful to a citizen on this particular issue, but I would also like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u32	If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that later. Then I'll take that question with me. I will stick to the review and Article 120, in particular the questions on the lifting of the ban on testing. A few questions have also been asked about this. Everyone is familiar with the fact that a lifting of the prohibition of scrutiny would require a constitutional change, that an initiative proposal has been in the Lower House for a long time now. However, as everyone knows, the Van Tongeren proposal, as it is now called, should, in the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State of 29 September last, be deemed to have expired. It is up to the House of Representatives to decide whether to take that decision. It is a proposal that is already at second reading. A change to the proposal is therefore no longer possible. I wanted to leave it at that, but I see there's an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u33	The Minister states that she does not really want to comment on the government's attitude to whether or not to lift the prohibition of scrutiny. The question from the VVD Group was: does the government assume that the lifting of the ban will come about? But how does the government appreciate the effects of this bill, of this provision, if that prohibition of scrutiny is not lifted? For the sake of clarity, my group was against lifting that ban at the time. It is precisely for this reason that my group has doubts, and she wonders: what is the point of this provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u34	I understand that point very well. I actually said two things. Firstly, there is a ban on testing. The proposal for an own-initiative report, which ensures that this is lifted, is still and we know the opinion of the Council of State. The previous cabinet, but that also applies to this cabinet, argued that even with the prohibition of scrutiny, the constitutional change that is now before us has added value. In general terms, I would not like to make any further comments on the prohibition of checks or the lifting of checks. We also know that a new state committee, in this case the State Committee on Parliamentary System, is at work and we await the outcome of that. However, in answer to the question: we see no objection and no obstacle to this constitutional change related to the existing prohibition of scrutiny, because firstly, there will be review for the legislator anyway and secondly, there are sufficient other approaches in practice and we do not think that constitutional review is necessarily necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u35	We are now having a bit of a discussion about the scope of this bill. What strikes me is that the Minister said in her reply that there is a wider scope, including in relation to Article 6 of the ECHR. My question is, in fact, the following. The explanatory memorandum expressly states that it also covers disputes relating to the admission and expulsion of foreign nationals. Could the Minister perhaps indicate what impact can be expected on procedures and also on any further accumulation of proceedings, which could lead to longer expulsion procedures and how this relates to the foreign policy of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u36	I can confirm that foreign law is also included, as is tax law and civil service law. The question is asked as to what effect this has in practice. That is a question I do not really want to answer here, because it has no direct impact on policy practice. Then you and my colleague Harbers should have the debate on his intentions. I therefore agree that it is included and I would suggest that the debate on the practical questions should take place with my colleague Secretary of State Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u37	I'd like to have that discussion with him, possibly next week. The proposal is now before us, but there is no assessment as to whether this wider scope will also allow for procedures in a state-law sense, irrespective of policy. Can it extend procedures in a state-of-the-art sense by strengthening the basis for appeal and appeal? That is actually more the underlying question in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u38	If it is all right with you, I will return to that in the second term. Then perhaps I can give you a more precise answer. Mr. Chairman. I want to continue with the answer. There are still a number of questions from Mr Lintmeijer van GroenLinks. He asked: can the right to legal aid be assessed in the light of the new constitutional article? Of course, new legislation must comply with the Constitution. This also applies to legal aid legislation in so far as it affects the right of access to justice. And then Article 17 comes into the picture. However, this does not change the current situation, just because the new Article 17 contains the same standards as Article 6 of the ECHR as regards access to justice. We must also note that the right to legal aid is already directly enshrined in Article 18 of the Constitution. That is not, therefore, a new right which can suddenly be derived from Article 17. A number of speakers, Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Sini of the PvdA, asked about the added value in practice, the actual effect, for ensuring access to justice. I have already argued that in practice, fortunately, there is already a fair trial in all legal disputes. There has to be, but there is. However, the explicability of this right in the Constitution allows for its own national interpretation. Both the legislator and the judge are given a handle. Mr Sini also asked whether this new fundamental right applies to the district court. The answer to this question is yes. The district court, as it takes shape in the intentions of the Ministry of Justice and the Court of Justice, is also a public judge. That fundamental right will therefore also apply in full to the proceedings before that court. Mr Sini referred to protesting lawyers. I think he also mentioned the report of the Van der Meer Committee. That was also about whether lawyers earn too little to be able to provide the legal aid needed for a fair trial. Now I come to an issue on which my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, is concerned. I'll tell you that a few times. I would therefore like to reply briefly, but at the same time say that you will undoubtedly have other moments to discuss this with Mr Dekker. The government agreement agreed that the system of subsidised legal aid should be reviewed along the lines of the report of the Wolfsen Committee and the Van der Meer Committee within the current budgetary frameworks. Minister Dekker sent Parliament a letter on this matter at the end of last year. In that letter, he described how he would carry out that assignment. That letter states that the Minister will inform the Chamber by the summer of this year how he will review the system of subsidised legal aid. Mr Ruers of the SP spoke about effective legal protection and asked why it was not included in Article 17 of the Constitution. The government believes that a fair trial also means an effective and effective judicial process, even if it is not explicitly stated in Article 17 of the Constitution. The right to an effective remedy is interpreted in international law in such a way that there should actually be an effective remedy, not just in theory. This means that the remedy must be accessible, effective and effective. In that respect, I simply agree with Mr Ruers. Effective justice is an essential condition for the exercise of the legal right to a fair trial in practice. Another question from Mr Ruers concerned investigations into criminal decisions and tried opposition, i.e. decisions taken by the Public Prosecutor. I thought that was what Mrs Lokin was saying. These studies have produced a number of findings and recommendations. They're very valuable in our eyes. These are at the heart of an improvement programme that the D.A. had already started following a report published in 2015. The improvement programme aims, among other things, to improve guidance on lead times and on the higher quality of the files. At present, the prosecution is carrying out a measurement which will clarify the extent to which these measures are effective. Minister Dekker will inform your Chamber before the summer of this year. Mr Ruers asked: does a fair trial include access to justice? The answer to that is yes. The right of access to justice is inherent in the right to a fair trial. As I have just argued, the Constitution gives the right to access to justice in all disputes governed by law. A number of questions from Mr Ruers of the SP in particular, but also from Mrs Lokin-Sassen of the CDA and Mr Sini of the Labour Party are very much in the area of my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection. I do not want to make it any less important for this debate, because I fully understand that these questions have been asked. I also think they are relevant, but I do not think that I should sit here entirely on my colleague's chair when it comes to the functioning of justice, the way in which the judiciary operates and the cuts. KEI was also mentioned a few times. These are subjects for which Mr Dekker bears the primary responsibility. I am therefore somewhat reluctant to do so. I do not want to answer the questions in detail from his portfolio. But I know that there is a debate ahead, namely the policy debate on the state of the rule of law. Some of you have already referred to that. That policy debate will include the position of the judiciary within the trias politician, which has just been mentioned here. You can, of course, count on me to ensure that Minister Dekker takes good note of what you have mentioned here this afternoon and that he can therefore involve this in his preparation for the debate he will have with you. I believe that the exact date has yet to be fixed, but the debate is likely to be held as early as May. I hope you will not disappoint me if I pass on some of these questions to Mr Dekker, who can go more deeply with you. I'm gonna come up with a few things that I know are important to you. Mr Ruers spoke of e-Court. It was also mentioned by others. Is that a barrier to access to justice? Some of you are worried about that. Also following reports in various media, my colleague Minister Dekker has promised a letter to the House of Representatives. So that letter's coming up. By the way, written questions have also been asked about e-Court by members of the SP and D66 across the street. Minister Dekker intends to send that written response this month. So he'll be here soon. I still have a few loose ends. Maybe I can come back to the question about the registry rights that Mrs Duthler has just asked. In this example, the judge is not in a position to assess the Constitution. In this respect, therefore, the added value is not at that moment itself, but at the preceding moment, namely the review by the legislator. Maybe that's the real answer to the question. Once it is done in practice, that test cannot be done, but before that, at the time of the adoption of the law, it must be done. I can answer the PVV's question now anyway. That might save time in the second term. If it is settled later on with regard to a fair trial and foreign law is included, is something actually changing? The answer to that is no. At first instance, the administrative chambers of the courts are competent under the General Administrative Law Act and Chapter 7 of the Foreigner's Act. On appeal, the Administrative Court Division of the Council of State has jurisdiction. It follows from case law that legal disputes must be resolved within a reasonable period of time. The effects in practice are therefore not great, because there is already a right to a fair trial in foreign affairs on the basis of ordinary law. This does not, in practice, lead to additional or longer procedures. Finally. Perhaps it is good to say that we would only want to bring this proposal forward if there is also constitutional maturity, as has just been argued. I would hope that we all agree that the time has come for us to believe that this constitutional maturity is there. In any case, I fully agree with that. I hope that with the answer to these questions and, of course, after answering any supplementary questions in the second period, we will be able to draw that conclusion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u39	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make up for a first-term omission in the direction of Mrs Lokin, because she must be convinced that all the members of my group would like to congratulate her warmly on the results achieved so far. On a personal note, I also have my own memories of Professor Kortmann. Mrs Lokin can also be assured of the political support of my group. Now I have to move on. I thank the Minister for the clear answer. I'll briefly mark two things. My group fully endorses the great significance of the Constitution in politics and in society. My group also supports the need for regular interviews, although I understand that we are not taking any major steps in relation to the work of the State Committee on Parliamentary System today. So we can understand that. For the rest, I was completely satisfied with the answer. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I too have a failure to make amends to Mrs Lokin-Sassen. I do. She said very nicely that it was "cum suis." Under the same motion was the signature of my predecessor, Mr Holdijk. I was very pleased; you will understand that. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister for his clear answer. I have only asked you a few questions, particularly in the context of the fact that we will meet again next week. Then we are talking about the general provision. You have indicated that there are criteria that we must apply for the moment of entry into or implementation of things in the Constitution. There is one question that still lingers with me: what can you do to bring something to constitutional maturity? I think that's an interesting question. I don't know if there's any answer to that today, but I'm just gonna put it to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u43	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u44	Thank you, Madam President. The VVD Group also thanks the Minister for her first-term replies. My group has asked questions about, among other things, the effects of the legislative proposal. The Minister said that Article 17 offers a subjective right that citizens can directly invoke. In the context of the constitutional prohibition of review, I would like to ask whether the Minister can give examples of lower regulation that a judge can assess when it comes to the right to a fair trial and, more specifically, the right of access to justice. The VVD Group sees the inclusion of the right to a fair trial as an additional incentive to take the task of the First Chamber to review laws for constitutionality even more seriously. With this bill, the right to a fair trial is explicitly part of the Dutch constitution and no longer only indirectly through European and international treaties. My group welcomes this. I will therefore give a positive advice to my group to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u45	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u46	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much for your reply. I am pleased, also for the history of law, as we say so beautifully here, that she has once again made the normative nature of this amendment and has also pointed out that it is a subjective right that is directly applicable to citizens when they consider it necessary in their legal protection. The issue of the right to legal aid is still a little lingering. I conclude from the Minister's words that Article 47 of the European Charter is perhaps the most appropriate, if you would have to rely on it. Perhaps this is also one of the elements on which we can reflect a little further in the debate on the state of the rule of law. As far as I am concerned, the answer and the tone in the answer are greatly appreciated. I will strongly advise my group to vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u47	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks also to the Minister for the clear answer to our questions. Thanks also for stressing today that access to justice is inherent in the right to a fair trial. Thank you also for the commitment to pass on our questions on access to justice to Minister Dekker for low-income people in particular. I will also advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u49	Thank you, Mr. Sini. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for her explanation and for her answers to the various questions. I do understand that there are a number of things that are better placed with her colleague Dekker, so we will undoubtedly soon be discussing them with that ruler. I have another problem, which I would like to put to the Minister. In my view, we have an improvement in the Constitution here. It is very nice that this proposal is likely to become law. We're all in favour of it. But you can see that there is a tension field. We get a nice provision in the Constitution about the fair trial, access to justice and so on. At the same time, you can see in practice that the system is in fact stalling, as the judges themselves tell us. Citizens will no longer be given access to justice by the High Registry Rights. E-Court is no longer a case law, but is used as such. The judiciary sees major problems: they have fewer and fewer people, they cannot train people, procedures are delayed or run for far too long. A lot of civilians can't afford a lawyer anymore. I see tension between that wonderful provision in law and practice. You would almost say: should judges go to trial against the Minister of Justice to get enough budget? That's about the tension field we're in. If you, as a legislator yourself, say that that fair process must be there, but does not meet the conditions for achieving that fair process, then I think that there is a task for the government to ensure that all the facilities are provided to achieve that fair process. That tension field hasn't been solved with your answers. Perhaps I should discuss it with your colleague, Mr Dekker, but I do see a major problem here. When I hear 'we're going to deal with it again, but it stays within the same financial framework, within the same standards', I say that it doesn't work. Then butter must be given to the fish by the legislator and, in particular, by the government, otherwise it will remain a dead letter. That would be a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. I give the floor to Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. She mentioned a letter from Minister Dekker about e-Court. Could the First Chamber also possibly obtain a copy of this? Madam President. If it is possible, I would like to address myself over your head to the PVV colleague, who did not participate in the debate. I have seen that the PVV in the Lower House voted against this bill. At the time, the PVV did vote in favour of my motion and the legislative proposal is the result of that. I see an almost universal acceptance of the bill. Of course, it would be very nice if the PVV in this Chamber would also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u53	I have to say that I have little desire to start a debate on this subject between Mrs Lokin and Mr Van Hattem, but I am okay with one interruption. Then it's on your head, Mrs. Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u54	I would like to respond briefly to that. At that time, my predecessors in the First Chamber indicated that the political primacy for the final consideration of these legislative proposals lies on the other side, at the Lower House as a direct parliament, and that the consideration should also be given to how this bill should be dealt with. That's where they chose to vote against the bill. We will make our assessment here next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u55	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u56	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. I ask the Minister if she has the opportunity to reply directly. She nods, so that's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u57	Thank you, Mr President, for answering a few more questions and perhaps making a final remark. Very practically, Mrs Lokin just asked to inform Mr Dekker that you too would like to receive the letter on e-Court. Of course I can do that. Of course, I'll take care of that. Quite specifically, Mrs Duthler asked: can you give an example that there is still room for this review in lower legislation? I also agree with her that much has been regulated in legislation. An example is the courts' seat. That is a general measure of governance. If a proposal were to be made for its abolition, it would be possible to review it. I hope that with this example I have illustrated a little better that this possibility is indeed being offered. The last specific question was that of Mr Ruers, but it was perhaps more of a sigh on his part. It is, of course, nice to improve the Constitution on this point; I thought that was its wording. But if it gets stuck in practice, what good is it for people? It is the responsibility of the government, that is, of us and of the Minister for Legal Protection in particular, to ensure that this does not happen. I fully agree with Mr Ruers: it must not be stalled, it must also be continuously maintained. We have talked about maintenance of the Constitution, but, of course, there must also be normal maintenance of the practice. I see and recognize that tension field. By the way, the proposal was co-signed by the Minister for Legal Protection, so I assume that you will have that debate with him and also discuss this issue with him. There was one more question, that of Mr Schalk on constitutional maturity. That is a difficult question, because there is not a list that you can tick to tell whether or not it is constitutionally ripe. I think that it will often be on subjects that start with, for example, a social debate, on which, as in this case, a state committee has also been founded and which slowly but surely translates into a wish or an initiative for such a constitutional change. Constitutional changes are carefully made in the Netherlands, in two stages, in the first and second readings. So there are many times when we, and ultimately the constitutionalist, judge whether or not that constitutional maturity is there. I believe that in this case we can say that we believe that there is, but I realise that this is a difficult issue and that we only have our common judgment to know for sure. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions now. I would like to thank everyone for the input and I would like to leave it at that for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-eerstekamer-10.u59	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
