ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34775-VI on the adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Justice and Security for the year 2018. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV aims to control and control our own Dutch borders. The Rutte III cabinet, on the other hand, says in its coalition agreement that it wants a 'full European asylum policy'. That's a crucial difference. The cabinet wants Brussels Eurocrats to decide who we should admit to our country, because we can only, so to speak, deal with the big issue of migration together. However, by leaving it to the EU, our country will only have to adopt more mass immigration, with a European migration agenda that will not stop the influx, but will only regulate and facilitate. In other words, the EU wants to allow, collect and redistribute asylum migrants in a structural manner, with the Netherlands at the front to receive. Mr. Chairman. Some quotes. "One asylum policy remains unachievable in Europe." "This summit threatens to sink in fine words without concrete measures." "Significant of differences is the number of asylum seekers to be processed by the Member States." "The Netherlands has been burdened with disproportionate burdens for years." "Lands with very few asylum seekers have no interest in cooperation. This means that they will inevitably get more asylum seekers in." "Italy with its long external borders allows incoming refugees to travel north without too much nuisance. This has been agreed in the framework of the Dublin Agreements, but they are working badly in practice." These quotes could literally come from the newspapers of the last two years, but they come from an article in De Telegraaf of 14 October 1999 about an EU summit in Tampere, Finland. Almost 20 years later, EU cooperation has not yet achieved any results in terms of effectively tackling asylum influx. On the contrary, the open borders have allowed asylum invasion to take an even greater flight. Despite 20 years of muddling, this cabinet is still dreaming of a "full European asylum policy." In replying to our questions on the JHA Council of 6 and 7 July 2017, on 12 January 2017, this Secretary of State indicated that under the Estonian EU Presidency, there was talk of embedding the concept of "effective solidarity" but that less progress was made on this issue in the cabinet than was hoped. But he also said that the leadership agenda of the President of the European Council did put a point on the horizon by seeking consensus by June 2018 at the latest. In short, the same empty EU dreams as in the past 20 years. The question to the Secretary of State is when this cabinet will realize that this is not a dream, but a nightmare. Why continue to hold on to this failed approach at EU level for many years? What specific expectations does the Secretary of State have in the context of feasibility, an aspect specifically examined by the First Chamber, apart from the agreements on resettlement which the Netherlands is faced with? Moreover, we would like to hear an answer from the Secretary of State to our question which he left unanswered in the answer to the written questions mentioned above. Can you indicate how much effective solidarity the Dutch government has with its own people, who are being presented with the burden and bill of this mass immigration? Many Eastern European countries, such as Hungary, have now woken up and realise that combating asylum invasion, and thus preserving their own culture and freedom, requires monitoring and managing their own borders. As far as PVV is concerned, it does not have to take another 20 years to follow this example, and we are now closing all our borders for mass immigration. Mr. Chairman. Then Dublin transfers to Greece. The Secretary of State stated on 30 October 2017 in his reply to our written questions on the JHA Council of 27 and 28 March 2017 that the Netherlands has not yet transferred any persons to Greece. Can the Secretary of State state state whether it is now clearer when these Dublin transfers will be resumed? The Secretary of State also indicated that the IND will assess whether the foreigner is "vulnerable" per case. The European Commission has not defined "vulnerable persons," but they are currently excluded from transfer. Has an assessment framework been established for this? And if so, is this a different assessment framework than the UNHCR criteria for'most vulnerable persons', to which the Secretary of State refers in his reply of 22 January last of our questions on the implementation of the European Agenda on Migration? Can the Secretary of State make it clear whether so-called vulnerable foreigners will eventually be transferred under the Dublin Regulation? I'd like a response. In answering questions about this budget from the Lower House, the Cabinet discusses the action programme of the Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework, CRRF, of the United Nations, with a so-called new framework for dealing with the reception and integration of refugees. Can the Secretary of State state state what is the government's approach to this action programme? To what extent does the Cabinet intend to settle here? And what effects can this have on Dutch policy? In addition, with regard to the European Agenda on Migration, the Cabinet talks about "maintaining manageable" migration flows. Can the Secretary of State quantify when this migration flow is actually manageable? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is in line with the EU to facilitate regulated migration. In practice, this also means the structural facilitation of asylum invasion with the permanent maintenance of reception capacity. According to media reports, the IND's housing plans would leave three major asylum centres in Gilze, Budel and Ter Apel by 2022 at the latest. These are so-called joint alien sites or GVL. Can the Secretary of State give details of this report and indicate how these plans relate to the government's intention to accommodate asylum seekers with a high chance of asylum status in smaller locations near the municipality where they will eventually be housed? Will there be investments in large asylum centres as well as in many smaller reception centres? In addition, how will it be determined in advance in which municipality an asylum seeker will be housed? I'd like a response. At the Gilze site there would be an investment of EUR 40 million for a renovation to eventually accommodate 1,200 asylum seekers. For the location in Budel, this State Secretary has concluded an administrative agreement with the municipality of Cranendonck for the establishment of up to 1,500 asylum seekers in the next 15 years. Do these agreements and investments mean that mass immigration will not be reduced, but will only be further structurally facilitated? The management agreement of the site in Budel includes the following in terms of employment: "The COA promotes that the services and products necessary for carrying out the activities covered by its care are purchased as far as possible from the municipality and the region, insofar as the procurement rules allow and insofar as they are not already contracted by the COA or in service of the COA. The COA will make an effort to reduce 20% of the work to be carried out from local and regional entrepreneurs." Can the Secretary of State indicate how this intention relates to the reply of 6 November last to our written questions on the amendment of the J and V budget states concerning the purchase by the COA of luxury products, such as Miele washing machines and meat from the judge, for asylum seekers' centres? The Secretary of State indicated that procurement at the COA is carried out through European procurement pathways and that there are man-made contracts for washing machines and meat products with parties awarded through an EU procurement process. Are the inhabitants and entrepreneurs of Cranendonck not happy with a dead sparrow in view of these existing agreements and European procurement? Moreover, is the Secretary of State prepared to stop purchasing these luxury products for asylum centres, products that are priceless for many ordinary Dutch people? I'd like a response. The Secretary of State visited the Budel site on 8 February to sign the administrative agreement with the municipal administration. From the local community, I have received signals that residents of the azc are not sufficiently informed. The new administrative agreement, with an extension to a maximum of 1,500 persons for 15 years, has not been actively communicated to them. There is no information evening organized and the residents are not made clear how many people are currently staying in the azc. In the meantime, they are experiencing the nuisance of asylum seekers, such as groups that are noisy in the middle of the road and throwing garbage on the street. When they complain to the COA about this intimidating atmosphere, temporary measures are taken, but some time later the nuisance starts again. This is what they get for 15 years in front of their front door over and over again. The administrative agreement also talks about possible planning damage for residents. The question is whether they can be eligible at all, now that the azc is located in Budel with a temporary exemption on the zoning plan. Did the Secretary of State discuss these matters with the municipal administration and the COA when signing the administrative agreement? Has it only looked at the importance of the asylum industry and its own inhabitants remain in the cold? I'd like a response. Furthermore, I have a question in a more general sense. Trouble for neighbors of an azc doesn't come back in crime rates. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent figures are being kept of nuisances around azc's that are not reported or can be reported? Mr. Chairman. The continuation of the asylum invasion, with or without European agreements, will in any case be at the expense of ordinary Dutch people, who will have to wait longer for a social rental home, who will have to pay expensive health insurance and who will be able to pay their hard-earned tax money to status holders who are in large numbers in the assistance. The return is very limited. This cabinet also continues to facilitate bed, bath and bread for processed asylum seekers. In addition, many status holders with temporary residence status will be granted an indefinite status after five years. For the group of Syrians who have come to our country massively in recent years, now is the time to return and rebuild their country. Syria is in principle safe enough by now. Last June, the UNHCR announced that half a million Syrians, who had fled inland or to immediate neighbouring countries, had returned home. Several media also reported last month that a growing group of Syrians wants to return voluntarily from the Netherlands. Meanwhile, the Netherlands continues to grant asylum to new asylum migrants from Syria. This is very contradictory and cannot be the intention. Return must now be the starting point. However, the post on which the asylum status for Syrians is assessed dates back to June 2015 and describes a completely outdated situation. That is why I have tabled a motion calling on the Secretary of State to withdraw all temporary residence permits for Syrian asylum seekers and not to issue new residence permits. The President shall: Members Van Hattem, Faber-van de Klashorst, Dercksen, Van Strien, Kok, Peter van Dijk, Van der Sluijs and Ton van Kesteren propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the security situation has improved in large parts of Syria in such a way that many Syrians return independently within and outside their own region;]] [[Whereas, despite this, many Syrian asylum seekers still reside in the Netherlands with a fixed-term residence permit and are still granted new residence permits;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw all fixed-term residence permits for Syrian asylum seekers and not to issue new residence permits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It is high time to choose for our own people. Not spreading asylum reception across all our regions, but reception in our own region. Housing for ordinary Dutch instead of population housing for half the world. Not so-called manageable migration by the EU, but controlling our own borders, closing borders for mass immigration and the associated Islamisation. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I see that there are no other Members who wish to speak in the first term. The Secretary of State for Justice and Security has the opportunity to reply immediately, so I will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Hattem for his first-term contribution. He starts by sketching a contradiction that I don't see as he experiences it. He says he wants control and control over his own borders, which would be at odds with having a fully-fledged European asylum policy. I think that these two objectives are much closer to each other than Mr Van Hattem points out, even if only because we are dealing with another reality, which I am very attached to. That is the Europe of open borders, of the Schengen area, which, at least in everyday life, has led to a great deal less delay and nuisance for anyone who has to transport goods or wants to visit other countries as a person than we used to until 30 years ago. In this reality of a Europe of open borders, which also benefits the Dutch economy, it is also true that people who are not entitled to stay in the Netherlands move freely throughout Europe, even though we would not want to. It is precisely then that you need a full and complete European asylum policy, to agree between all those Member States on who is responsible for applying for asylum, who is responsible for providing reception and who is responsible for ensuring the return of people who do not have the right to stay. It is not the case that Brussels decides who we allow. In the end, that's what the Dutch government itself is about. Here, from the point of view of the IND, the assessment is always made whether someone complies with the rules for lawful residence, but I think that in the end we will benefit a great deal, including the Dutch people, if rules in this respect have been designed within the same framework within Europe. I would not like to go along with the statement that no result has been achieved in the last 19 years. Just look at the EU-Turkey Declaration of two years ago, which made the influx into the European Union through the eastern Mediterranean route very, very much decreased. As a result, in both 2016 and 2017 we had to deal with an influx of about 30,000 people, which varies by nature and size in both years. This contrasts sharply with the 52,000 people from 2015 and the forecasts we had that those numbers would increase much further. This is one of the examples that shows that it makes sense to agree on this at European level. At the same time, the system is not yet perfect. Grosso mode could be said to move three blocks within Europe. We call on the Member States at the external borders, particularly in southern Europe, to ensure that these external borders are properly monitored. They are obliged under the existing Dublin Regulation to register the applicants on entry. At the same time, we see that too many people are able to move into Europe unregistered, mostly to countries in North or Northwest Europe. For our sake, too, it should be possible to register them at the external borders. Then the other principle comes into view, which is also part of effective solidarity. It places disproportionate pressure on Member States at the external borders of Europe in the event of high influx. It is precisely then that we should complete the Dublin system, the Dublin Regulation, by helping to reduce the burden experienced by Member States at the external borders in the event of disproportionate influx. Then you should have a principle of relocation of people who have entered the external borders. Solidarity in this means, for me, that we are not used to doing what we usually do with a few Member States, as we are, and a number of countries that are very similar to us. But it is precisely at this time that we must be ready to relocate with all the Member States of the European Union. Mr Van Hattem pointed out that it was cleverly complicated to come to such a conclusion from the negotiations on the whole common European asylum system, which consists of seven coherent proposals, which are currently under way. I refuse to accept that this will be a nightmare, which lies in Mr Van Hattem's question. But it's not a dream either. It is bitterly serious that these are complex negotiations, precisely because of the conflict of interests. But we are constantly looking for allies in Europe and we are also looking for coherence. It is precisely for this reason that we regard the seven proposals as one integrated package. Of course, at the time of final compromises, the Dutch Government will assess whether it really is an improvement on the current situation. If it isn't, you shouldn't be working on it. In the first two JHA Rays I have attended, I have seen among colleagues from other Member States of Europe that many Member States are struggling with this problem. Many Member States see that there are all kinds of concerns that they themselves are experiencing. There is a great willingness to take steps forward in these negotiations. That's incredibly difficult. The previous two Presidents of the European Union, Malta and Estonia, failed. The current Bulgarian Presidency has once again expressed new ambitions in this regard. It won't be easy. It will not immediately lead to the most perfect outcome, but I do hope that we will be able to come up with a good package step by step in the coming months. The concrete expectations I have in this respect are not just about resettlement. That's the final part. I think it should start somewhere else. I believe that we should enable frontline states to effectively monitor these external borders. At the moment when the influx at the external borders is less, you also have fewer problems with resettlement. That's where it starts as far as I'm concerned. Resettlement is the key in extreme circumstances, not the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u7	I hear the Secretary of State say that he has good hopes that it will be possible to regulate it at European level in the coming months, but what is this good hope based on? We have seen that, over the past 20 years, we have not or hardly managed to achieve anything effective in this area. Why should something be achieved in a few months' time which the Secretary of State says is actually achieving the European policy he is looking for, while there are very clear contradictions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u8	For two reasons. No matter how hard it is, when you're in politics, you have to keep pulling and pushing and sometimes rattling to get something done. Secondly, and that is simply the reality, I noticed at the last JHA Council meeting that everyone is struggling with these problems. Everyone sees that in this way we will not be able to cope with a next migration crisis in Europe. There's one more thing. I have noticed that people also see the link with the Europe of open borders, with the Schengen area. It's probably too valuable just to risk it. If we do not settle all these matters properly, I am terrified that in a future migration crisis, and perhaps at more borders than we saw in 2015/2016, you will have border controls back. For the sake of the people who want to cross the border and for the sake of trade, I would find a very, very bad outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u9	The fact that the Secretary of State thinks this is going to be settled is, of course, an expectation. But what if it doesn't come out? We are in June and nothing has yet been achieved at European level; his expectation has not been met. What measures will he then take as Secretary of State of the Dutch Cabinet, which should represent the interests of the Netherlands and the Dutch people, to protect the Netherlands from further asylum migration? That is the starting point which we must assume, even if it cannot be regulated at European level what the Secretary of State is trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u10	It's always hard to answer questions like that. Previous Presidencies have not yet been able to answer the question as to what the fallback option is. This means at least that we are going to work on the next Presidency in order to achieve this. Mr Van Hattem's question, which lies behind it, is what we are doing for the situation in the Netherlands. Then I cherish what we do have, for example, the fact that we have a considerably reduced inflow as a result of the EU-Turkey declaration. Many other initiatives are still possible. For example, bilateral agreements with other countries, including on return and readmission. That's what the coalition agreement says. There are as many more things as possible. I would add that it is sub-optimal when we would not succeed in achieving a harmonised approach with the entire European Union and all Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u11	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u12	It's still a big problem, of course. You say that we continue to cherish the Schengen area, but apart from the transporters and holidaymakers, it is a fact that asylum migrants can simply move through six, seven, eight safe countries without being stopped and approached at one point. That is also a problem for the Schengen area. I do not hear anything about an effective approach to this. You say the influx has been reduced, but we're still at 30,000 a year, which is a lot. In Germany, 15,000 new asylum applications per month are received. We have just heard the figures. The influx within Europe remains strong and therefore especially in the Netherlands. So what can be done within that cherished Schengen area to tackle asylum migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u13	This in itself is a legitimate concern of Mr Van Hattem. In this way you can and should even look at the subject. Apart from the port of Rotterdam and Schiphol, the Netherlands has no external border. Nevertheless, we also see influx into the Netherlands. That is precisely the point that we want to provide for a solution in Europe, but that can only be monitored in the triangle of external borders, also for the sake of southern Europe, good registration there and then an effective mechanism to relocate people within all the Member States of Europe, because you cannot just leave the frontline states with the high influx. That is not without opportunity, because I am confident that the Bulgarian Presidency will be putting forward new proposals in this way in the coming months. Then it will not be easy discussions, but I really hope that we will be able to achieve the majorities needed in Europe. If none of that is true, I'd like to come back here in a while and see what we have to do. Nor is it true that we have nothing at the moment, because there is an existing Dublin regulation that we want to improve. But he's here. Mr Van Hattem had a question about Dublin transfers to Greece, which are currently difficult and therefore not taking place. At the same time, the European Commission made a recommendation to Greece at the end of 2016 setting out all the measures Greece needs to take to comply with the asylum acquis in order to be able to resume the transfer. I would like to say straight away that Greece is thriving with that. The reports they should have produced in 2017 are not yet available, but the European Asylum Agency EASO has now taken the initiative to form a working group composed of experts from a number of Member States to at least prepare the operational process. The Netherlands also took part in this, precisely because we think it is important that Greece improves its life and identifies a number of locations that meet the requirements to accommodate Dublin claimants. So that's what we're working on. In order to shape the process of the resumption of Dublin claims in Greece, the cabinet has also decided to claim a limited number of foreign nationals eligible for transfer from Greece. More Member States have done so. We are currently awaiting answers from Greece. Decisions on the actual transfer to Greece will only be taken if Greece explicitly agrees and provides a full individual guarantee regarding the asylum procedure and reception, and the Netherlands is also aware of the situation in the reception locations in which those concerned will end up. So we are also working with the other Member States to at least improve these conditions in Greece, so that we can actually go back to Greece at some point. At the moment, we are in the first phase, and that is not a stage that makes us happy or a stage that complies with European agreements. That is why we are working with other Member States to persuade Greece to improve its life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u14	Thank you for the answer that was not given to a question from me. I am somewhat surprised at the measures that have now been taken towards Greece. I believe that in the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe the M.S.S. case has not yet been closed. Greece is still under monitoring when it comes to compliance with that judgment. Is it not true that we have to wait until the time when the Committee of Ministers says: okay, now we can see that Greece is complying with the ECHR, and only now can we proceed to claims and to retake transfers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u15	I don't think Mrs. Strik and I disagree. It's a matter of doing one thing and not leaving the other. We do not have any actual transfer of people to Greece at the moment. This can only happen when the situation is such that we have guarantees that the conditions in the reception locations are sufficient. But it is precisely in order to put pressure on that process that Member States cannot sit back and make no claims to Greece. It is precisely the submission of Dublin claims to Greece that puts additional pressure on Greece to improve its life and ensure that these reception sites are available at any time. Mrs. Strik can rest assured. The actual return of people will only take place when the circumstances are there, and that is when we agree on it at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u16	So I can count on the Minister to await a decision of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. I must say that I find a claim a special tool to appeal to a country for improvement measures. As far as I'm concerned, you can't make a claim until the situation has actually improved and is sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u17	That would be best in any case, but at the same time I note that we sometimes have to go some unorthodox ways towards Greece in order to persuade the authorities to improve their lives and, above all, to take care of the corresponding measures. Mr Van Hattem asked about the vulnerable. The European Commission has not provided a clear definition of "vulnerable persons" in the Recommendation. In any case, the persons who have been claimed from the Netherlands are not vulnerable persons. In any case, we have excluding pregnant women, families with young children and persons with serious diseases. Mr Van Hattem asked whether it was a different definition from the UNHCR. I have to say that the European Commission has not given a definition and that we are in line with common international definitions of 'vulnerable persons'. Here again, I am probably going to be many stages further away from the fact that in the case of a well-functioning Dublin claim system, anyone who is eligible for return to the country of first entry under the Dublin Regulation will eventually be returned. In the end, this also applies to vulnerable people. The interruption debate just now shows that I fear that we will have some time before we get to that situation. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework. It is one of the two conventions negotiated at UN level. There's also one about migration. This framework, this treaty, this policy framework I don't know how to say it in good Dutch.. is about refugees. It is a result of UN conferences in 2016. I think it is important initiatives, which the Netherlands wholeheartedly supports. It is a unique attempt to formulate principles at international level for dealing with regular, safe and orderly migration on the one hand and refugee flows on the other. A first statement was adopted in New York in 2016. The text underlines the starting points and also recognises many aspects of the Dutch commitment. Reception in the region is the first option. It is also a question of supporting host communities in the region that provide places for refugees. I refer to the integration of people recognised as refugees, including access to employment and education. It is also about promoting return. That's always the other side of the coin. If you find that people can legally stay here and have the right to protection, then there are also people who do not. And then return will have to be more frequent and faster than in the past. Finally, I would like to mention a greater commitment to resettlement. It would be good if we were able to come up with an international text. I do not think that this text will have any obligations for Europe in the sense that we need to organise things quite differently. I really suspect that in the Netherlands we certainly have legislation in order. You can come to recognition of concepts that we have here in Europe, for example. I have just mentioned the commitment to reception in the region and support to host communities. I think that is important, but it is precisely in this area that UN statements could be made about the desired design. The same applies to return obligations. It should not be a text that merely says something about what states should do. It should also be about rights and obligations that individuals themselves have. The duty to return when you do not have a lawful stay is part of that. We're looking for balance in this. I note, moreover, that we are very similar in the 28 Member States of the EU. It really needs to be a balanced text. Negotiations on the final compact for refugees, of which the Refugee Response Framework already adopted will be an integral part, began last week. It's still hard to tell what's gonna come out of that. I believe that all UN Member States are currently studying the first texts worldwide. We'll see how that goes later this year. The Chambers will be informed about the government's commitment to this. I think it is also in our own interests that there should be more international solidarity for countries that receive refugees on a large scale, much larger than here. Then the question of quantifying a manageable migration flow. It is, of course, very tempting to mention numbers. I see they do that to our eastern neighbours in the coalition agreement. At the same time, the reality of the world around us is not such that you can cling to one number. I note that in the two years after the high influx of 2015 we had a lower influx; I mentioned the numbers. I hope we can get that influx down a little more in the future. At the same time, I note that you do not have that exclusively in your own hands. I think it is important that we maintain our own assessment framework, that we continue to check who does and does not comply with the rules. Where people have a promising request, we must try to move faster towards permanent housing and integration. Where this is not the case, we must focus on speeding up our return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u18	May I ask the Secretary of State how much time he thinks he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u19	About eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u20	I now hear the Secretary of State say that he is immediately moving towards permanent housing and integration in the context of the influx. Of course, we have a system in which residence permits are first and foremost fixed-term. Once the situation in a country is safe again, the aim must be to get people back instead of permanent housing. How should I interpret this remark from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u21	That remark is precisely as stated in the coalition agreement. People come in and then it is established whether they are entitled to stay and protection in the Netherlands or not. If that is not the case, then return is on the agenda. If it is, there will be an asylum permit. It's five years for a certain period of time, right now. The intention in the coalition agreement is to reduce this, initially to three years. But that doesn't mean that people who stay in the shelter for five years. In the meantime, we provide regular housing in the Netherlands for people who have a status. Then there is also the issue of the process of housing and integration, still bearing in mind that it is a temporary permit and that it is necessary to return if the war or the conflict or what is sought for protection is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u22	It is true that temporary is something other than permanent. I hear a lot about integration and about influx, but what is the government going to do to make it possible for those for whom the situation in the homeland is safe again, instead of just looking at housing and integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u23	We're doing two cases. First of all, we're gonna build in an extra key moment. You are probably aware of the intention of the government agreement to start bringing the asylum permit back to three years, so that is the test moment. And if protection is a temporary thing, we still have a way to go in the Netherlands to consider that with each other as temporary. We shall come to that later when these proposals are made. You often see that people integrate, learn the language and get to work, but we should do all that with the temporary permit in mind. And what we can add to people's knowledge, expertise and skills would not have to stand in the way of a way back after the conflict, when the temporary permit is no longer in question. On the one hand, you prevent people's lives from standing still, while the acquired knowledge and skills can be used over time to help build the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u24	Mr Van Hattem, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u25	Yeah, finally. It must be clear, therefore, that the first priority is temporaryity. Can the government at least take that as a starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u26	Oh, yeah. That is also the government's intention and starting point. Let me take up the last issue raised by Mr Van Hattem before I answer the remaining questions about the location in Budel. That was about the status holders from Syria. Mr Van Hattem says that it is safe enough at the moment in Syria, so we should withdraw all permits immediately. We are doing this in the same way as for all other countries. The report on Syria dates back to 2015. In the meantime, we have announced that a new report will be published this year. That will be done in the summer of this year. As with all other countries, we assess the situation in Syria on the basis of a statement of office led by the embassy on the ground. Foreign Affairs conducts that investigation and involves all information from all relevant institutions and parties on the ground. I do not think we should enter into the debate on how safe or unsafe it is today in Syria. You can argue about that for a long time. It is precisely in order to stay there that I think we should base ourselves on objective information on the ground. So that's what happens later this year. Should the message of office give rise to this, we will also reformulate the country's policy towards Syria. But if Mr Van Hattem's question were to get away from the fact that he actually thinks that all residence permits should be withdrawn immediately, I can see that in the motion too, I repeat what I said about this in the House of Representatives: with today's situation, you might still be deceived if you wanted to get that report on Syria today. Because I don't know if there are people who dare to write today that it is completely safe in Syria. For that reason, too, I think it would be good to just wait for the message of office. In that sense, therefore, I would also advise against the motion tabled by Mr Van Hattem on this matter; let me add that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the common foreign location in Budel. The cabinet intends to establish a number of large-scale locations that we call "common alien site." The reception location in Budel in the municipality of Cranendonck is one of the locations in the picture. The concept means that chain partners, therefore, the COA, the IND, the Return and Departure Service, the Marechaussee and the police can operate under one roof in each other's vicinity. Putting all these chain partners physically close together will achieve greater efficiency, which will help speed up and complete asylum procedures. That approach has already proved itself in Ter Apel. The location Budel, like Ter Apel, already has a login location. The aim of a second common alien site with login location is to be better prepared as a chain in the future for a changing influx. Only one point for the registration process, as in Ter Apel, has proved too vulnerable in recent years. I was present at the signing of an administrative agreement between the COA on the one hand and the municipality of Cranendonck on the other. The COA has done so as an independent administrative body. This means continuing the reception site on the site of the former Nassau-Dietzkazerne. This, of course, raises the question of how this is to be seen in addition to the intention to do small-scale reception. The intention of the Cabinet is to have such a large-scale reception in a limited number of places and, preferably, to divide between those who have a successful application for asylum, for example, because it is clear from national policy that there is a great chance of accepting the request, and those who do not. The aim is to ensure that, in the final analysis, those who have a non-chanced asylum application do not go beyond the large-scale reception from which the return journey can be started. At the same time, the people who make a promising request will eventually be placed in a more small-scale shelter, preferably in or with the municipality where the final housing takes place, because then you can also work on integration as soon as possible. In this way, large-scale and small-scale fit side by side. In Mr Van Hattem's question, of course, it is already very much decided that this is just something to accommodate mass immigration. I think reality is different. Especially in the case of larger influxes, you can ensure that the procedures are handled quickly and efficiently. In the end, this might also prove to be an improvement in people's return, because people do not continue to fall endlessly between shore and ship and have a lack of clarity about their own position. By the way, Budel isn't a new place either. The COA is already there. In that sense, therefore, there are not going to be all kinds of new things happening there. Mr Van Hattem pointed out that, in his opinion, the residents were not involved. I got a really different impression on the spot. There were also residents. There was a local authority involved that indicated that it was quite exciting a few years ago, when the first plans came, but that in practice there was an excellent cooperation with the local residents, who, by the way, live at quite a distance, because it is a barracks that is far outside the built-up area. I have also received no signals from local agents who were on the spot that there is a disproportionate amount of nuisance or such. Finally, there was the question of how to measure the nuisance that is not reported. If it is not reported, it is of course complicated, but that is precisely why it was so important to me that I did not receive any signals from district agents. On the contrary, they say they often come there and that they don't find this a more complicated place than other locations in the municipality. Mr. Chairman. To my best knowledge, I have the questions... Oh, no, there remains a question about the purchase of the asylum-seekers' centre in question. The purchase at the COA takes place via European procurement pathways. The tender shall then be awarded to the party with the most favourable value for money. That is the answer to the question as to why there would be more expensive washing machines there, which are also leased out or why the butcher would or would not be the cheapest. In the end, it is the most favourable tender. This is simply done according to the procurement rules. Under the procurement rules, local entrepreneurship can be promoted by local purchasing policies under the European procurement rules. In this sense, you should read the information on the 20% that local entrepreneurs can ultimately deliver. Local entrepreneurship will then fall below the threshold of the calls for tenders. I think that's good for the local support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u27	Mr. Van Hattem, you're about to get a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u28	I have a very brief interruption. I cannot fully reconcile this with the fact that tenders have already been made. There are already framework agreements and so on. Are there any new calls for tenders that this municipality could specifically participate in with local entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u29	I suspect that some of the calls for tenders at the level of the COA are made nationwide and some at the level of the local establishment. How exactly that relates to this location, I dare not say here. I could inform your room about that later. By the way, contracts aren't for eternity. Regular contracts expire and a new call for tenders is made. As in the case of other locations, this site also looks at the exemptions for the involvement of local entrepreneurs, which then fall under the threshold amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u30	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his first-term response. Then we'll get to the second term on the side of the Chamber. To that end, I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u31	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. Of course we will not agree on all points; let that be very clear. I have a few more things I'd like to ask you about. I asked a question about the large-scale locations in relation to the smaller locations. The Secretary of State himself indicated that he intends to house asylum seekers in smaller-scale locations near the municipalities where they will eventually receive housing. How is this going to be regulated in practice? How can the Secretary of State know in advance which asylum seeker will be housed in which municipality? How is that determined? What system is behind that? Around the housing of azc's and the increased asylum influx, national control tables and provincial and regional control tables have been set up in recent years. They also play a role in such housing of azc locations. Those directional tables have a high degree of untransparency. For us as citizens and representatives of the people, it is completely unclear what exactly is being discussed there, what agreements have been made and what exactly is going on there, literally and figuratively. My question to the Secretary of State is whether there can be more transparency around those director tables and whether minutes of discussions and such can be made public so that the citizens of this country know what is being decided about their surroundings. The Secretary of State talks about international solidarity with countries that receive many refugees. Again: how great is the effective solidarity with the Dutch people? A framework is still being maintained: we still need to maintain that asylum influx. The Netherlands must remain open to receiving asylum migrants, while they can still move through six, seven, eight safe countries without being effectively stopped there. How much solidarity is there with our own people? We still see that tens of thousands of asylum seekers per year have their reception capacity maintained. How realistic is that and how does it relate to the needs and burdens of our own people? We have been elected here in our Parliament to represent it, not halfway around the world. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Then we'll be ready for the government's rejoinder. To this end, I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u33	Thank you, Mr President. First, the question of the large-scale alien site versus small-scale care and how this will be regulated in practice. If someone has a status, someone is already housed in one of the municipalities in the Netherlands. There are agreements with the municipalities about the people they house. We are at the beginning of the planning process about what we want in the future, so I can only inform your Chamber about this once we have that. We would like to add a step to this, namely that we also look at, for example, the knowledge, skills and background of someone and how this fits, for example, the regional labour market in the place where they are ultimately housed. Ideally, in the future, someone would enter a large-scale location and then go to a smaller-scale shelter, which may or may not function as a satellite of such a large-scale location, in or near the municipality where the final housing takes place. At present, people sometimes move four or five times from one asylum-seekers centre to another. This ultimately hampers their integration and their path to self-employment without benefits. That is why we want to refine the system. You will never get a 100% match between the person and the municipality, but we try to do better than in the past. Once again, as soon as we have these plans, I will inform your Chamber. Then there is the question of national management tables. I don't think we should make it any more exciting than it is. This is in the core coordination between drivers at different levels in the Netherlands. This will automatically make what is happening there transparent. At a state level, it has consequences for the policy we pursue from the cabinet. Then the Chambers will be informed. When it has consequences for provinces or municipalities, this obviously means something in the accountability relationship between the provincial government or the municipal government and the states or the city council. In this sense, the system is ultimately transparent. As we do in many other areas, from movement to education and from social affairs to migration, regional and national agreements are made between different administrative levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u34	I want to correct something. I see that there is no feedback at all at the director's tables towards the representative of the people. For example Provincial States, which I am allowed to be part of, do not get feedback on what is being discussed at provincial control tables. It is simply said that this is a task of the ruler and the ruler does not have to answer for it from the CdK. If citizens submit WOB requests on the director's tables, that information shall not be released. It is now said that we should not make things more exciting, but that is all very shady. In the end, we see the consequences. I see small municipalities in the province where disproportionately many status holders are housed, where the population does not remember their own village. Those are the consequences we see. But what's been discussed at the director's tables, they don't get to see those citizens. I want to make it clear to the citizens that they can get that information if they want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u35	You have to see my remark that we should not make it more exciting than it is, also in the light of the present time frame. If you think back to the situation two years ago, then the outcome of discussions at those director's tables is something you can agree with or not come out. There, for example, agreements were made on which municipality had a place to house an asylum seekers' centre. Today's reality is that, while we are first scaled up from 50 to more than 100 asylum seekers' centres, we are now back to 61 asylum seekers' centres. So the decisions that fall there or the agreements that are made with each other are, by their nature, less exciting at the moment than the agreements made two years ago. In the national director's table, for example, we are currently looking at the issue I have just mentioned: what is going to be involved in connecting large-scale to small-scale regions? What are we going to do about that in the future? That helps to get the plan we have later this year, as I announced. But I have the suspicion that this is a little less exciting than the situation the national director's tables faced two years ago. The implications for the government's policy are really heard from the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u36	Things are going to be discussed again at the director's tables, also for small-scale reception, whether it is exciting or not. Could the Secretary of State perhaps agree that citizens can understand what is being discussed at the director's tables? Can the documents, reports and so on be made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u37	I do not believe that this will ultimately help to make agreements, because I believe that directors should be able to make agreements there and then share them with their own parliament. So as far as I am concerned, as I have just said, the commitment is that the issues that have implications for government policy are of course shared with the States-General. But I am not talking about how other directors should share that with their representatives at the table, other than that there are, of course, agreements in state and administrative law, which they will honour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u38	Mr Van Hattem, very brief and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u39	Yes, very briefly. The problem is that the provincial director tables are under the responsibility of the CdKs. Those CdKs say: we do not have to share this with the States or the municipalities, because we only have to answer to the Secretary of State. So at provincial and municipal level, there is no transparency in what is being discussed there, whereas the biggest consequences are being experienced there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u40	Then I repeat my answer: I am not going to solve this problem. At the same time, the role of the CdK as a ruler is often facilitating the process. It is very often a question of concrete matters that ultimately countries in municipalities and by the local college of mayors and aldermen are indeed shared with the city council. Mr. Chairman. The last question concerns effective solidarity with its own people. It's big. It is expressed on two points. Firstly, I would like to maintain the Europe of open borders for the people of the Netherlands. This has all kinds of consequences for the free movement of goods and persons. That's a big good. Two years ago, we saw what happens if several Member States temporarily close their borders. At the same time, better regulations and better agreements in Europe help to bring down the influx into the Netherlands. The best proof of this is what has happened over the last two years following the EU-Turkey declaration. Without that explanation, we looked at inflow projections that went up to over 90,000. That statement will bring the influx back to 30,000 and hopefully bring it down even further in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u42	I have come to deal with the proposal. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u43	The bill is passed without a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u44	Anybody want a note? That is not the case either. I propose that we vote on Mr Van Hattem's motion in 14 days' time on 6 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-6.u45	I shall suspend the meeting for a few minutes pending the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
