ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u1	The next item is the debate on espionage by Russia. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Defence and give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u2	Thank you, Mr President. At the beginning of October, because this debate was indeed requested a while ago, it turned out that our intelligence service, the STUD, had disrupted a Russian cyber operation. That is a world achievement, that can be said. The STIVD prevented Russian military intelligence from breaking into the OPCW. That was an aggressive and shameless attack of espionage. Moreover, it appeared that the same spies were also active in the MH17 case, in the anti-doping authority and in the U.S. elections. There is no denying that Russia is actively trying to influence and undermine elections, international investigations and public opinion. Earlier, people, even here, in this Chamber, were still inclined to trivialize this threat; that would all be not so bad and there was no evidence of it. Now let that naivety be over for everyone; this is just a real, actual and continuous threat. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of the Interior is launching a government campaign against fake news. So we can monitor and limit this influence in the coming election year. Previously, the Chamber discussed this issue and the implications for relations with Russia. Cyberattacks are now also a reason to impose sanctions. These hackers are also placed on the EU sanctions list, so that is already settled. In doing so, we ensure that cyber attacks of this kind do not go unpunished. I ask the Foreign Minister how this sanction regime is now deployed. What steps is he going to take? I'd like a response. This cyber attack isn't on its own. The OPCW hackers have also been sued in connection with a nuclear power company. In 2015, Russian hackers flattened Ukraine's electricity grid and in 2017 there was an attack by Russian malware, NotPetya, which flattened a terminal in the port of Rotterdam. The Secretary of Defense even said that there was a cyber war, and that was not a sensible statement. That's also a statement that raises questions. Is there indeed a cyber war? What's the definition? If it was meant to be figuratively, what exactly was meant to be, I ask her. In addition, a cyber-general from the Department of Defense at Nieuwsuur said she'd like to hack cars. That's not a good idea at all, because if I'm driving my kids to France, I don't want the car to be unsafe or kept unsafe by the Defense Department. After all, criminals can hack into that car and cause an accident? That is why today D66 comes up with an initiative law to lay down rules for the use of cyber weapons by the government, because it has to be a broader consideration than just the narrow approach to national security and the ability to track suspects or eliminate targets. Security interests in the wider sense of the economy, privacy and vital infrastructure of our country must also be taken into account. Finally. I too will be brief on this last day of the parliamentary year, a common thread for all of us as far as I am concerned. Yes, Mr President, that is also my intention for 2019, although it is already a bit crumbling because I talk about it longer, but that will be a piece of the past. Mr. Chairman. The threat is clear. Cyber attacks are becoming more common, resulting in a kind of digital Wild West. That is why I call on the Foreign Minister to work for an international treaty to lay down rules and principles on cyber war, like the Geneva Convention, but for digital warfare, to prevent cyber attacks on critical civilian infrastructure such as electricity networks, water treatment or hospitals. I know that's not easy. Attribution is always difficult when it comes to cyberattacks, but it's time to do it now. Does the Minister support this call? How will he make an international commitment to this? Is he prepared to look with a group of like-minded countries for a joint proposal within the United Nations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u3	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u4	Mr. Chairman. Here are compliments for the STUDY in place. Intelligence has foiled a cyberattack by the Russians. Let everyone now pass the naivety; I have said it before. The Russians are spying on our streets and in our own backyard of the House of Representatives. That is why it is also good that this cabinet invests heavily in STIVD, but also invests heavily in cyber. Not only Russia, but also other countries such as China and hacker groups are active in and against the Netherlands. The Netherlands is also an interesting target. The goal is espionage, influence, disruption, but the ultimate goal can also be destruction of vital systems. There's really very little left of our peace dividend. This calls for sharp, strong and effective measures to combat digital attacks and to be able to repay them in an appropriate way. These ministers have already written once before that they are developing a broad strategic framework, such as public attribution.............................................................................................................................................................................................. They are actually parts of the cyber diplomacy that the AIV already insisted on in 2012. Six years have passed by now. What is the situation with regard to the development of these various individual measures? This Minister is also committed to turning to cybersanctions from the European Union. How's that going? Russia's hacking attempt at the OPCW involved espionage at an international organisation. This raises the question of when a cyber attack is an infringement of the international legal order or, for example, a breach of Article 5. Following D66, the CDA believes that states should quickly make binding legal agreements on and give practical effect to the translation of war law into the digital domain. One day, of course, the Tallinn manual was drawn up. That was done by lawyers, but that is a non-binding legal framework. States must, of course, agree at political level on exactly how to implement it. Now there is a risk that each state will give its own spin to that. I would like to hear a response from the rulers. There really is another element attached to it. This means that in the Netherlands too, it must be clear when digital action by a state is actually a military attack, an act of war. For example, when is a disruptive cyberattack at a hospital causing patients to die also an official act of war? This means that as a country, that the Netherlands, you also have to answer the question of who will address which party on what basis. And that integral picture is missing at least for the CDA at the moment. The CDA therefore asks the Minister to make a translation of war law into the digital domain for the Netherlands as well and to let the Chamber know. I'd like a response. It is also important that we are internationally resilient and can defend ourselves. That calls for a NATO that can deploy offensive cyber-soldiers. The question is under what conditions and when this commitment is allowed. I'd like a response from the Secretary of Defense. I do have a question about the action of the STUDY. The four spies have now been escorted to the border. Why has it not been considered to arrest, prosecute or extradite the spies to the United States? Due to the response of the director of the STUDY to the press conference, it seems that the services can only operate effectively in this way. Does this mean that our services lack certain powers that they do need or should need to be able to be even more effective in this respect? I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u5	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u6	Mr. Chairman. In previous debates, I have already said that breaking into a Wi-Fi network of an important international organisation, in this case the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the OPCW, is unacceptable. And that's what I'm doing now. It's a good thing this Russian cyber operation took place in time. I welcome the exceptional openness about this incident and the actions of the intelligence services. That deserves to be followed. When the Minister sought the openness of this Russian action, he emphasised a war with Russia, a cyber war in which we would be involved. To this the call was linked to being "not naive." Of course, naive is no one here in the Chamber. However, I believe it is irresponsible to use a term like "war." That implies quite a bit. You could call such a word "naïve," although that might be a little too kind. Let me ask you a question about this. Can the Minister give examples of acts of war against vital infrastructure in the field of cyber against the Netherlands or one of our allies, in which Russia, the Russian State, has been found to be behind it? 'Cause this is where I think we're gonna have a core problem. How can you be sure who's behind an attack? "Attribution" is called with a difficult word. In the case of the OPCW, it is clear, but not in many other cases. Many experts argue that it is almost impossible or even impossible to identify the perpetrator. This is because digital tracks can be erased. It would even be possible to leave traces of an innocent perpetrator in the event of cyberattacks. Can the Minister respond to this? How is this problem dealt with? Is attribution impossible? "Rightly, the Russian cyber operation at the OPCW has been condemned, but this kind of conviction will only be aimed at if it does not itself participate in this kind of objectionable practice, if it does not itself engage in a cyber war," I quote the Minister. I do remember an interesting piece about a Dutch hack in Russia, which was news earlier this year. The United States would have been helped in the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 elections. But what else happened? What has the Netherlands done there? Why was this hack needed? Can we do all this? Why is this acceptable? Then offensive cyber deployment. Asked about the limitations of this, the Minister did not rule out any offensive even without the so-called "Article 100" procedure, i.e. outside military missions in which the Netherlands operates. Can the Minister explain this? I find it extremely worrying. Can it be said whether the Netherlands has already committed offensive cyber attacks in the past? And does the Minister distance himself from the life-threatening suggestion of former MIVD Chief Pieter Cobelens, yesterday in the newspaper, that "all Moscow should be without tension"? Apart from one's own actions, the actions of allies are also relevant. Think of the revelations of Edward Snowden. He revealed how the United States spied on the whole world, enemies but also friends, including international organisations such as the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency. Even the EU and European politicians, up to Merkel, were bugged by the Americans. An older example concerns the so-called "Stuxnet attack" on Iran, which was particularly harmful and according to many experts from the United States came with Israeli cooperation. I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. We cannot afford to be naive about this, I would say. Therefore, the following questions. Can the Minister tell us how this espionage relates to the espionage that Russia has been accused of in recent years? Is there radicalisation in the field of espionage by superpowers in the digital age? Has undermining of the international legal order become a reality? How do we get to de-escalation? And how can we protect important infrastructure from such attacks? That seems to me to be the challenge of this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u7	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u8	Thank you, Mr President. The Dutch feel threatened by Russia. And rightly so, because Russia carries out a very aggressive policy of espionage and other infiltration. Moscow is trying to weaken other countries and international organisations through hybrid warfare, fear-sowing and disinformation, to influence their politics and to confuse their populations. This also affects the safety of Dutch people. In April of this year, STIVD intercepted four Russian spies who wanted to break into the Wi-Fi network of the OPCW based in The Hague. This is an international organization investigating the lethal poisonings recently in Salsbury in England, and the use of chemical weapons in Syria, which killed hundreds or perhaps thousands of people. The spoiled laptops of the spies also showed that those Russians had tried to break into the MH17 investigation. In short, the Russian espionage is not only directed against the Netherlands and against international organisations based in the Netherlands, of which the Netherlands hosts and has a role to play, but also against the international legal order and thus against the whole world. This leads to three conclusions for the VVD. First of all, we must thank STIVD and other secret services that have worked with STIVD very much and pay tribute. It shows once again how important they are to our security and it also shows how important it is to work with our allies. Earlier, we understood from the Minister, and I am pleased that the Brexit has no impact on security cooperation. I see the Minister nodding, so I won't ask any further questions. Secondly, we should not be naive about the threat from Moscow. It requires action. We must continue to invest in our security, as the cabinet is doing now. We also need to ensure that there are powerful powers for those services, including for our cyber army, with all guarantees, including people's privacy, so that they can keep us safe. Furthermore, we must continue to cooperate with our allies. Apart from the indignation that sometimes sounds when President Trump says something crazy or when our British friends shoot themselves in the foot again with their Brexit: these cooperation and alliances are essential for our security. So we're gonna have to put it first. The third point: that Russian espionage is also a wake-up call. There are also people in the Netherlands that I would like to call "Putin whisperers," people who, when this hack came out, tried to wring themselves in all sorts of turns or tried to justify what happened here by President Putin. We must not be naive, we must not fall into this propaganda, we must not go along with that story. We must resist this. So I say that out loud through you, Mr President, to the Putin whisperers, who may be listening. Finally, Mr President. We must keep the Netherlands safe and protect it from Russian aggression. Fortunately, our secret services are helping and our army is also working hard on this. But we must invest not only in our defence, but also in our alliances. They are, as I said, more important than daily politics and the lifted finger. Above all, we must be vigilant when it comes to those Putin whisperers. Even to those Putin whisperers, but especially to everyone here and everyone else who listens, I want to say: peaceful Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u9	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. Mrs. Karabulut wants to say something nice back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u10	I thought I already had a Christmas truce with Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u11	Yeah, I'm not that warlike. There's no war with Mr. Koopmans, for now. Mr Koopmans rightly condemns the Russian cyberattack on the OPCW. In my story, I have drawn attention to the same kind of espionage of allies, such as the US, who have also spied on international organisations and even friendly heads of state. Can that count on the same disapproval from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u12	I don't think we can talk about anything similar. We are talking about Russian hacks in an organization that is trying to protect us all during attacks with chemical weapons. Chemical weapons are banned worldwide. Chemical weapons are still used in Syria and have caused 1,000 or more casualties there. They are even used by the Russian secret service in Britain, our neighbour. In addition, it has been found that those Russian spies are also trying to infiltrate the MH17 investigation. That MH17 investigation is definitely of a different order. So I don't want to compare that. I would find it worrying if Mrs Karabulut says: that is a bad thing, but what the Americans or the others are doing is not so much fun; so, yes, can we not strike it out a little bit? No. It's horrible. Let's point out that we condemn the Russian espionage here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u13	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u14	I have the impression that Mr Koopmans wants to start some sort of war, while I confirm that what the Russians are doing is unacceptable. The US has also used chemical weapons in wars in the past. That's not good either. But also the United States have spied in the UN, the EU and even at Merkel. Then it is not so strange that this form of espionage should also be rejected, that we should also protect ourselves from it. Or does Mr Koopmans consider one to be objectionable and the other not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u15	We do not now have a debate on espionage in general. I also think that Mrs Karabulut does not want to open some sort of philosophical-historical debate on espionage. We are talking about the horrible espionage that has taken place nearby by the Russians. It was about chemical weapons, about hundreds or thousands of people who were murdered. And it was also about the MH17 investigation. Then I find it inappropriate to drag in other actions and say: yes, but it also does this espionage. No, this is about horrible Russian espionage, about chemical weapons, about MH17. I do not think that we should equate that with anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u16	I find that disturbing, because Mr Koopmans pretends to reason for all this in our safety. But when it concerns an ally or another country that doesn't fit in, the VVD apparently looks away. Let me ask you a follow-up question. What do you think of the interference of both Russia and the United States in foreign elections? It is well known that in many countries the United States has tried to influence the elections and has also earmarked billions for them. So Russia, certainly not good. But that's not good from any country, is it? Or are we allowed to do it and the Russians don't? Is that the rule of law you advocate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u17	Mrs Karabulut says two things here. First of all, she says we're looking away. No, we're talking about horrible espionage by Russia. That's what we're looking at right now. And then we all say: that is unacceptable, that has no place here. Fortunately, I hear Mrs Karabulut say that somewhere. Secondly, Mrs Karabulut says that espionage is generally a bad thing and asks whether we should not always condemn it. We can, of course, have a debate here on espionage in general, but we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u19	I'd like to finish my story anyway. But when we talk about crimes, we condemn them. If we're talking about a specific crime here, we're talking about that specific crime. What should be at the forefront is the safety of the Netherlands, the safety of the Dutch. The Russians affected it in a very concrete way here. Then I am happy in the spirit of Christmas; let me just say that Mrs Karabulut also agrees with me that this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u20	I'd like to continue with that. If we're talking about Russians spying on us, we're talking shame. I agree with Mr Koopmans. I will make that clear in my contribution. I would like to continue with what Mrs Karabulut rightly said. Mr Koopmans, how do you feel about other countries being guilty of exactly the same practices? Do you condemn this in general or do you say: no, it is about the Russians; we need to tackle them a little more firmly, because they go beyond other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u21	I am getting some extra admiration for Mrs Karabulut. For Mr Kuzu is talking about other countries that are guilty of exactly the same thing. At least that's not what Mrs Karabulut said. I have said it and I am going to repeat it again; I am very sorry that I have to do so now. What those Russians have done is not something that all the other countries have just done. No, the Russian espionage was about chemical weapons. Horrible weapons. You've seen the footage. Horrible weapons. Hundreds, thousands of people have been killed with them in recent years. In our neighbour England, people died because of it. It is about chemical weapons, which there in England, so the investigations reveal, were used by the Russians. Those Russians were arrested here. Right around the corner, Mr. Kuzu, I say through you, Mr. Chairman. Those Russians also tried to break into the investigation into the MH17. That's something else, isn't it? espionage, whether it's from Russia, from the United States, from Turkey or from anyone else, is bad if it's bad. Then we name it and say, "That's bad." But when it comes to chemical weapons and hundreds, thousands of deaths and the investigation into MH17, I say, that is not comparable. I find it very worrying that Mr Kuzu now says: yes, that is all the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u22	Mr Koopmans should not worry so much in the Christmas spirit. He also does not have to worry about DENK's position on this. In all the points raised by Mr Koopmans, I go very far with him. What Russia has done with regard to the MH17 and with these activities is appalling. My question was in general: do you condemn other espionage activities, such as those of the United States, Israel and other countries? The answer to that sounds affirmative, so you don't have to worry so much. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u23	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u24	I would just like to say that Mr Kuzu is right to say that what is bad should be called bad. But what is very bad, we must also dare to call it very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u26	At least there will be a bit of debate, Mr President. STUDY, together with the British and our own AIVD, has done a good job. That happens all the time, at least I assume. But most of the time, we don't know that. Then it is deliberately chosen to keep the operations secret. Now that hasn't happened. Consciously, it was chosen for public access, so that, at least in the letter, it made it more difficult for Russian intelligence officers to operate internationally in the future. If that is the case now, perhaps it could be more common. Is there a new approach? That's how I ask the cabinet. Do we hear more often about successful or sometimes less successful operations? What exactly is the effect of openness and what effect has it achieved? The operation has raised another question in my group, namely the division of tasks between our departments. Is it natural, as I would ask the rulers, that STUDY has the lead in this type of operation? Is the division of tasks between STIVD and STIVD always clear, especially AIVD? What does that division of labour look like? I'd like a response. In the European Union, I believe that Mr Verhoeven also spoke about rapid progress with that cyber-sanction regime. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister. Is there any rapid progress? When can we expect the implementation of that cyber-sanction regime? Finally, my final question on this point. The letter, dated 4 October, I say by heart, announces that the Netherlands is going to raise the undermining behaviour of Russian military intelligence services in the European Union and NATO. Has that happened by now? If so, what did this result in? Has it also been discussed in the OSCE Ministerial Council at the beginning of December? Cyber security is a priority there. The Russians are at the table. Is that an advantage and an opportunity to talk to the Russians about it, or is it precisely a reason to avoid this forum on this subject? I would like the Minister's appreciation on this point. Mr. Chairman. Cyber is the threat of the future. This is reflected in what has happened recently, indeed a few steps away from where we are today. And that's why the Cabinet wants to invest more in cyber. But the Defense Cyber Commando that was established more than four years ago is a bit difficult to get off the ground. Of the intended 200 employees, only 80 to 100 are employed, NRC Handelsblad reported yesterday. The command should anchor the military action in the cyber domain, said the then minister at the establishment. But there doesn't seem to be much of a gig. The image that rises is more of a kind of helpdesk that assists others with IT knowledge. Useful, but perhaps not quite what was intended. In the same piece in yesterday's NRC Handelsblad, the boss of the command acknowledges that the criticism is at least partly justified. We need patience and time, and they need to be given to us, she says. But the problem is, of course, that potential attackers do not allow that time at all and in any way. How are we going to speed up and what is needed? Shouldn't expansion of our cybersecurity capacity be much more priority than, for example, the purchase of new submarines, additional JSF aircraft or the re-entry of the tank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I just read, two minutes ago, the report in the Guardian that the US and the United Kingdom are accusing China of a long-standing hacking campaign. Hackers linked to the Chinese government I quote the Guardian.. would have launched a campaign to hack intellectual property and sensitive commercial and business data. The US and the UK would have discussed this with China at the highest level in the last two years. This shows that the debate we are having today must be about far more than the sad Russian attempt to hack into the venerable institution of OPCW. Mr. Chairman. It is good that our services were so alert and good that openness has been maintained. I would like to ask the cabinet a number of questions. We'll go to Russia first. The Minister has written that despite this failed cyber operation, dialogue with Russia must continue. What has this dialogue been like since the day ambassadors were summoned back and forth? Has the seat in the Security Council contributed to a dialogue with Russia? What is the commitment of this dialogue and what does the government intend to achieve? Of course, she wants justice for the next of kin and the victims of MH17, but what else does the government want to achieve? Is there talk of such attempts to carry out cyber operations on Dutch territory? Mr. Chairman. What is the Netherlands doing to increase digital resilience? It's about Russia. I just raised the issue of Chinese hacking. According to the United Kingdom, this would also be the case with allies across Europe. Does the Cabinet know about these attempts and what does it do to increase our digital resilience, both defensive and offensive? What are the conditions and guarantees for the offensive? And what about, I repeat, Mr Ojik, with the capacity and the considerations behind the choices to be made for the use of people and equipment? Mr. Chairman. In the letter we received from Minister Blok in October, he is very explicit about the role of the US. I quote: 'It is particularly in our interest to keep the US as an indispensable ally for European security within NATO'. I would like to ask the Minister how the cabinet imagines this with such an unpredictable ally who is squandering all the values of the free world. Why is that still an ally? I'd like an explanation from the cabinet. Finally. The same letter cites the NATO standard. Another standard has been agreed worldwide. 0.7% of gross national income should go to development cooperation expenditure, serving stability. In the end, this is also what NATO standard spending should contribute to. I'm not actually hearing anything about that from these ministers. I would like to ask them why, in his letters, the cabinet never really speaks of this 0.7% standard, in a time with a sunny economic context, when the importance of global stability, balanced development and the reduction of global inequality grows. That 0.7% standard is just as good as the NATO standard, a standard we have agreed on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u29	I just have a brief question for clarification. Mrs Ploumen rightly started her speech with China. Did I understand that she asked the two rulers whether the Netherlands was also affected by this hack? The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs says quite clearly that not only the UK was affected, but also the allies, the allies, the allies. Of course, that is not just the United States. We can be, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u30	I asked the cabinet if they were aware of the fact that the UK had known this for two years and was talking about it. And of course there is the question of what that means for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u31	And also the question of whether we are one of the countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u32	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u33	... experiencing the negative effects of that campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u34	That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u35	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u36	Mr. Chairman. The Internet is a new but increasingly important area of warfare. This turned out to be the case when, after the shooting of the MH17, our country was confronted with Russian disinformation and cyber attacks against the Security Research Council. The reality of this struggle was again apparent at the press conference on 4 October last, where the Minister of Defense, the Head of STUD and the British Ambassador gave the world an insight into the successful disruption of a Russian cyber operation at the OPCW in The Hague. Compliments for the fine work of our people at the STUDY and their British colleagues, as I heard earlier from colleagues in the Chamber. We are happy to support that. With this, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom gave a clear and correct signal to Russia and the Russian military intelligence service: we see through you and just stop. In the meantime, my group still has a number of questions. The first question is: how do we strengthen our cybersecurity for the longer term? The fact that the Netherlands is already investing in cybersecurity is crucial. It's a good thing the government's gonna put a shovel on top of that. Can the Secretary of Defense give a tip of the veil about how much money and how our cyber capacity is further strengthened? For example, will there be more operational cyber units? Can the Minister guarantee that this will be closely coordinated with NATO? Shouldn't we, as General-Major-General Cobelens recently argued in NRC, indeed and adopt much harder lick-on-piece policies through a much more assertive attitude? It is important that there are clear legal frameworks for defensive and offensive cyber operations, without our cyber soldiers being tied to their hands and feet. How do we ensure that Defense can not act illegally, but effectively? Do the current legal frameworks offer enough room for real impact? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the SGP, the confrontations with Russia call for a targeted Russia strategy focusing on military relations and cyber warfare, but also on broader economic, political and diplomatic relations with Russia. My question is therefore whether the cabinet sees and considers the need for such a strategy. I would like a response from both ministers. Russia's brutal espionage action, as well as similar actions by other countries, must of course not remain without consequences. Will the government continue to actively seek support for heavier sanctions within the EU? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u37	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was as if we were witnessing a bad version of a James Bond series when we saw how the four people were trying to hack the OPCW Wi-Fi network. That is almost what you would think, if it were not for a gross violation of the integrity of an important international body: the OPCW, the organisation that has to control chemical weapons and their deployment. I ask the ministers whether there have been Russian repercussions since the four people have been evicted by the Netherlands. We know from previous actions that this can lead to counter-actions. Can the Minister say anything about that? Is the disclosure of such espionage actions a tactic that we are going to use more often from now on? It happened for the first time, and rightly so. I support the cabinet in that action, because this was really out of bounds. Was this a one-time thing or is the Minister saying that we could use this more often to scare off the Russians? Can the Minister also say to what extent other countries are trying to break into systems in the Netherlands, such as China or Iran? Does the Minister intend to make such actions public? Is it true that there has already been an attempt to break into the OPCW's systems before the foiled cyber burglary attempt in the parking lot in The Hague from Russia? Have any other hack attempts been made since then? Is it true that the fifth person in the photo taken at Schiphol Airport was an employee of the Russian embassy here in The Hague? What has changed since the hacking attempt in the relationship with Russia and specifically in dealing with the Russian embassy? Does the Minister also declare this Russian cyber action a kind of disguised recognition of Russian involvement in the use of chemical weapons in Syria? Does he see any connection there? Why else would the Russians have done that? The same question may be asked with regard to the investigation into the attack on flight MH17. We now know that Russian spies have tried to obtain information both in the Netherlands and Malaysia. Why would they do that in this way if, according to them, there was no Russian involvement at all in bringing down the MH17? Does the Minister agree with me that this merely underlines the Russian role in this? Mr. Chairman. Then the most important question: what should our reaction be? The European Council has now extended economic and financial sanctions against Russia until July 2019. That is a good thing. We see every reason for this, but what is happening now as a result of these cyber actions? Is this cyber-sanction regime really starting? Does the Foreign Minister see sufficient support for this in the European Union? When does he expect a decision on that point? Finally, I would like to quote from the letter from the Minister of Defence of 19 October, which was sent on this issue: 'The new security context requires a re-examination whereby Europe and the West are better equipped to protect the international legal order by means of means of power and pressure. Our security is paramount (...)" Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with the Minister of Defence, but what does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think about this in the context of the North Stream 2 commercial project? Does the Minister agree with me that the construction of this gas pipeline will not help to equip Europe better to protect the international legal order from economic power and pressure? Does the Minister expect a successful outcome of the consultations between Russia, Ukraine and the EU on the maintenance of gas transit through Ukraine? Finally, Mr President. In spite of everything, we must make it clear to Russia, in word and in action, that the West is not an enemy and wants to be Russia's enemy. But as long as Russia continues to act so recklessly and aggressively, as long as Russia does treat the West as an enemy, there is no other attitude on our part than, together with our allies, to equip us better in order to protect the international legal order. Despite that, I wish everyone a blessed Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u39	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u40	Thank you, Mr President. So close to Christmas, we are holding this debate following a press conference in which revelations were made. The Sunday after that, the Minister of Defense was at WNL on Sunday. There she said, "We're at war with the Russians." That's tough language. Later she nuded this message by saying: "Our intelligence and security services must protect us from cyberattacks of foreign powers." Mr. Chairman. DENK agrees with that. We know the world of espionage mainly from films, secret intrigues, pipe smoking men behind newspapers, double espionage and spectacular exposure. But technology is becoming more sophisticated every day and increasingly used against the civilian population. DENK agrees that we need to arm ourselves against this. DENK also rejects Russia's blatant attempts to undermine international law and its institutions. Excellent that our intelligence services managed with a tip from the British to prevent the OPCW, the UN watchdog in the field of chemical weapons, from being hacked. However, the Russians' way of working reminded us more of the clumsy Johnny English than James Bond. Yet Minister Bijleveld and Mr. Eichelsheim of the STIVD were proud. They were all too happy to show that to Moscow. We were wondering why. All the details of the operation were shown to the press. That's not usually done. Why did STUDY give so much openness and wasn't it handled outside of publicity? Does it have anything to do with the Skripal case, which means the Russians have a feud with the British? Are we not perhaps abused by British intelligence and the British in this case? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of Defense. And what does this mean for the escalation of the West's relations with Russia? Mr. Chairman. Spying is as old as the road to Rome. Western governments, in particular, are rightly accusing Russia and China of hacking. But Western countries do not always have clean hands of their own. For example, American, Israeli, British and Dutch government hackers also regularly broke into the territory of other countries. Then why do we speak proudly when we gather information about other countries, but do we speak of shame when those same countries do so to us? Do we not wash our hands in innocence when we may as well be wrong? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We are not charmed by Russian arrogance, not only by the foiled hack attack on the OPCW in The Hague, but also by other internationally sensitive issues such as annexation of Crimea, the MH17 dossier, the Olympic doping scandal, the presence of Russian troops in the Donbass and the attack on a UN aid convoy in Syria. That list can be made much longer. And although the evidence presented is overwhelming, the Foreign Minister called Lavrov eviction of the four Russian spies in April "a misunderstanding during a routine trip." Among other things, the Netherlands was accused of "megaphone diplomacy" and "organised propaganda." Once again, DENK condemns Russian action and the Russian way of working. My group has only one appeal and one question to the Minister. I would like to say to her: do not just point fingers at Russia, because other countries are doing just as well. The example China has already been cited, but Western countries such as the United States, Israel and so on also do it. The question for the Minister is therefore to condemn it and to make it public when it is necessary. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u41	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u42	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to our security service, a rabid Russian hacking operation was stopped. Targeted and effective action has been taken to prevent a digital break-in at the OPCW and to throw the burglars out of the country, for which the PVV compliments. The facts and backgrounds presented to the public in October were convincing but also very detailed. That's how we saw photos of surveillance cameras, hacking equipment and cell phones. We now also know that Russian spies in the hotel room enjoyed cans of Heinekenbier, which apparently tasted better than Russian vodka. The hacking operation seems pretty amateurish to a lot of people. The taxi receipt is often quoted and also the laptop that was not cleaned after previous operations has been mentioned as an example. Now the question is a bit of a rhetorical question, but I ask him whether that was amateurism or complacency. Maybe it was easy because previous hacking operations weren't disturbed? We all know, I ask the rulers, that hacking operations are the order of the day around the world? In any case, it seems that with the detailed presentation to the outside world by our government of what has been found and found, the Russians have also been put on edge again. Haven't you made them wiser than they should be? I could have imagined you just keeping them, confiscating the equipment, taking a picture of them and the headlines of those Russian spies around the world and saying: they've been grabbed and deported. Then you have achieved the same effect, without all that fuss; it was almost a TV show. The way in which this intelligence operation is conducted externally simply raises questions. Why so elaborate with horns and bells? Are we going to see this more often in the future? The main reason given by the government is that it is consciously chosen to act outside in order to make the international operation of intelligence officers more difficult, but then you do not have to disclose all kinds of details that have now been brought out, I think. During the press conference, the Minister of Defence made it even clearer, because she said: 'By making it public, we think that this type of action can be stopped in the future'. But if that is the main motive, I ask the rulers, why does the government and the services not come out more often with these kinds of findings? In concrete terms, you can also ask the question, and then I come back to a point that has also been mentioned by others, why Chinese hacking operations are not on display, for example. These operations and attacks are often of an economic and military strategic nature. Let's face it: more than 50% of all hacking operations worldwide carry a Chinese signature. However, we do not hear the government talking about this, when we do see that the government has recently brought in the Chinese rulers with a lot of hugs. Let there be no misunderstanding: the PVV believes that there should be no distinction. All hacking operations on Dutch soil or harmful to Dutch interests must of course be tackled. But the question is: does the government share that opinion? Or is hacking an international organization a more serious crime than hacking our industry or armed forces? Is a Russian hack judged differently from a Chinese hack or an Iranian hack? And do we only go out when hackers are physically in the Netherlands or in other situations? Many questions, but one thing is certain: Dutch policy has been changed by the active release of the government in this espionage case. But how and what that means for the future remains the question. We would like to have a little more insight into that. Then there's the data found on one of the laptops. In Malaysia, attempts were made to extract information about the study on flight MH17. My question is: was that indeed just an attempt or was information actually taken by the Russians? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u43	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Then this brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll see if the ministers can answer. Yeah? Suspend for a minute or two minutes? Okay, then we'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u44	I'll give the Secretary of Defense the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Do you think maybe you could lower the speaker chair a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u46	You can do it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u47	Oh, can I do it myself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u48	But I'm happy to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u49	I'd like you to do it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u50	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u51	Yes, thank you! On Friday, April 13th, STUDY has actually been addressed by everyone, and a cyber operation of Russian military intelligence in The Hague has been disrupted. I agree with the compliments that have been given here in the Chamber with regard to the STUDY and the fellow services, which were also involved. This kind of operation of the GROE... because it was a state actor.... must be stopped, especially on Dutch territory. By exposing these undermining activities in detail and also designating the Groe as responsible, the cabinet has sent a clear and clear message. We do not want to tolerate this. By making such operations public, a number of members of your Chamber have also rightly spoken about them. We are working step by step towards the fact that the Netherlands is becoming an increasingly less attractive target for cyber attacks. That is one of the reasons why we have done so so emphatically. Mr. Chairman. I have spoken about it a number of times with Members of the Chamber, including, for example, the annual report of the STUDY: the world's power relations are changing and the events that took place on 13 April are unfortunately not isolated. They are a concrete illustration of how Russia systematically undermines the international security situation and the rule of law and poses a threat to Dutch allies and European interests. The members of the Chamber were informed in detail about Russian political and security policy in the technical briefing on 12 December. Unlike the West, where it is thought in terms of self-determination of countries, Russia thinks in terms of spheres of influence. This poses a serious threat to international stability in general and to NATO alliance in particular. On the eastern flank of the NATO Convention Area there is a build-up of Russian forces, and Russia also regularly conducts large-scale military exercises whose lack of transparency is at odds with international agreements. In recent years, Russia has also shown its willingness to deploy military resources in Georgia, Ukraine and Syria, for example. The illegal annexation of Crimea constitutes a violation of international law and a threat to European and international security architecture. We have also recently seen that these are not incidents with Russian intervention in the Azov Sea. Mr. Chairman. We must therefore take account of the changes in the international security situation after a period of relative stability and predictability in Europe. We cannot afford to be naive about the changing context. Cyber plays an important role in this. Then it is important, as Mr Koopmans rightly said, to put our security first. But it also actually requires that we look at the situation in the world differently. A strong and united NATO, in which all allies stand shoulder to shoulder, offers guarantees of our security as far as we are concerned. I have also been asked a question about this. It is in our interest to involve the US as an ally in the European security context within NATO. This means that we must be a fully-fledged partner in the alliance, including in the field of cyber. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the question of what happened, it is important that we have shown this too. At one of the last NATO meetings, we also explicitly offered our cyber soldiers. I will come back to that in a moment. Then it is important for us to attribute these things when they happen on Dutch territory, precisely because we are committed to protecting such an international alliance that is here. That's our job. It's been an operation under the Wiv. I'll come right back to that. We clearly prevented a hack from being hacked at the OPCW. During that time, the chemical attacks in Syria were investigated and the Skripal case was also central. By bringing it out like this, we have shown that we do not tolerate it here. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the questions of the MPs. I'm just running them by order. In particular, I will answer the questions in the field of intelligence and Mr Blok's questions in the field of foreign policy. I shall begin with Mr Verhoeven's questions. In the debate on STIVD's annual report, we have already mentioned the use of the term 'cyber war'. But I think it is good to say again here in the Chamber that because of the hybrid nature of many conflicts, it is not always clear at what point exactly there is a conflict or war in the traditional sense of the word. Conflicting changes and the digital domain plays a very important role in this. Also in the digital domain, it is not clear when Article 5 will enter into force. This is therefore always a matter of political decision-making and is assessed on a case-by-case basis. Following the Russian hacking attempt on our territory, a discussion began on the changing nature of the conflict. That was on the TV broadcast where I was. That is also what I have said, to which I have referred, and of which we must all be aware as far as I am concerned. I was asked whether Russia's actions in the digital domain could be described as 'cyber war'. I answered that question in the affirmative. I didn't take back any of that, by the way. I know that you did not participate in the debate on the STUDY annual report, but that point has been highlighted. I have indeed answered the question in the affirmative, because you could call it that. Indeed, it is clear that the digital domain is becoming increasingly important during conflicts. Moreover, due to the hybrid nature of many conflicts, it is not always clear at what point exactly there is a conflict or war in the traditional sense of the word. We've already talked about this in detail. I would also like to repeat once again that this does not mean that there is, of course, no war in the classical sense of the word at the moment, but I wanted to achieve what we are doing now, namely a discussion and awareness of the fact that conflict is changing and that the digital domain plays an important role in this. As far as I am concerned, we should still not be naive about this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven also referred to his announced initiative. I look forward to that initiative with interest. Of course, I do not know exactly which points there are. He just said something about that. The cabinet awaits the proposal with interest. We will then, of course, discuss this with the Chamber along the usual route. But since I now have the opportunity, I would like to say something here in the Chamber about the standing cabinet policy regarding the handling by intelligence and security services of unknown vulnerabilities, because that is what I think is partly about. Any unknown vulnerability shall take into account the importance of non-reporting of the vulnerability in the context of national security and the importance to be taken into account by reporting. That consideration is made by the Commission Notifications Vulnerabilities, which is led by the Director-General of the AIVD and the Director of the STUDY. The dg AIVD and the director STIVD inform the minister concerned about their decision. So we too will always look at that. So there are possibilities. I would have liked to have made it quite clear here in the Chamber on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u52	Thank you for the Minister's comments on behalf of the cabinet. My proposal goes beyond the services. I do not need to go into that further now, but since the Minister is bringing it up now, I would like to say that. What the minister says about the services, I know, but it's about the defense and the police. We had a wide-ranging discussion in the Chamber over a year ago about the law that allows the police to be active in this area. D66 has reservations about this, but they do not need to be discussed now. What could be a nice question is the question to the Minister of Defence as to how defence deals with unknown vulnerabilities, because that is the least clear and I am curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u53	Those vulnerabilities are properly discussed and reported, as I just said. When I look and see what's being announced, because it's about the service I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u54	In addition to the Minister's reply, as far as I am concerned, it is not just about the service or the STUDY, but I am also specifically talking about the defence itself in my proposal. Quite little is clear about that. If it is said by the Defense that we want to hack cars, then I assume that we are already considering the possibilities of intercepting certain devices or vehicles on the basis of unknown vulnerabilities, based on the importance of national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u55	We do not say anything about anything we do in the interests of national security, you know that. Incidentally, such a statement 'we want to hack cars' is by no means familiar to me. In the television broadcast I saw, the director of the Defense Cyber Commando said that we have become so dependent on technology that it is possible that cars can be hacked. That's what she said, and that's something other than being said that Defense is going to hack cars. That's totally different. That is not the order of the day either. I shall now turn to the questions that have been asked. I think you're wrong about a statement from the Commodore Boekholt. I will await your law with interest and we will look into it. The cabinet will look at the police and Defense, in fact, at everything in it, and then respond to it, as is the case with an initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u56	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u57	I think that's fine for now and more than enough. That will come naturally from the cabinet, I say to the Minister. When we talk about this kind of thing, both the Minister's statements in a television programme on cyber war and the statements made by a general about the possibility of hacking a car in the future, I do think it is important that there should be proper thought about expressions. It is precisely in these areas that careful communication is crucial. The Minister says that she did not take back any of it, but I did see nuanced comments, which I thought were very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u58	We have already devoted a whole debate to this, which Mr Verhoeven was not present, but I myself have not taken back any of it. That is what I said in that debate. I see some of the people who were there are nodding. Those were the questions that Mr Verhoeven had asked me. Then I will go to Mrs Bruins Slot's questions, and that is a good thing, because she said that we must be over naivety, as I have already said. We need to be more aware of the dangers in this area in the Netherlands. I think that was one of the examples of commodore Boekholt. Mrs. Bruins Slot said there's been spying in our backyard and we need to invest heavily in STUDY and cyber. She asked about the development of a number of measures in the AIV report on digital warfare in 2011. The cabinet at the time took the first steps in 2012 with the Defence Cyber Strategy to implement the AIV opinion, which Mrs Bruins Slot herself mentioned. Steps were then taken for digital warfare, such as the establishment of the Defense Cyber Command and reinforcement of the services. As a cabinet, we are continuing this line with the new Defence Cyber Strategy which, as agreed, has been offered to your Chamber just before the budget. We invest heavily in the capabilities of Defense to act effectively throughout the digital domain. We strengthen the DCC, the STUDY and the defense of our own networks and systems, so defensive and offensive. The strengthening of our digital capabilities and a more active attribution policy........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So in both the National Cyber Security Strategy, which also comes over it as a dome, and in the GBVS. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked when digital action by a state is an act of war. Does war law also apply in the digital domain? The cabinet is ready for this. I think we have already discussed it in other debates, but I will say it again. The current international law, including humanitarian war law, also applies in full to the digital domain. The Netherlands is working internationally to consolidate the application of international law in the digital domain. When an act can be qualified as an armed attack or an act of war, and always remains a political consideration that must be made on a case-by-case basis. Then you asked whether Article 5 could apply in the event of a cyber attack. Article 5 may indeed apply in the event of a cyber attack, but then the decision on a collective NATO response must, as always, take place on the basis of Article 5. And that is always reserved for the highest body of the alliance, the North Atlantic Council, as you know. Thus, even in the digital domain, it is not always clear when Article 5 enters into force. So that remains a subject of political decision-making and is assessed on a case-by-case basis. This also applies if Article 5 of the NATO Treaty is not on the agenda because there is no attack on a NATO Member State. Each UN Member State also has the right to defend itself against an act of war under Article 51 of the UN Charter. I think it's okay to name that here, too. Mrs Bruins Slot herself says that it is unacceptable for the GROE to do something like this and undermine the international legal order. She asks why the four Russian intelligence officers were only escorted out of the country and not arrested. Who made that decision? This was definitely not an investigation. That is also what the general of the STUDY and myself have put forward, including when it comes to making public. It was a counter-intelligence operation, conducted on the basis of the Wiv 2002. On the basis of the information available to us at that time, we decided that the speed of action should be at the top. Indeed, it could not be ruled out that the actions of the information officers of the GROE, state actors, would have very damaging consequences for the OPCW. Some of you have also spoken about this. Disruption was the fastest and most effective way to stop the Russian intelligence operation and protect these interests. Verstorten is also part of the existing modus operandi of intelligence services. So it's an intelligence operation. The decision to disrupt the Russian intelligence operation was taken by the director of STIVD. In the end, the investigation that we have followed has also led to criminal proceedings by the United States in cooperation with the Americans. So that's the way it was chosen, because for us, "to make sure there couldn't be hacked" was at the top. Does STUDY need more powers to hold caught spies or otherwise? That was your follow-up question. As far as I am concerned, they are not necessary, because the STUDY is not an investigative service in that sense and neither is the AIVD in that sense. They therefore also have no authority to hold people. And as far as we're concerned, it should remain that way. In my opinion, the law currently gives STUDY sufficient powers to carry out its tasks. I do not think that enlargement is necessary for the time being either. Nor is it the case that lack of powers was the reason not to arrest. We've really chosen to disrupt because of the speed, and to escort out. The stuff was left behind, and it could have been viewed by us, as you have heard. Some valuable information has been found, some of which we have also made public. Finally, in my view, you asked: what is NATO's relationship to the offensive cyber area? At least those are the questions I have noted, Mr President. In 2016, NATO recognised the cyber domain as a domain of military action. We are now working very hard on the operationalisation of that cyber domain. For example, a mechanism has recently been developed to enable allies to deploy cyber capabilities for NATO missions and operations. And at the NATO summit in 2018, where Mr Blok and I were both present, the Netherlands agreed to contribute to NATO missions and operations where necessary and if possible with cyber capabilities. Mr. Chairman. Then I will go to Mrs Karabulut's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u59	First Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u60	I have another practical question. One of the most important issues in AIV's advice was the need to give practical effect to the application of international law in the digital domain. In fact, the Minister has just said that these rules apply. But, of course, it's the fact that states agree... Mr President, I see non-verbal that the Foreign Minister is going to come back to this, so I will end my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u62	That's right. That is a good non-verbal view by Mrs Bruins Slot: the Minister for Foreign Affairs will deal with that. I had arrived at Mrs Karabulut's, Mr. Chairman. One of her questions was, and that actually fits in with where I left off: have offensive cyber operations already been carried out by the Netherlands? No. You have seen this correctly: so far, the DCC has not carried out any offensive operations. However, in the years it exists, DCC has played a very important role in increasing the digital resilience and alertness of the armed forces, for example also in the Dutch units. Mrs Karabulut then asked whether there could be offensive action outside Rule 100. Well, you know that the military in its entirety, and therefore the DCC, because the Defence Cyber Command is included, can be used to protect the interests of the Kingdom, to protect its own and alliance territory, and to maintain or promote the international legal order. And for the deployment of the Defense Cyber Commando, I have just in the direction of Mrs Bruins Slot, more or less also, the same rules apply as with the deployment of the armed forces. So under no circumstances can the military deploy offensive cyber capabilities outside the existing legal frameworks. If the action takes place during an armed conflict, such as the performance of the defence mission, or when deployed at the request of another country to help defend that country, that action falls within humanitarian war law. And in international missions and operations, the international legal basis determines the powers of action. The powers for the execution of the operations are defined in the mission mandate, and they are then further developed in the Rules of Engagement. Mrs Karabulut also asked whether attribution is possible at all. She actually said: it seems impossible, when I look at the pieces myself. Attribution is not impossible. It's technically very complex. Mrs Karabulut is certainly right about that. But the services invest heavily in this togetherness, so that it is really possible to attribute. Mrs Karabulut had already said that she was pleased with the openness that had been chosen, partly because it concerns the OPCW. She asked: can the Minister give other examples of acts of war against a vital sector, or in the Netherlands or with allies? Not everything can always, as Mrs Karabulut knows, but there are certainly examples of cyber attacks on allies where the authorities of those countries have at least expressed a strong suspicion of Russian action. I can mention a number of them. Estonia did so in 2007. Germany did so in an attack on the Bundestag in 2015. In the United States that was also mentioned today there were attacks on the Democratic Party in 2016. This was done in Norway in 2017. In the Czech Republic, the Minister of Foreign Affairs did the same in 2017. So it is true that it is often said that the Russians are involved in this type of activity. Mrs Karabulut asked what I thought of the article in the Volkskrant in which former MIVD boss Pieter Cobelens was quoted. He said that after a hacking attempt by the Russians, we should just turn off the lights in Russia, in Putin's bathroom and all over Moscow. The question was how do I feel about that? I disagree. I'd like to say that right here. For the Netherlands, it is an international spearhead to achieve worldwide recognition of the fact that international law applies equally to the cyber domain. I just talked about it for a long time. An international mandate and a proportionate use of the military are key elements in this. Then Mrs Karabulut also asked about a Dutch hack in Russia. She asked what we did there. I will have to answer that more often, namely that we do not make public statements about ongoing operations by the AIVD, or the STUDY in this case. You can rest assured that our services work within the framework of the Intelligence and Security Services Act and that what we do is permitted. Mr. Chairman. I am already with Mr Van Ojik, who has asked me one or two questions. There's gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u63	I'll try to figure it out in one question. The Minister states that she does not distance herself from her earlier statements that we are in cyber war with Russia, but at the same time said that we are not at war with Russia. Can the Minister confirm that again? Because if the Minister were to insist that we are in cyber war with Russia, I wonder how we have been informed about it. Because we're not. My second question has to do with this. The Minister said earlier that cyber operations can also be carried out outside Article 100, but I understood from her reply just now that this is not the case. Can she clarify this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u64	I'll start with the first question. Indeed, I have not distanced myself from what I have said. Mrs Karabulut was indeed present at the debate on the STUDY annual report, so she recognizes this. I have just said, at the very beginning of my story, that there is no war in the classical sense of the word at the moment. I've been trying to get us to leave the naivety. You have your comments on this, of course, but we need to raise awareness. It is important that we all see that the nature of conflict in the world is changing. I have made that combination, as I have just said in my reply. As I indicated in the answer to a question from Mrs Bruins Slot, offensive cyber capabilities can be deployed in military operations, whether or not in support of conventional military capabilities. That commitment will then fall entirely under the relevant mission mandate. So it could be in there. I also mention the current instructions on violence, the rules of engagement. That's what I just reported. The legal frameworks are no different from those for the use of conventional means. The existing rules of international law apply. They will also be explained by us. In such a case, there will always be a trade-off. I think that's what we have to say now. I have nothing to add to what I have just explained. And that will always be done under the mandate of the CDS. You will be informed of this, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u65	Do I understand that the Minister says that there is no need for new or wider rules and that, in accordance with Article 100 and the applicable international legal framework, we will be informed as offensive actions or will be applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u66	I am indeed saying that we are applying the current international legal framework. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will address the questions on the wider regulatory framework which Mrs Bruins Slot has just referred to. I explained how we would operate if we were deployed. This is covered by the frameworks you are familiar with. We do not use them differently than conventional use. So that all falls under the control of the CDS. You will be informed about this, as you will be informed about it in the conventional sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u67	Mr President, may I ask another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u69	I really like that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u70	I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u71	I am pleased that the Minister has renounced the statements of the former MIVD who wants to shut down the whole of Moscow. Imagine we'd end up in a world like this! We don't want to. That's what we want to avoid. I asked about the involvement of Dutch hacks in Russia revealed in the newspaper to help the Americans. There are previous examples that information is collected by STUDY, that it is shared with, for example, the Americans and that it is then used for other purposes, for example for target killings. How will we be informed about this? Truly applause that when we catch the Russians, we reveal it. But I also want to know when the information we collect is shared with the Americans for certain purposes, especially when they use it for other purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u72	As you know, our services work entirely under the Wiv and we have agreed procedures for informing the Chamber. It runs through the CIVD. That's what I can say about it. I can't make it prettier. You will not be publicly informed about ongoing operations of the AIVD and STUDY. You can count on us working under the Wiv. There are rules for that and there is a supervisory regime. You know all that. We will discuss this further and answer to the Chamber in the CIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u73	This is, of course, extremely problematic for me as a representative of the people, especially when I hear through good journalism and research work that information is being shared with allies, who are then used by those allies for target killings involving civilian casualties. I hope we can discuss this further. I would like to ask whether the Minister can judge cyber operations such as interference in elections but also cyber operations of, for example, allies, the Americans, as revealed by Edward Snowden. Does the Minister reject them as well as the Russian operations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u74	I just can't make it prettier for Mrs. Karabulut. We don't say anything about services operations in public. Impacting electoral processes must not be done by anyone. That's totally clear. As a government, I think we are always ready to do so. I've been there. I'm almost at the end of the questions that have been asked to me. Mr van Ojik asked, following Mrs Bruins Slot, whether the DCC was able to carry out its duties. What can they do? Defense has established the Defense Cyber Command for a reason. It does exist since September 2014. I just said that in response to a question from Mrs Bruins Slot. The cabinet expects the whole cyber aspect to be an increasingly prominent part of a future conflict. It is not for nothing that we eventually also made public what happened here hopefully increased awareness in its totality among the Dutch population. It is important to work on a fully deployable DCC. That is now being worked on step by step. We will invest extra in digital security from 2019 onwards, part of which is for the DCC. The DCC is committed to human expansion in order to increase employability. I heard a number of members of the Chamber say that this was not the case, but the NATO plan does include attention to cyber, precisely because the nature of warfare changes. In-depth knowledge is essential to be fully successful in the digital domain. You're dealing with scarce specialists in the labour market. It's not obvious that they're all just gonna come and work for the Department of Defense. But General Boekholt is trying very hard to achieve that. In the Defence Cyber Strategy, I have clearly indicated how we intend to strengthen these cyber capabilities in the future. Mr Van Ojik asked about the division of labour between the departments. The division of tasks between the two departments is indicated in the Wiv. During this operation, there was an intervention of a Russian military intelligence service. So performance by the STUDY was obvious in this case. This is how the tasks are divided. These services always align their actions. You can count on it. There is certainly also a simple cooperation on the cyber domain. Mrs Ploumen asked, in addition to Mr Van Ojik, whether there is sufficient investment in digital resilience. I have just explained to Mr Van Ojik that we are investing extra in this. We invest EUR 95 million structurally in digital security. 20 million of these are for the defense. We have created a Dutch cybersecurity agenda and a Defence Cyber Strategy. As I know, we have a debate on this on 16 January. Then there are Mr Voordewind's questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u75	Maybe we should talk about that cyber command after all. That article has just been discussed. I think it was in NRC Handelsblad, but well, that doesn't really matter. Actually, I'm sure it is for NRC. The meaning of that piece was actually: we expected much more of it. When it was launched in 2014 by the minister's predecessor, the idea was that it would intervene independently and that it would have a real impact on cyber ground. There would be 200 people working, with a big budget. But none of that has happened yet. That's basically the point, when you read that piece. Is that something the minister recognizes or says "that's not true at all, we're well on schedule"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u76	I'm telling you, I don't know exactly what starting schedule started. I can't explain that for a moment, but I have looked at how things have been since 2014. I've been looking into it for the Defense Cyber Strategy and we're gonna talk about it. I think that there have been major steps in recent times, also because this cabinet is investing a lot more in the cyber side. We are doing this precisely because we see that warfare is becoming much more hybrid. You can also see that there is more attention to it in NATO. You can see, for example, that one of the PESCO projects is meant to see how to work better together in the field of cyber. There's Estonia in the lead. I do believe that great steps are being taken. To create the Defense Cyber Strategy, I put together a whole group of people and asked them: what do you really expect from the performance of Defense? The commander of the Defense Cyber Command was also very present. In fact, we organized it there. Then you see that great steps have been taken. I think there's about 80 to 100 people at work right now. It might have been more, but we're looking very strongly for new people. We're trying to make cooperation agreements with companies. You can see that Dutch companies, as well as other government agencies, have a very strong expectation of Defence, because they want Defence to do a number of things, both defensive and offensive. I am actually moderately positive about the steps that have been taken. The fact that more needs to be done is clear. Not for nothing we're talking about this today. It is not for nothing that the cabinet has also explicitly opted for additional investments in the field of cyber in the NATO plan. So I'm a little more positive than Mr Van Ojik. Maybe because we're almost at Christmas, Mr. Chairman! I've heard a lot of MPs about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u77	That is said by everyone, but in the meantime there is a normal debate with each other. Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u78	Is one of the problems with this point, which Mr Van Ojik quite rightly points out, not that it is much more interesting to work as a cyber soldier at the Military Intelligence and Security Service, because you are allowed to work in practice? In the Defense Cyber Command, you're actually only in practice scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u79	That might be one of the points. Of course, there is very strong cooperation between the STUDY and the DCC, but it might well be one of the points. I don't know if it's really the biggest point, because it's obviously hard to find this type of specialists anyway. At the STIVD, and by the way also at the AIVD, we manage to find those people. So we can see what's behind it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u80	To make a comparison with conventional military...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u81	Conventional or confessional?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u82	The Minister has doubts between confessional or conventional, but these are really two different concepts. Let's just get a normal infantryman. He can just shoot. He's just allowed to act offensively. So far, the DCC's cyber-soldiers have only been allowed to collect. I can imagine that they will work with the Military Intelligence and Security Service, because they can actually actively do something about our security, rather than performing serious gaming and practice scenarios. How can the Minister change that in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u83	I think we might be able to talk a little longer about this point in the Defence Cyber Strategy, because I do not know if this debate is best suited for that. They have also been working to increase the resilience across the entire range of the armed forces. So it's more than you mention. But the fact that we will have to look at this differently in the future is clear to me as well. It seems to me to be a typical subject that we can discuss further in the debate on the cyber strategy. Mr. Chairman. I have arrived at Mr Voordewind, who asked whether there are other countries that are breaking into Dutch systems. Mr Voordewind will not be surprised, but I cannot say anything about this in public, as will the Russian repercussions on the OPCW hacking attempt. It is true, however, that in the Cybersecurity image of the Netherlands, which you received from JenV's office, and the annual reports of the services of course mention the growing threat of state actors. Both Russia and China are mentioned in the digital domain. These are also the two actors that pose the greatest threat. Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Stoffer would have asked the same type of question as had already been asked about the legal frameworks that exist. It's clear. The armed forces, including the DCC, can be deployed exactly as we do otherwise, under the rules in force. I do not think I need to say anything more about this than I just did. Unfortunately, I cannot answer Mr Van Roon's question in public either. We cannot say anything more about the MH17 investigation in public than we have already done. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the end of my term. I would like to conclude by saying that I would like to pass on the compliments that have been expressed by the Chamber to all the people of the various services who have worked together on this disruption operation at the OPCW, and that it has been extremely important that this has been done so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u84	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has just indicated...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u86	It's from the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u87	... of Defence has just indicated I have also just indicated things, but that was in previous debates... Russia's cyber operation that is the reason for this debate is not in itself. We are dealing with a deteriorating security situation and very assertive action by Russia and, by the way, a number of other countries. This has direct consequences for Dutch security. The first implication is that the Netherlands, together with our allies, must adapt both at European level and at NATO level and ensure their own resilience. Against this background, the cabinet has also announced the necessary measures. Further on, I will deal with the questions that have been raised. I'll divide my answers further along the next line. Questions that have been asked about cyber diplomacy and cybersanctions; relations with Russia and a number of separate topics. But first, the questions that have been asked about cyber diplomacy and cybersanctions. Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Bruins Slot asked what state the cybersanction regime is currently in. The Netherlands is committed to a sanction regime within the European Union with a number of other countries and the European Council has instructed the Commission to further develop it. It is a regime that is not aimed at specific countries in advance; it may also concern individuals. At present, this is taking place in Brussels. The Netherlands also plays an active role in this. We hope that that sanction regime will come into force in the first half of 2019. It will require unanimity. Once it is in force, individuals or countries can also be listed. It was also Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Bruins Slot who asked whether it was time to create an additional international treaty framework for cybersecurity and cyber attacks. That question has been raised in several places. There is already international regulation on the proper movement of goods between different countries. The suggestion that there would be no regulation is, in itself, incorrect and also undesirable. This suggestion is also welcome by countries that are guilty of undesirable practices. It is therefore very important that we first of all recognise that the existing law, the existing international law, applies to cyberspace as it applies elsewhere and that there is no legitimacy for doing cyber operations by suggesting that there would be no right. The question of negotiating further implementation may also be prompted by the desire to suggest that there would be no right. I am not suggesting that that would be Mr Verhoeven's or Mrs Bruins Slot's question, but we must keep in mind that the Dutch position is not for nothing that there is international law, that that is also in force in cyberspace and that there is no need for additional negotiation. However, I agree with the two questioners that it is very important that the rules of law that are already in place are respected and that we should take care of them together, Mrs Bruins Slot also pointed out to the Tallinn Manual that there are practical tools for how to apply which rule of law is best applied in a specific situation. Against this background, when it comes to implementation, the Netherlands does indeed see an important role for itself. We're playing them, too. I myself addressed a conference on the Tallinn Manual not so long ago here in The Hague. But we should not go along with a suggestion that there would be no law at all. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked about cyber diplomacy. That is one of the key points the Cabinet has highlighted in the Integrated Foreign and Security Strategy, because at that time, too, we saw an increasing threat before this OPCW hack. This means that we ensure that the knowledge of our diplomats in the field of cybersecurity is increased at all. We ensure that in the end there is someone present at every post who is well aware of both cyber threats and the international legal framework within which to work. In addition, in the coming years, we will ensure that specific cyber expertise will be present at the posts in Geneva, Moscow, Beijing, Washington, Brussels and Singapore. What do they do, then, was Mrs Bruins Slot's follow-up question. That is a combination of operationalising the actions that are possible, diplomatic actions, but also legal actions. That's in line with that Tallinn Manual. It is very important that we do this together with countries that feel the same way about it and that we try to get countries that do not yet have that on our side. We are, of course, also committed to implementing international law and reducing the threat that can be posed by both state actors and criminal actors. For this we also organise international meetings, such as the Global Forum on Cyber Expertise. Mr Van Ojik asked if it attribute...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u88	Before you continue, Mrs. Bruins Slot would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u89	I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive paper on the applicability of international law in the digital domain. It is indeed a question of practical application. This is also in line with the CDA's argument. The question I asked is: have we written that down enough for ourselves in the Netherlands? How do we see this interpretation? Are we, for example, totally and completely in agreement with all the points of the Tallinn Manual?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u90	We certainly have that in mind. Should I understand Mrs Bruins' question in such a way that she asks: do you want to share it with the Chamber? For this part, the application of the existing right to cyber attacks, I do not, of course, have any objection to this. If that is what Mrs Bruins wants, we will provide it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u91	The Minister says: 'the application of existing law'. If I interpret narrowly what the Minister says to me, it would actually describe which rules of law apply. But, of course, it's about the practical effects. What borders does the Netherlands itself set? When do we find a digital attack disruptive? When do we say that a digital attack is also an act of war? What framework of consideration do we have? So how exactly do we do the attribution? I ask this clearly because it seems to me that what the Minister says is a narrow interpretation. And I strongly ask for a broad interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u92	I don't want to be in a discussion about narrow and broad. I would like to say that I am willing to share with you how the Netherlands handles this. I am doing this on behalf of Mr Bijleveld. This is indeed the type of question that Mrs Bruins Slot refers to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u93	Thank you for that commitment. At what time could that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u94	This isn't a matter of "just for a week." I really want to do this carefully. I would like to undertake to send this to the Chamber in the first half of 2019. Mr Van Ojik asked if we would be more open-minded. The annual reports of the intelligence services have, of course, indicated earlier that the services have found that there is an undesirable cyber activity, including by the Russian Federation, China and North Korea. Whether we will specifically attribute an action from one of these countries, or from another, we will, of course, weigh on a case-by-case basis. The disclosure of what you know and what you don't know is of course not without interest for the state that takes those actions. Now we were able to give a big hit on the fingers by announcing this operation. It may be that in another case, precisely the importance of better combating this type of operation implies that you do not disclose the specific operation, but you must once again limit yourself to announcing in the annual report that there are activities. So this is really a matter of customization, from the point of view of combating this activity effectively. I come to the questions that have been asked about relations with Russia. Mr Van Ojik asked whether we have also raised this hack with the OSCE and in other international fora. That is indeed the case. Both in the OSCE and in the UN Security Council and, of course, in the OPCW, because the latter was the target of these actions. Mrs Ploumen asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u95	I'm still interested in the OSCE. That's where cybersecurity is a priority, if I understand correctly. That's where you sit with the Russians at the table. That can be an advantage, but that can also be a disadvantage. I have seen in the documents that there are sometimes confidence-building measures that we should take in this area. That's what I'm here for. But it's also complicated, because you might share information... Well, I think the Minister understands where I'm going. Is this a good forum to discuss it? Or does the Minister say that I would rather be very careful with the OSCE, because the Russians are there? I wonder how that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u96	The Minister himself can answer; you will fill it out for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u97	My answer is complete: this is a good forum. I agree with Mr Van Ojik that it has great value in itself that we have, alongside the UN, a consultation forum where Russia is at the table. But such a consultative forum would not work if you did not also raise issues that cannot be accepted. Of course, that shouldn't be your only agenda. I shall now turn to Mrs Ploumen's question as to what this broader dialogue looks like. So you are also knowingly looking in the OSCE for points on which we can reach agreement. The OSCE is also active in areas such as economic cooperation and even environmental cooperation. We are very much looking for a broad agenda there, but we also clearly identify what is wrong. That is the bridge to Mrs Ploumen's question as to how we are going to respond, even after these Russian actions, to the combination of pressure and dialogue. Our line remains to allow things to happen where we can find each other, such as economic relations, cultural relations and exchanges of students or scientists, just as our diplomatic channels are open. I myself occasionally speak to my colleague, Mr Lavrov, at international meetings. Of course you make sure that those lines are open and that that does not only consist of words but also brings with it a broader connection. But that also includes the fact that things like this, and in the relationship with Russia, unfortunately, there are a lot more, such as the actions in Ukraine or Syria, that must be clear what we find unacceptable. Unfortunately, we have had to announce recently that the Netherlands also notes that Russia is violating the INF Convention. Very worrying, but then we have to be very clear about that. But, again, that does not mean that we say: and now there can be no more trade or normal diplomatic movement. Indeed, membership of the UN VR contributes to this. On the one hand, because, with the successes that we have fortunately achieved, we are able to reach out to all members of the Security Council, including Russia, in advance to ensure that we are able to achieve success. At the same time, unfortunately, we still have important issues, in particular Syria but also in other areas, where we are looking for these contacts in advance, but unfortunately we have to note that this does not lead to conclusions and resolutions that are really a step forward in the Security Council. Here too, the fact that you are a member of the Security Council means that you encounter each other more often and in other places than when you are not a member. Mrs Ploumen, of course, knows from her own experience that this will give me, Mr Kaag and the Prime Minister, the opportunity to speak to the Russian Federation in other places, as well as other countries, about matters that we consider important. That is what we have done. Part of it was in public. After Russia's liability because of the use of the Buk in the attack on the MH17, I also flew directly to the UN to make use of membership, in order to raise the issue there as well. Mr Voordewind asked if there were any Russian counter-reactions after the failure of the operation in The Hague. The counter-reaction was the summoning of our ambassador. There have been no other counter-reactions. Mr Voordewind also asked if there was any connection between espionage regarding the MH17 and the operation here. It was already clear to the Netherlands that there is Russian involvement in the shooting of the MH17, because we had already held Russia liable before the OPCW-hack took place and so we also had the additional information about the attempts to get MH17 information. So this hasn't changed our image. Mr. Chairman. Then I move from the relationship with Russia to a number of other questions. Mr Koopmans asked whether the Brexit had any impact on security cooperation. The withdrawal agreement before us has made the right arrangements. There are many reasons to sincerely hope that the United Kingdom will agree to the withdrawal agreement, but security cooperation is certainly not the least important. I can't speculate about what happens if we're dealing with a hard Brexit. After the recess, we're gonna talk extensively about the scenarios before that. Mrs Ploumen asked about the reports that came out this afternoon, how the Netherlands responds to the news from the US and the United Kingdom that China has been involved in a hack in recent years. We express political support for the information and opinion that both countries have brought out. It is not that I can share information with the Chamber about these specific activities in the Netherlands. Again, telling what you do and what you don't know is also of value to other countries. So I cannot give more information on this than to express political support for the information that has come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u98	Last question, Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u99	The Americans do. On the site of the BBC, if that information is correct, it is stated that the Netherlands was also attacked by this collective of hackers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u100	But that doesn't change what I just gave you: providing information about what we know or don't know about other services is extremely interesting for those other services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u101	Mrs. Bruins Slot, I can see you having second thoughts. But it seems that we have the Christmas feeling, so you can go again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u102	And because of the Christmas spirit, I have to keep it very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u103	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u104	Is the US's claim that this also attacked the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u105	The Chinese will now want to know with great interest what I'm going to answer. The answer is I'm not going to give you any information about that. But I suppose Mrs Bruins Slot also knows very well why I give the answer I give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u106	Please continue. You're looking at Mrs Karabulut to see if she has another question for you. No? I'm withdrawing it, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u107	Then Mrs Ploumen asked whether the US is still an ally. It is certainly the case, as we have often discussed in the Chamber, that the Netherlands deplores a number of decisions on the part of the current American government: the withdrawal of the climate agreement, the move from the embassy to Jerusalem, the withdrawal of the nuclear agreement with Iran, the trade conflicts that caused the explosion. But that does not lead to the conclusion that the US is not an ally. The US is one of our most important allies for very current but also for historical reasons. They are one of the largest democratic states in the world and a major partner in our collective defence. The Netherlands, NATO would not be able to defend itself properly without the role of the United States. Although we have conflicts or at least a discussion about free trade, we absolutely believe in the great value of a free market economy. Although we do not always agree on the role to be played by the United Nations or other multilateral organisations, we are on the side of those countries that say that international law is above the private interests of countries. International cooperation is very important. So there's still a lot more that binds us than separates us. In response to the letter on defence expenditure, which I believe we are going to discuss in detail, Mrs Ploumen asked why the cabinet is not making statements on the OS standard. We made a huge extra investment in OS in the coalition agreement. There is no doubt that this budget is very substantial. It is not the case that we repeat this in every debate or letter, but that does not alter the fact that this is happening. Then Mr Voordewind asked two more questions about Nord Stream. I believe that the House would like to have a separate debate on this too. I sent a letter to the Chamber about this last week. So I would like to have that debate, but bearing in mind the question of keeping it short now, I suggest that we do so at the time when the Chamber plans it in January. Then I hope I have answered the questions in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u108	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u109	I really waited but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u110	Yeah, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u111	...I wanted one more opinion from the Minister. We rightly speak of shame of Russian and Chinese espionage, but the biggest hackers, spies in this matter may be the Americans. Through Edward Snowden's revelations, we know that a large-scale spy has been carried out in the UN, in the Energy Atomic Energy Community, in the EU, and that even Chancellor Merkel has been bugged. Does the Minister believe that these espionage practices are equally shameful?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u112	If the Netherlands is confronted with espionage activities of a friendly country or an ally on our territory, we are in no uncertain terms expressing our disagreement with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u113	The examples I have just mentioned are very serious and very far-reaching. Does the Minister think that this is as shameful as the Russian, Chinese or whatever espionage? He can choose his own words. Does the Minister see that this type of espionage is increasing? And what de-escalation possibilities does the Minister see?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u114	That's another question. To answer the first question: if there are espionage activities on our territory, by anyone, we will address those involved. For example, Mrs Karabulut pointed to Germany. I believe that the German side also gave a clear response at that time. They will react as we would if that were the case with us. Is there an increase? This is an area in which no public statistics are known. As the Minister of Defence rightly said, the Netherlands simply has the Intelligence and Security Services Act, which determines how, in the interests of our own security, we are dealing with information gathering in this country because I am the Minister of this country. That is not prohibited in itself. We do so here under the proper supervision of the Supervisory Committee of the Intelligence and Security Services and the Intelligence and Security Services Committee, which is a part of your Chamber. That can't be a surprise. If it is mirrored in our terrain, then we react clearly to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u115	But the fact that it is not prohibited does not make it desirable. We are discussing the Russian espionage case here, because it is shameful and because it is not allowed. So we want Russia, China and other countries not to do so. Then I don't understand why we would do the same. The Minister does not want to talk about this, but we have some examples from the past, such as the involvement in the US operation towards the Russians, where the Netherlands has also hacked. Fortunately, the Minister acknowledges that it is not just those countries that we like to talk about, but that they are allies as well. Then my follow-up question would be: if the Minister really wants us to prevent this in the future, as well as escalation, what steps does he intend to take in the international context with all those involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u116	The Netherlands has a law on intelligence and security services. It has adopted this Chamber and has rightly indicated that it considers it important that the Netherlands collect information in defence of our own security. Other countries do, too. I leave it to their parliaments to decide how to frame it. Moreover, I believe that there is an explicit difference between democratic states of law and countries that are not, and the Russian Federation falls within that category. I want to make that distinction in general. How other countries implement their laws, if they are democratic states of law, is further up to them. If there are activities on our territory, even if that is another democratic rule of law, then we are saying in no uncertain terms that we do not think that is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u117	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u118	Mr President, thank you. I'll file my motion first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there has been a worldwide increase in cyber attacks by state actors, such as the WannaCry and NotPetya attacks;]] [[Whereas such attacks may affect critical civilian infrastructure, harm the democratic rule of law or be used by cybercriminals for cybercrime;]] [[whereas the Talinn Manual sees digital warfare as a non-binding legal investigation on the functioning of international law on cyber conflicts and cyber warfare;]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative to reach international agreement on the practical application of existing international law to the digital domain and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u119	Then I would like to thank you for your answer. By the way, I've been looking into the specific statement made by a defence officer. I quote: "An ordinary example would be to manipulate the speedometer of a vehicle." Then you did not say that you want to hack cars, but then you also show very clearly that you really want to do something in that area. Let's communicate carefully, and I'll do that from now on, and pay attention, because this isn't nothing. It's all gonna happen. In a few years' time, it's really gonna be on the agenda of the day that this happens, and I want to get a grip on that. I will come back to that with my note. Finally, the Christmas spirit. In such a year, a number of things always go wrong and sometimes you have to correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u120	I'm all set.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u121	One of the things I'd like to put right is this. There was once an initiative paper from Mr Koopmans, whom I met here today, and D66 voted against it by mistake, although there are good elements in it. I would like to stress once again that this will be different next year and that we will be more careful when we vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u122	That sounds good. That's also in the Acts, Mr. Koopmans, so he can't come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u123	This concludes my contribution and that of my party to the parliamentary year 2018, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u124	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. Then I'll go to Mrs. Bruins Slot, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u125	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the CDA, I would like to express my appreciation for the work of the staff of the two intelligence services. They keep our society safe and we never really see the result of their work, except on October 4th, when we had the presentation. It's good to emphasize that. I am satisfied with the answers given by the two leaders. There are a number of areas where real action has been taken, including cyber sanctions. Meanwhile, the Minister of Defense has also created a Defence Cyber Strategy. That is true, but we will come back to that in another debate: how do we ensure that we can also use our cyber soldiers within the right framework offensive? 'Cause I don't know any other weapon system where you're just being defensive. If you don't master the offensive well, you're lagging behind at some point. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the analysis that the Minister is going to send on the Dutch translation of the Tallinn Manual, on how it will be applied in practice and what that means, for example, for certain considerations. The last one, Mr. Chairman. I will not go into the questions that Mrs Ploumen asked about China. The minister is, I think, cryptic for some reason. I'm gonna keep a close eye on the news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u126	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u127	Mr. Chairman. You look at me like this, but I just wanted to thank you and thank the ministers for their reply and wish everyone a nice Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u128	That's very nice and very nice, Mr. Koopmans. Thank you. I thought Mrs Karabulut was going to interrupt you, but that is not the case. Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u129	Well, Mr. Chairman, by the end of the year as well... This year I have tabled wonderful motions with Mr Verhoeven. So I thought, let's also close this year with a joint motion. And that reads as follows. I see the minister looking a bit, like "what's this going to be" but that becomes clear in the operative part. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands, the EU and Russia benefit from good economic and political relations but that these relations are currently under pressure;]] [[whereas clarity on how the Netherlands and the EU respond to changing relations with Russia is of great importance;]] [[Whereas this requires an up-to-date, integrated and future-proof strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a strategy for Russia and submit it to the Chamber in spring 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u130	And, Mr President, I also want to wish everyone a happy Christmas and a happy anniversary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u131	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I shall now turn to Mr Voordewind. No? Then I look at Mr Kuzu. No, I didn't. Mr. De Roon? No, I didn't. I'll see if the ministers can respond. Two motions have been tabled. One more will be handed over from Mr Stoffer. I don't know why it's so fast. Something about Christmas, I understand. I shall give the floor to the Secretary of Defense first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u132	Mr. Chairman. I have now agreed with my Foreign Minister so that we can both say 'Merry Christmas' in this Chamber and both take one motion. Since it will be handed over to Russia, Mr Blok will take care of it. Indeed, it's always nice if you can work towards a rest period. I would like to say this again: for our men and women who operate all over the world, it is not always self-evident that they can do so with the home front. But here again I would like to say that from this place I also think of them and wish them a Merry Christmas and a good new year. The judgment on the motion in part No. 35 leave the cabinet to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u133	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the motion for a resolution on item No. 36, which asks for a Russia strategy to be drawn up. It calls for such a strategy to be presented to the Chamber in spring 2019. I would like to ask the Chamber to leave out "in the spring." Because I understand the wish, but if we work out such a strategy carefully... A China strategy is also under way. It will come in the spring of 2019. We could have considerably more time for that. If it can be changed to "in 2019," I can leave it to the Court's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u135	That is certainly possible, because that'spring' was an addition by Mr Verhoeven!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u136	But within the year, I think we can live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u137	The Stoffer/Verhoeven motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands, the EU and Russia benefit from good economic and political relations but that these relations are currently under pressure;]] [[whereas clarity on how the Netherlands and the EU respond to changing relations with Russia is of great importance;]] [[Whereas this requires an up-to-date, integrated and future-proof strategy;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a strategy for Russia and submit it to the Chamber in 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 36 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u138	This interpretation of the Christmas spirit is also possible! For my part, I don't want to lose the joy of celebrating by wishing everyone a very good Christmas and above all a quiet 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-20-tweedekamer-33.u140	That concludes this debate. On the motions tabled, we will vote around a quarter to eight.
