ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the first term of office. I would therefore like first of all to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State and, of course, everyone who is following this debate with great interest. It concerns the budget of the Interior, the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all the spokesmen for their questions and input into the first term. Raymond Knops and I listened very carefully to you all, not in this room, but in another room. That was a bit unorthodox, but you know me a little bit, and I do like unorthodox solutions, although of course I would have given you the stage here in plenary. But I'm sure all the spokesmen will make up for that in second term. Mr. Chairman. In my answer, I actually make a distinction between two large parts. The first part consists of everything that has to do with the protection of the democratic rule of law. For example, it concerns the mayors, their role and support, undermining, security and disinformation. That's actually one chunk of the answer. The other part consists of public administration and democracy, for which much attention has been paid in the first term of office. This concerns, for example, administrative differentiation, local democracy, support and that sort of thing. Finally, of course, there is the inevitable other part. Mr. Chairman. I will start with that important part about protecting the democratic rule of law. On my own responsibility as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I consider that to be very important. Everyone has paid attention to this issue in the first place. Last Sunday there were many of us in Haarlem. There were also members of the Chamber. I've been there, too. The Grand Place in Haarlem was full of people. It was beautiful to see. There were people with banners. A4s were handed out, saying, "Dear Mayor, Haarlem is behind you." It was a statement of support from the people of Haarlem to their mayor, Jos Wienen. It was people who went out on the streets, the Grand Place in this case, to express the fact that it is unacceptable that in a democratic rule of law a mayor is threatened so seriously that Jos Wienen has had to go into hiding. That was exactly the signal I wanted to send on behalf of the cabinet by being there: hands off Jos Wienen. In fact, we say: hands off all the mayors in the Netherlands, all the aldermen, MPs, provincial directors, anyone who does his job in such a public office and has to be able to do his job, for all of us. I speak a lot of mayors and others, and when you hear the stories, you know how urgent this theme is. Then you know something has to happen. It has a huge impact. It has a personal impact on those who are threatened or intimidated, and thus also political impact. But it also has an impact on the people, not only on that one person, but also on his or her family and family and the whole environment. This is an unacceptable form of influence, which we really must oppose. It really worries me, because it is people who are the backbone of our democracy. And they know what they're talking about. These are not abstract problems; they are very concrete problems that they face every day. It's not a policy, it's just reality. That is why I was very pleased that there was a great deal of attention on the part of the House. A number of questions have also been asked. I wanted to answer that right away. Many, including Mr Middendorp, Mrs Özütok, Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Van der Graaf, were all talking about the role of the mayor in various ways. Did the mayor get too much exposure? Can the shoulders of the mayors actually bear this responsibility? I think it is true that the responsibilities of mayors have increased in recent decades. The tasks and powers have been extended. Well, that's understandable, too. I think the social problems have also changed. The complexity is great. The intertwinedness between all kinds of different aspects is great. That raises questions about the task and role of the mayors. It also places great demands on those who wish to hold this office. So I very much recognize the tension that has been brought about by the aforementioned MPs and other MPs. I take it very seriously, too. I think we all know that this is also the subject of discussion among mayors. You can also look at it differently. Where one chooses to be a crimefighter, the other chooses a different approach. There's that room. I think that to some extent its implementation is a personal interpretation of mayors. There's room for that and that's possible, because they operate in their responsibility in a triangle with the D.A. and the police. But it should not be about the support they can get, about the enforcement capacity and about the deployment of police and prosecutors. Of course, my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, has all that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u3	I think this is a good point for Mr Van Raak of the SP to place an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u4	In the first term, I congratulated the Minister for being present and for being proud to see how in Haarlem the citizens show that the bad guys are not the boss there. Of course, the position of the mayor started with dualisation at the beginning of this century, when the position of the mayor changed and at the same time became a crimfighter. But you can also see that there are more and more administrative measures to be taken through the mayor instead of criminal law. According to the Minister, does that have any effect? The mayor needs to take much more administrative measures and that also makes his position more vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u5	Yes, that is indeed part of the debate that is and must be held on this subject. It is actually two things, if I may add one more aspect. Then I come to Mr Van Raak's point. The mayor is a very visible figure in the municipality. It's always been that way. It is more visible than the other two legs of the triangle. The mayor is always resident in the municipality and as a citizen's father or mother is the figurehead and therefore visible. This makes the mayor even more vulnerable when it comes to fighting crime and getting it into the line of fire. The mayor himself doesn't carry out any criminal duties. It is indeed about the administrative resources, as Mr Van Raak rightly points out, and the mayor's commitment to public order and security, but that can be very close to those other aspects. That could be about the use of the Bibob, the closure of homes, land bans and location bans. Those are the things the mayor decides. These are often very important, and perhaps even indispensable, powers that the mayor has in dealing with crime. Nevertheless, there is, of course, a choice, and I think it is very important that mayors say that there is a good balance in the triangle between who is actually going to stand for what and that that is a conscious choice. And if that happens and it is the mayor, because of an administrative authority, then he must be supported by the other two legs in the triangle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u6	Certainly, but the discussion about the mayor, his vulnerability and the tasks he has is about to start, and I do see a contradiction here between the citizen's father and the crime fighter. The Minister will undoubtedly start to think about this and there will undoubtedly be a piece, a vision or an idea somewhere. Can the Minister take into account that it has ever been decided to place the administrative tasks of the mayor and the administrative measures that the mayor must take with the mayor, but that they can also be invested elsewhere? You can also have criminal responsibilities instead of all those administrative measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u7	Yeah, sure, and that thinking is going on; that's already started. It might also be good to point out that the Minister of JenV recently asked the Council of State for information on how municipalities in this changing society that we are all dealing with and, in view of the existing division of powers, can properly fulfil their administrative role in tackling undermining. That's what Grapperhaus and I are talking about with mayors. If there is information from the Council of State, then I think it would be a good time to resume the discussion with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u8	D66 is also deeply concerned about the threats to our mayors and aldermen. Of course, there is now a 100 million undermining fund. In any case, we are very curious as to how this will be implemented from the Home Affairs side. You have announced other measures, such as the Weather Management Network. In my contribution last Tuesday, I asked in particular whether the Minister is prepared to investigate the motives of the operators in the country. If we have a little answer to our questions about this, we can also look for durable solutions to this growing problem in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u9	Sure. I told you, I'm having conversations with Mr. Grapperhaus with the mayors. Grapperhaus is first responsible for tackling the undermining and also for setting up the fund. The Home Office is closely associated with that. The House also called for attention to be paid to the capacity of the police to deal with serious and organised crime. Then there is also the other side to which I give some more details from BZK at this time. That is the resilience of the drivers who can deal with organised crime. That's on the preventative side. You may have seen in the news today that at least we're doing the security scan of the mayor's residences. By the way, I had announced this to the Chamber earlier than today. It is also about the fact that mayors and others know where to go and that they can talk to experienced experts. In short, there is actually a whole pallet of measures that can help in these kinds of situations. Because, as Jos Wienen himself said to me, it is not just about him, how serious his situation is anyway. His situation is exceptional and extremely regrettable, but the annoying thing is that there are many more mayors in the Netherlands who have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u10	Of course, I understand that many measures are now being taken, but sometimes we also have to take a small step back and look at the motives of, for example, the criminal organisations. Why are they addressing mayors and aldermen? My question to the Minister was therefore whether she was prepared to look at these motives together with Minister Grapperhaus. In fact, with Minister Grapperhaus, we are going to have a debate on death threats against mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u11	I will take that with me, but that is just a little more in the area of Mr Grapperhaus than mine. I told you, we're trying to hang out as much as we can. If it is really about threats or intimidation from organised crime, it must be combated from the point of view of justice and security. But I will include Mrs Den Boer's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u12	My group appreciates the way in which the Minister deals with this issue. Indeed, my group sees much more of a shift from criminal duties of prosecutors and police to administrative tasks. When we look at the lead times at the D.A.'s office, we see that administrative tasks and performances tend to become more compelling, because that lead time becomes so long. I hear the Minister is prepared to look at this problem together with her colleague in the Justice Department and also at the balance and support. I understand that from her words. Of course, the mayors have the room to choose what they place the emphasis on in the performance of their duties. Of course, the Constitution remains an emphasis, for example when it comes to the right of demonstration. We see a different application there every now and then. Is the Minister prepared to look at this whole thing together with her colleague and the Chamber to report on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mrs Özütok has actually mentioned two issues and mayors have both to do with them. In itself, I recognize and share that. It is of course the case that mayors make their own choices. Maybe I should notice that, too. Some mayors choose a very visible role in the fight against crime. Perhaps the same issue can also play in another municipality and the mayor chooses a slightly less visible role there, while that does not matter for the approach itself or for the powers either. So there is that choice in itself. I have just said that the Minister of JenV has asked for information from the Council of State. It deals with the allocation of powers, at least that is our question. It also deals with the administrative approach to undermining. I therefore believe that the aspects that have just been mentioned will be dealt with there. So we can come back to that once we have that information. The other aspect that Mrs Özütok drew attention to was the right to demonstrate. We have had a report from the Ombudsman. I've talked to the Chamber about it before. One or two weeks ago there was a meeting of the Dutch Society of Mayors in Deventer, where the Ombudsman was invited and where I was allowed to speak. There is a manual distributed or we have sent it to all the municipalities that have been drawn up by the municipality of Amsterdam together with the triangle there, especially the police. I can see Mr Bosma walking around. When I mention the word Amsterdam, I always think he's going to take action. That's right. Not because they know better in Amsterdam, but because they have a lot of experience in Amsterdam, as in The Hague. I believe that all the mayors can see that they have a legal role there, namely to protect the right to demonstrate, and that the experience of recent times means that we have to work together to find a way to do this in practice. The right of demonstration is beyond doubt. Everyone thinks so. You have to accommodate that, but you have to be aware of any risks from the perspective of public order and security and for any groups that you might want to take a little protection, while at the same time you want to make those demonstrations happen. In other words, the mayors pay a great deal of attention to this point that GroenLinks and other parties in this Chamber have also drawn attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u14	I needed a bit of a long introduction to my question. Is the Minister prepared to report to us together with her colleague of justice on this area of balance and support in the performance of criminal duties, but also on what it does in the chain with regard to the administrative tasks of the mayor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u15	Sure. I would suggest that we wait for information from the Council of State first. Minister Grapperhaus would have gone into that by now. I am referring to the aspects that are now being included in this budget debate. Then we will come back to it in this way, either bundled or separately, and we will have to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mrs Özütok is right to say that she had a rather lengthy introduction in terms of interruption. I would very much like us to stay in the middle of the interruptions, but can I urge you to keep them brief? Otherwise, we won't make it in time. The great example is now coming and that is Mr Bosma of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u17	I would, by the way, count Mrs Özütok's interruption as two interruptions, if I were you. Mr President, what is happening in Haarlem is a very serious matter. At the same time, it's not new. I remember our old colleague, Mr Boelhouwer, Mayor of Gilze and Mr Rijen, who got into trouble with the Turkish underworld. There's been a lot of cases in Brabant. They were often drug-related. We have also often talked about threats about subsidising football clubs, which threatened mayors. Of course, it's been going on for a long time. I hear the Minister now saying: we must have a debate, we must look at the position, is the mayor not too clear on the stage? Mr President, we are now moving the problem to the public administration and the public administration is not the problem. The public administration is the scum. Now is not the time to say: if that mayor sings down two tones, the problem is over. I hope this is not the way the Minister wants to go. The task needs to be picked up. That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u18	No, Mr Bosma says that very well. That's not the way I want to go. I said that the mayor in charge of public order and security has legal functions and more and more powers on the part of administrative law. He or she doesn't operate alone, but in a triangle. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the police are also involved in this. I have just outlined the debate that is currently taking place and which is sometimes thought differently between mayors. That's not a problem in itself. A mayor can opt for a more visible role in tackling crime or for a less visible role and yet tackle crime. I do not prefer one or the other, because that approach must of course be there. I fully agree with Mr Bosma. The problem is indeed not with the public administration. The problem lies with the threats, with the intimidation, which often comes from a form of crime, but can also have other backgrounds, as Mr Bosma says. However, I believe that the mayors should be properly involved in the exercise of this task. That is why this April declaration of intent for the Weerbaar Bestuur Network, so that we also take into account on the preventive side the fact that those mayors are hitting more exposed. It's already been going on, that's right. We also see mayors in the newspaper today saying: when I was dealing with this, there was little support for me; I actually couldn't get anywhere. I don't want to. I would like them to be able to go somewhere and that we also take into account the fact that mayors are involved in this. So that has to do with the housing scan and training to deal with aggression and violence when it happens to you. Again, not for the purpose of doing so, but precisely to prevent it. The Weerbaar Bestuur Network, in which for example the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security is involved, is also involved, as is the mentioned association, the Aldermen's Association and the Institute for Psychotrauma. This is even more common among aldermen than mayors. We shouldn't be wrong about that. So an entire club of different partners in that network is working on this. As of January 1st, the network will be ready to participate and participate. Of course, I always contact you when something like this is going on, but the most important thing is not that phone call, but that which is going on with support. By the way, my predecessor has also set up a financial safety net in case there is a cost to be incurred if something like this is going on somewhere. This has also been used several times. So it's a whole pallet of measures. In this context, Mr Van der Molen of the CDA also asked about the threat to civil servants. I told you, if something like that's going on, it's gonna work like an oil stain. It's about the person himself, it's about his family and his family and about people working with the person concerned. There are actually two ways in which officials can get in touch with this: either because they work for a public office holder who is threatened or intimidated, or because they are themselves civil servants. So it is indeed a serious point. That's what I'm paying attention to. A network for integrity and safe working is also set up. For example, security coordinators in the various municipalities are paying attention to this. Here too, knowledge exchange and monitoring are important, for example to look at where aggression against government employees occurs, of course with the aim of preventing it and not to act only after it has already happened. So we're really keeping an eye on that. I believe that Mr Van der Molen has rightly drawn attention to this. Mrs. Kuik actually asked about it. She zoomed in on a number of things that we have just discussed, also in collaboration with JenV's colleague. I hope that she will be able to get out of the way with the answer so far. The answer to her question as to whether I feel responsible is: yes, I certainly feel co-responsible for that. Mrs Kuik, I think, has seen all the documents that the JenV Minister has already sent on the undermining approach and on the fund that should enable regions to improve and accelerate the approach in their region. There has been intensive consultation with the regions. The motion tabled by Mrs Kuiken on 22 March 2018 concerns information sharing. I believe that one of those letters dealt with that. In this section I like to continue with safety in general. Of course, that security also has to do with the threats we just talked about. Our democratic rule of law is not only threatened from within, but also has threats from outside our borders. You understand that I would like to recall the press conference that my colleague from the Defense Department gave a few weeks ago. It has, of course, illustrated how important the work of the intelligence services can be. By disrupting that Russian operation against the OPCW, you have seen that the AIVD and the STIVD, our security services, really have an important role to play in the context of national security. So it can lead to disruption of such activity. We have also recently seen the apprehension of people we suspect of terrorism and preparations for it as a result of the AIVD's announcement. This underlines the importance of these services, as Mr Bishop and others have said. Digital espionage, a number of you have drawn attention to that. The AIVD has sometimes mentioned this as the biggest threat of today and later. That is why we are investing extra in cyber security and have already stepped up the whole chain. Mr Bishop welcomed the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. I'd like to thank him for that. He also asked whether the resources available were sufficient to ensure national security and protect our society from the threats we see. The AIVD will do what he has to do. That's what the AIVD can do. We have a budget of 274 million euros for next year. This covers a wide range of issues, such as terrorism, cyber attacks and geopolitical issues. We work from the law and the integrated designation, within the budgetary framework. We are watching it all closely and looking at the means, but also, of course, at the threat picture. These kinds of things can always develop, but right now I think it is adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u19	I have a small supplementary question. There is no problem in terms of powers, if I listen carefully to the Minister. But we all know that in the past there have been significant cuts in the budgets of the AIVD. Restructuring and rebuilding such an organisation takes time. Are there any bottlenecks in this area, in the Minister's observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u20	I think it is a justified point from Mr Bishop. Other members of the Chamber have made that point. Recently we had an AO on this subject. Budgetaryly, it's back on track. A number of years in a row, the budget increases. But it's true that you can't arrange capacity and budget one-on-one. You need to build on the capacity and also on the knowledge and experience of people. Especially now that we have more to do with digital threats, you need specific expertise, including with the services. This has become even more difficult in the current labour market and economy. I think Mr Bishop can see that very well. In the AO of a few weeks ago, I said that we should recruit very targeted people. We'll keep an eye on it, but for the time being we don't see such a bottleneck that I'm worried about it. Sometimes I think it also has to do with the extremely interesting work that someone can do with that expertise at the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u21	The Secretary of Defense was at WNL and said on Sunday morning: we are in cyber war with Russia. I thought: I am a Member of Parliament, I should at least have known; I should at least have informed my family about this. Minister Ollongren just said something very important, namely that we are going to expand capacity. Is that to protect Dutch citizens, or is it to help foreign powers, such as America, England or perhaps Germany, to wage that war with Russia? Do we pay to a cyber war without knowing what the consequences are and what the boomerang effect is for Dutch citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr Bijleveld has rightly drawn attention to the fact that the conflict is changing. I just said that cyber threats are also the threats the services have been worried about for a while. They say that this will be even more in the future. The digital domain has become much more important. We shouldn't be naive in that. I think this is what Mr Bijleveld has rightly drawn attention to. By the way, she didn't say at all that we're in cyber war. She said to a question that this is playing. That's something else, isn't it? The question is whether the capacity expansion is actually intended to participate in that international playing field with the other major partners. We have just received Mr Bishop's compliments on this matter, the Intelligence and Security Services Act. It sees the powers of the services in the context of our national security. That is the framework within which we work. Of course, we do so in cooperation with other partners. Of course. This can't be just national. You can only do this if you also work with other partners and exchange information. That's the way it's actually worked for decades. It does move into the domain of the digital world. When we had the discussion about the new law and the powers, I think it was mainly about that too. I do attach great importance to the fact that we have a law that limits, restricts and provides a clear framework and that we also have supervisors. We already had one, the CTIVD, but we now have the review committee. I therefore believe that we have legally secured this extremely well and carefully in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u23	The minister came up somewhere in April with the story that we have to watch out for the Russians. They would influence us. At some point, the whole Chamber asked: let us see something; what is the danger? Then she came up with a really weird little website. Apparently, it was those four Russians who were arrested at the time, which shouldn't be communicated outside. At some point, I think America, or England, ordered us to communicate it out. Hasn't the cabinet become a little puppet of the great powers fighting amongst themselves? In the meantime, we have to do that sort of thing. Why wasn't the Chamber informed in April? Can you only operate if the great powers instruct you to bring these things out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u24	I just supported my colleague Bijleveld in her statement that we should not be naive in the Netherlands. I think that's really important. Perhaps Mr Öztürk, as one of the few, has not been convinced of what is going on in the world, but we have seen four Russian spies in action in the Netherlands, near here, next door to the OPCW. I hear Mr Öztürk say outside the microphone that this has just been brought out, but that it happened in April. What else do I need to illustrate to you that something really is going on? Also here, also in the Netherlands. We have a task in that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u25	Finally, Mr Öztürk. By the way, don't you want to get mixed up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u26	I can't get an answer to my question. We're okay with those Russians being arrested. We're also okay with protecting our country. That's all fine. But the fact that you're looking for a fight with a very big country because another country is asking you to, has consequences for our country. That's my question. You have the guts to answer that question for once. Are we used or abused by such large countries? What's the bill for that? The effect is that the Russians are also going to hack into our systems and that the citizens can ultimately suffer. So the question is next. I support you in protecting our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u27	Through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u28	Through the chairman, I support the minister in protecting our country. But also be honest in the answer to the question whether we are being used or abused.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u29	I would almost say: let's see this as something in which a small country can be large. I would rather not see the Netherlands acting like a kind of Calimero and saying: we are too small to do this sort of thing. No, we're a serious player on the world stage. We are also an important partner of other countries. I therefore entirely disagree with Mr Öztürk's analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u30	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u31	I'm going through the same theme a little bit, because it's about disinformation. We have already said that we see digital espionage and terrorist threats in an unstable world. Secret political influence is part of that. I've discussed this with your Chamber before. I know that some of the Members of Parliament present here often call attention to this. Through the Internet, via social media, it is also possible for anyone to distribute misleading information anonymously, on a fairly serious scale. In your Chamber's first term, it became clear in the debate on the interruption that this could be done in all kinds of different ways. I believe that Mr Van der Molen said that there are also commercial uses of it. We have all read in the newspaper that there are young people in Macedonia who have just made a business case out of it and make their money out of it. So they spread fake news to get bread on the shelf. That is worrying, but from my responsibility I find it even more worrying when there are state actors behind the dissemination of that misleading information. It will affect our national autonomy, our democracy and our citizens. I believe, and that is what I stand for, that state actors, other countries, have nothing to do with our domestic affairs. The subject is on the agenda. That's very good. An important contribution is made by independent journalism in particular. Researchers are also working on this. This means that the debate is in full swing and raising awareness in the Netherlands. That's something to cheer on. A number of members have asked and recalled that the cabinet invests in good investigative journalism. Mr Verhoeven, together with a number of other colleagues, wondered whether we could not do more, including in the field of information to people. Last year, during the budgetary procedure, he said with a number of others: perhaps we should also do something about a public campaign. That was almost a year ago. So you could think: where is this campaign? In part, I think there has to be some sort of soil for a campaign. The fact that there is now much more social attention to it is all right. I just mentioned all the media, researchers and so on. The digital platforms themselves also have much more attention to it. They're working on a code of conduct. So that's all good. I understood from the first period that you still think that we could do more from the government in the field of information. I can imagine that at next year's elections we will do so. Mr Verhoeven also pointed out that next year is an important election year, with elections for Provincial States, waterboards, European Parliament and indirectly, of course, the First Chamber. Those are the moments when you want to pay extra attention. I could therefore imagine that this could be the point of reference for an information campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u32	I imagine that could be a starting point for a campaign... Well, we have a firm commitment, Mr. Chairman. I was rather shocked by the contributions made by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Molen. Mr Van der Molen said that there should also be a campaign to identify what sources we can trust. It all sounds fun and very alarming, and if there are foreign countries trying to run campaigns here and try to influence elections, the secret service must certainly act against them. But it always goes wrong with the definition of fake news and who decides what's fake and who isn't. This campaign, which is perhaps going to be held, perhaps, what is it that is going to tell the Dutch citizen about what is good and what is bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u33	I have just said that I make a distinction between disinformation or incorrect information that is distributed for example for a commercial purpose or just to get a little bit of resurrection in the debate, and influence by state actors. That is where my attention and, I think, my responsibility lies. The reason for my still somewhat broad wording on that campaign is that I would like to give Members of Parliament the opportunity to confirm that it appeals to them to do so around the elections. It should not, of course, be about the content. It should be about how to grab people to assess whether what they achieve through social media is based on facts, on things that actually happened. For example, Leiden University already does this in collaboration with NU.nl. You all know the example. How can you, as an ordinary citizen, check whether what it says is really true? That doesn't get you into the substance, because you'll never do that as a government. You don't judge content. You don't judge political views. Of course, that is where the absolute limit lies. But just as we teach children media in schools, I can imagine that the intention of all of us should be to give people those handles. Everyone can say the word algorithm by now, but what it is exactly is still unclear for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u34	I think it's a very vague story again from the Minister, but it's always a vague story when it comes to fake news. We remember the debate Mr Baudet was also standing here saying: come up with a definition. There was a definition, but the only example with which the minister came was what the Russian ambassador around the MH17 claimed. He claimed monkey, but yes, it's just his function to do that. Yeah, that's true. There are also Dutch ambassadors who tell things that are untruthful. But is this the job of the government? What's that campaign about the election gonna look like? Don't listen to the ambassador? Or: don't trust algorithms? Or: certain sources are wrong? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u35	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u36	Sometimes it's easy. If we see two Russian men on television explaining that they were going to visit the Salisbury Cathedral, then I think the whole world, including Russia itself, saw that that was not right. We've got similar stories about the four Russians who were here at the OPCW. Sometimes it's easy, but often it's really less easy than that. And that is exactly what we are looking for with each other: how can we distinguish facts from fabrications? I have mentioned many and many examples, including from abroad. We have said before that perhaps we should congratulate ourselves on the fact that it is still, to some extent, not so much here, if you compare it with other countries. We have seen the British Prime Minister, who has made a statement about it in connection with the democratic process there and the dissemination of disinformation. We have seen the Spanish authorities make a similar statement when it comes to the Catalan independence referendum. We have seen Chancellor Merkel in Germany, who warned against Russian cyber attacks. We saw the then presidential candidate Macron in France, who had to do with hacks, a cyberattack and possible Russian involvement. So let's not be naive, my call is also here. It is better to prevent it, to equip people to recognize it, rather than to observe afterwards that it has happened and that it may also have had an impact on the democratic process in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u37	For the VVD, the Russian cyber case is clear, but if we continue talking afterwards, the confusion increases very quickly each time. It is interesting that the Minister indicated that research is being carried out into where voters actually get their information during campaigns in the digital age and on which they base their choice. At the second, you quickly enter into a political discussion about disinformation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it is not much more logical to take a step backwards in next year's elections and to look at the impact of social media and search engines on the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr Middendorp refers to the written reply, I think. In this context, I have indeed said that, following the previous elections, an analysis is being made of what might have been played at the time and to what extent people use social media in determining their choice. This can again produce very relevant input. The results of that report are not yet available, but if they are there they may be able to give a handle on what Mr Middendorp is asking for, in the run-up to the next elections. So I would like to include that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u39	So is the VVD, but we'd like to go a little further. We are afraid that if we involve that in a campaign, again very quickly the question "what about?" will rise. Does it therefore not make much more sense for the next elections to really look at the positive and negative impact of social media and internet search engines on the campaigns and then decide exactly what the information campaign should be about? Because as far as the Russian cyber case is concerned, it is clear, but about all the other elements that are mentioned here, from algorithms to what you come up with when you click on a particular item, we actually still have a continuous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u40	This isn't the end of one campaign. Both are possible. You could opt for an awareness campaign ahead of next year's elections. In it you take people with you, explaining how social media works and why they receive a certain type of messages as a citizen and not a different type of messages. I think there's a knowledge gap there that we could fill with such a campaign. But of course it should never cross the line of people's content or political choices. Of course, people simply make political choices based on information that political parties themselves can submit to them. It is sometimes quite a thin cord that you have to walk. I understand that very well and we have to sit well in front of it. It must never be about the campaign itself, about the content itself, about the political views that political parties in this country must, of course, always be able to express in our free democratic rule of law. I would like to say to political parties that it is also their responsibility to explain to people how they stand in this, how they are doing it themselves. I think it's possible. I'm sure we'll talk about it if there's a difference of opinion in the Chamber. Again, it's about explanation, it's about bringing people along in the fact that it's there, and it's not about sending people in some kind of political direction. Of course, we have to stay far away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u41	A closing sentence, that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u42	At least we agree on the latter, but I also heard the order of things. That's something we really need to take with us. The more knowledge we use a campaign, the better it will be for those who are targeted by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u43	Maybe we should just call it an awareness campaign and not something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u44	It is a kind of media wisdom lesson for the many children from the south of the country, who already have autumn holidays and are present here today. It's also nice for them in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u45	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr Van der Molen from the CDA has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u47	I would like to underline what the Minister said about informing people, raising awareness of what cannot be hidden on the Internet and how it can affect us from abroad. It is good to say that it is not meant to say: you have to believe or not believe in the content. That's what people are free to do. That is precisely why Mr Verhoeven and I have argued that the government should never enter it. We have to explain to people that they have to realize what can happen. You can't look at everything on the table. What are convenient ways to find out you're being taken by the leg? The Minister has made a commitment that I am very pleased with. I think it should be a little bit more specific. When will we hear from the Minister what she specifically intends to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u48	It is very good that Mr Van der Molen is forcing me to become even more concrete. Before the end of the year, I will come to the Chamber with a proposal to further develop the measures that we could take on the road to a campaign. That is necessary in order to achieve these two elections in a good way next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u49	When the minister says in general terms "we want to help people to become more aware of the danger of fake news," that sounds fine. But the last time the Minister uttered similar words was in an initiative from the European Union: EUvsDisinfo. The Minister supported that, too. That would be all very innocent, too. Then a few cookies went from Ukraine, I believe, saying that in the Netherlands BNNVARA was no good, ThePostOnline was not good and newspaper De Gelderlander distributed fake news. So I don't want this kind of insanity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u50	Me neither. The SP, Mr Van Raak and I are very much in line when it comes to that. You could almost say: it's part of the process we're going through together to know how to deal with it. We have said that something has started with the best intentions from the European Council, especially driven by Eastern European countries which are much more involved than we are with Russian fake news and Russian influence. An agency has been set up with a network of volunteers who would help. Somewhere in that process, this has led to Dutch media messages being classified as fake news. Then the circle is almost complete, you would say, and that is exactly not the intention. In that sense, we must learn from that too. That is why I and my colleagues have, also on behalf of the Chamber of Inquiry, tabled a motion on this issue in Brussels that we should not do so. It's not the way to do that either. But that doesn't change the fact that, in my opinion, it is not naive in other ways, it is a bit like the winged word "people" that should be included in what is happening. The chairman just pointed out that there are school children present here. Sometimes I think that today's schoolchildren are media teachers than we, adults, all together. I apologise in advance to those of you who are, of course, extremely media-wise, because I did not want to offend them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u51	I agree with the latter, but I absolutely disagree with the statement that the European Union would have done this with good intentions. This was simply an attempt to silence Eurocritical noises. Anyway, I look forward to the Minister's plans. I do have another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u52	Shall we be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u53	I've been mugged by fake news in the last few months, for example, when it comes to fireworks that would be banned, or extra money to cops or to teachers. I've been incredibly harassed with fake news from the ministries. Now there are almost 700 informers active in the ministries. Can the Minister not also put his hand in his own bosom and say: we are going to try to limit the spread of fake news by firing a large number of those informers, for example 90%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u54	Now I had almost hoped for Mr Bosma on the interrupt microphone, because this is a pollution of the definition of fake news.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u55	Oh! Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u56	I'm not much of a supporter of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u57	The minister's talking, and we're not gonna talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u58	It's okay, of course, it's okay. But this, I think, is part of the public debate and also the political debate that we are having with each other, and in which our media in the Netherlands are, of course, fully involved. In the end, that ends up in this Chamber and we are talking about the government's plans, their desirability and whether there is any support for them in your Chamber. We do this with the help of our ministries; policy officials, supporters, educators. They all play their part in it. Also the informers are simply doing their job, and they are absolutely not spreading fake news as Mr Van Raak sketches it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u59	A final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u60	That is even worse, because then it will be the ministers. As a Member of Parliament, like citizens in the country, I often face fake news from the ministries. Deliberately misinformation is being leaked to the media. I would ask the Minister to stop this as the first step in the campaign against fake news...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u62	Stop deliberately spreading, leaking, of falsehoods in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u63	I really must distance myself from Mr Van Raak's position. We don't do that. The cabinet doesn't do that. The ministers are always responsible, of course. Mr Van Raak will also be the first to confirm this. That is not at all the way the cabinet works. In fact, like the Prime Minister, I often have discussions here in committee rooms about the fact that the Chamber should always be the first to be informed and then the media. We keep to that and we talk about it regularly. All that is brought out is an intention that is discussed with your Chamber and may or may not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr. Bishop, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u65	The Minister noted with satisfaction that the EU's first amateur attempt to gain control of what was then regarded as fake news had failed. The Minister has also been regularly urged from the Chamber: go ahead; do not accept that. Eventually, it worked. But in the meantime, the EU has set up a different strategy. She has opted for a High-Level Expert Group on Fake News and Online Disinformation. Does the Minister have any faith in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u66	I certainly have confidence that it is necessary to work together in Europe to combat this phenomenon. That's why I thought setting up that High-Level Group was a good idea. The report on the subject provides tools for further policy development, including in the European approach. So I agree. I think it's a good way, because of course we can see that it's spreading over the Internet and the digital platforms that are there for it. It doesn't make much sense to want to make agreements with these digital platforms on a country-by-country basis. Of course, this is much better if you have scale and if you can do so at European level. These platforms are becoming increasingly receptive to this, so I think it is important that there is also a European approach. And I think it is important that the European Union, the European Commission and the actors behind it show that they are learning and that they are converting a method that does not work, as we have seen in the example of the EU versus Disinformation on Dutch media, into something that works and needs to be done at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u67	But this group consists of about 100 experts: academics, journalists, scientists and so on. In view of this method, isn't the limit fundamentally different from that first variant? Only, the people who can make a contribution have perhaps been selected a little more sharply. Doesn't that mean that you keep balancing on that limit of censorship, randomness and subjective views that are displeased by certain people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u68	The distinction is as follows, and I would really like to ask Mr Bishop to reconsider this. Where it went wrong, it was about a network of people, also volunteers, nothing to the detriment of those people who were talking about the content. There it went, I think, wrong. While in that High-Level Group it was not about the content but about the phenomenon, the analysis and what you could do, also in the sphere of law and regulation. Again, no decision has yet been taken on this, so we can all judge that, also from the Dutch Parliament. That was about how, without getting to the content, you can get a grip on the digital world that is there. How, for example, could you make arrangements with those platforms? So not the content, but the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u69	Finally, Mr Bishop, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u70	At the invitation of the chairman, then. I am very concerned that there is hardly any separation between the method and the content. They can't be separated from each other. Frankly, I have very little confidence in this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u71	Then I invite Mr Bishop to review the approach very thoroughly before the end of the year, as I have just promised. For my part, too, I will pay close attention to the fact that this can never, in any way whatsoever, infringe freedom of expression and the free press. Those are the keystones for me. That test has to pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u72	This case also indicates a little bit that this is a very important subject. I asked for it in the first place. As far as the European Union is concerned and dealing with agreements with digital platforms, okay, for the things that do work. The discussion that has just taken place also indicates that you should be careful with that. But my question to the Minister is: shouldn't we build a lot of knowledge about this in the Netherlands and make arrangements in the Netherlands with digital platforms? I believe that the first steps have already been taken in the municipal elections. Our democracy in the Netherlands, a sovereign country, is actually very special within Europe. So there are also things that may not work at all at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u73	That conversation was held, too. Mr Middendorp is right about that. I've been sitting around the table with those platforms myself. That conversation is also being held by my colleague Slob from the education portfolio, from the media portfolio. We're in that together too. So in part, you can do national things as well. If we were to agree on such a campaign, it would be a national campaign aimed at helping people in the Netherlands. So not everything can be European, but not everything can only be in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u74	That was precisely the question: do we pay attention to what needs to be done in the Netherlands? For this we consciously use the construction: building knowledge in the Netherlands. So that we do not wait and see what comes out of Brussels and then discuss afterwards whether the Brussels definition of fake news is useful for the Netherlands. It is really about building knowledge in the Netherlands. But I hear from the Minister that she sees it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u75	I think you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u76	I thought so, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u77	So I am very pleased that the cabinet is not going down the road of law, and that it is critical of the mistakes made by EU vs. Disinformation. However, I welcome an approach whereby a number of steps are taken to ensure that something is done in consultation with platforms and journalistic companies. Have I understood correctly to the Minister that, after urging the Chamber last year and building up more and more examples showing that it is a real threat, she is going to do two things, namely try to set up that campaign in the letter she sends at the end of the year with the approach, and an investigation during the elections in 2019? A campaign in advance and an investigation during would be the combination I had asked for in my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u78	I think that would be a good way. I'll come back to it in the piece I'm going to send to your room this year. Of course, we always try to learn from elections. That is why I would also like to know whether the analysis of the previous elections will give us any clues so that we can look more closely at the next elections. I also think it is important that we look at what other countries have done in that regard. As is well known, research has been carried out in France. There have been recent elections in Sweden, and that is where they have looked very closely. There they really suffered from disinformation as part of the election campaign. So I think that, as Mr Verhoeven says, we could indeed come up with that awareness campaign on the one hand and a more targeted approach on the other, which we are looking at in the two elections next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u79	That seems to me to be a good approach. With regard to this campaign, I feel a strong tendency to think about it here and there, also in the light of the comments made by colleagues, who, in my view, are rightly afraid of interference with substance. As far as I'm concerned, it's about questions like: what types of news sources are there, how does the internet work, how does algorithms work, what data do you leave behind on the basis of which you get to see certain information, digital skills? I'm serious: I know that some people say you shouldn't do this because then you go into the content, but I don't think anyone wants to do that. It's about making people aware of themselves in a way that they can then make their own choices in what they do and do not believe. The government's never about that. As far as I am concerned, that is a very clear condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u80	Mr Verhoeven and I are also in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u81	That's it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u82	Then I come to the second part of the answer: public administration and democracy. Of course, I liked to hear that in the first term many people quoted the so-called Thorbeckelezing. Those who have seen the lecture know that in my office in the ministry, where there is no desk but a very large table, there is a sculpted head of Thorbecke in the windowsill, which literally makes him look over my shoulder. At first I thought that was a bit objectionable, but it is still there and I am actually very happy with it. On my bedside table is that beautiful biography of Aerts: "Thorbecke wants it." It's really a fantastic book, for which you have to have a moment, so I'll read it out in the autumn recess. And indeed, Mr Middendorp said during the first term: although we are not in the plenary, we are in the Thorbeckezal and that is nice. So I think we can conclude that Thorbecke's legacy is in good hands with all of us in that respect. Thorbecke, as I said, the spirit of time has felt very good. That is, of course, important. But he was not the only one, he is not the only great statesman in our history who has done so much for the public administration, who has done so much to bring about democracy. Mr Van Raak mentioned Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis in his contribution. That is indeed an interesting person in the development of our democracy. I'll admit that immediately. After all, he was at the basis of the introduction of universal suffrage with the establishment of the Kiesbond. I can also imagine, from the political point of view of Mr Van Raak, that he considers Domela Nieuwenhuis as a social anarchist, I believe that we can call him that; in any case, he started out as an almost more important figure than Mr Thorbecke, because Mr Thorbecke, of course, made sure that we did not have a revolution in the Netherlands. I think Mr Van Raak would have preferred that we had. Someone else I might mention in that connection is Abraham Kuyper. You see, I'm trying to do all the denominations a little justice. Abraham Kuyper and his Anti-Revolutionary Party have laid the foundations for our modern party system. But I would like to say a little more about Thorbecke and what I tried to say at the reading. I quote Thorbecke, as I did in that lecture: "Every period has its own principle of movement. Let one sleep that, then in the next period there is confusion of movement. Stadium union is maintained not by unemployment, but by continuous creation." It's a beautiful quote. He actually says in so many words: public administration must move along with its time, otherwise it will not function properly later. I see that as my job as Secretary of State. I also see it as my job not to do so from the tower of BZK, but to do so together with citizens and with local administrative parties, and of course also with your Chamber. We're actually at the beginning of that development, I think. Someone just talked about dualization. It has actually further strengthened the checks-and-balances in a division of tasks between council and college. But we're not done there either. I'm gonna go into that local democracy a little more deeply later. So we've actually made a firmer base. From that base, we've been decentralizing. More tasks and more powers have gone to the municipalities. This also raises the question of how much space you give municipalities to set their own priorities. I'd like to give them a lot of room for that. So we have dualisation and decentralisation, and as far as I am concerned we need the third d, namely differentiation. For a long time now, I think we have seen that there are great differences between municipalities, and indeed between provinces. They're different. They may have the same legal tasks, but in their elaboration these tasks are very different. I'd like to face these differences. That is why I have advocated more experiments and more innovations. In part, this can also be done within the existing law, within the Municipal Act and within the Province Act. It is an open invitation to municipalities that have plans to come up with proposals for how we can use that space. If larger municipalities say they can actually carry out more tasks themselves, I would say: yes, let's find a way to do that. If a province, in consultation with municipalities or at the request of municipalities, says "maybe we can carry out certain tasks," I also say: yes, let's see how that can be done. If there are municipalities that say that they want to work together in another way, then the word "federal municipality" has also fallen. I say: yes, let's see how that can be done. As long as it is democratic and not against the rule of law. In this way, I believe that we will have a public administration that is more in line with the needs of people in our society, that we should focus our energy properly, namely on the social challenge, not on bureaucracy and the structure, and that we should focus on the content. The cabinet has thus started in the intergovernmental programme that we have concluded with the co-governments to tackle together, as one government, all these societal challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u83	I'd still like to take a little step back to Thorbecke. Thorbecke gave vote to the 10% richest. Domela Nieuwenhuis fought for the other 90%. That's what I recognize myself in. I also asked the Minister to reflect on 100 years of voting rights. You can see that more and more people aren't gonna vote. I showed her a map of Josse de Voogd, showing that the non-voters in most municipalities are the largest group. Can the Minister reflect on that? How come so many people...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u84	You asked that question in the first term, so I think the Minister will answer that question. If we keep repeating the questions during the debate, we will never be finished today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u85	But I think that was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u86	So you want those questions answered in this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u87	I can't imagine these kinds of issues being dealt with in the block of varia and others, so I thought this was the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u88	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u89	Yes, Mr. Chairman, certainly. Mr Van Raak is indeed in favour of me and I had heard his question. Fortunately, the time when only 10% of the population had the right to vote is very far behind us, but I understand Mr Van Raak's concern. The turnout differs a bit by type of election. In some elections, turnout is low, too low, and I think that is a task for all of us and also for the political parties we represent. The SP, I think, is a party that is looking for the electorate, and who is perhaps looking for this group in particular. So that's really a task for all of us. The great good that we have, namely that every vote in the Netherlands is worth just as much, is of course worth even more when more people actually exercise their right to vote. It's also important to know why people don't. It is important to know whether that has anything to do with the trust that people have in politics, or whether they no longer have any expectations of it. That is certainly a subject that concerns me. So on the one hand, there is the defence of what we have. We also have a very accessible electoral system in the Netherlands; people do not have to register or anything like that. It is an easy way to vote and yet some people choose not to vote and not to participate in politics. You may also have seen in the Thorbeckelezing that I am certainly paying attention to that, and I will continue to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u90	When I ask people why they are not going to vote, they say: yes, I can vote what I want, but they do what they want in The Hague. And I have to agree with people very often, for example when it comes to the marketing, the sale of public services, care, education, energy and VV, but also when I look at the framing of the European Union and the giving of powers to Brussels and now also to Frankfurt, and when I see that supervision of the financial sector has been abandoned, which has led to a deep crisis. Is the problem not also that a lot of decisions are taken here, including with the approval of the parliament, which the people do not want outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr Van Raak is asking me this now, but I think he is right to say that Parliament, the legislator, the Lower House, are representatives of the people. We have a system that leads to a wide range of political parties here and that we have coalitions in the Netherlands. That has been the case for a very long time and that is actually going very well. But that democratic rule of law in the Netherlands is based on the fact that decision-making takes place on the basis of political majorities and within the legal frameworks and frameworks of the Constitution. So all those decisions that Mr Van Raak says he didn't actually like, have been on that parliamentary route. Then Mr Van Raak can now say 'I didn't really agree with it', but a majority in this Chamber apparently agreed with it at the time. Otherwise, it wouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u92	Mr Van Raak, final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u93	Yeah, that's the problem. It's not about what I think. The point is that a lot of decisions are taken here by the Chamber and the Cabinet that the people outside do not want at all. And now we had a nice valve. Now we had a nice means with which the people could whistle back the representatives of the people. Now we had the referendum, the crown of representative democracy. Looking back on the past turbulent months, hasn't it gotten a little bit gnawy with the minister? Would this referendum not have been an excellent way for the people to correct us and not to constantly say: we can vote what we want, but they do what they want in The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u94	I do not think Mr Van Raak and I will ever agree on this. Well, maybe we can talk about it again when we're both retired, but it'll take too long. We are not going to agree on this in our political roles. We know that. Mr Van Raak can keep marking that. That's his right, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u95	We're not going to do the debate again, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u96	But perhaps I can also say that otherwise I will not answer that question, which he also asked in the first term, that we in the cabinet have found that the consultative referendum was fundamentally flawed in its nature. If Mr Van Raak thinks it is so important that people have confidence in politics, I think that this basic use contributes precisely to the worsening of confidence in politics. We have often had this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u97	Indeed, we have often had this debate. We're not gonna do that again. Mr Bosma is not going to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u98	With this position, Minister Hans van Mierlo made us cry posthumously. She made another one cry, because she now presents herself as Mr. Thorbecke's great successor. Thorbecke led our beautiful homeland when we still had 1,200 municipalities. Thanks to this minister there are 300 of them left, because one of the first things she did was lift 30 municipalities. Underneath it was Haren.............................................................................................................................................................................................. They probably won't do that in the future. The minister was completely deaf to the people who said they wanted to keep their congregation. Mr Van Raak was just talking about people who are going to vote less. Among other things, they're going to vote less because the board is moving further away from them. So the minister has dissolved 30 municipalities. There's 300 left. In the study, the minister behind him sees the face of Thorbecke, the head of Thorbecke. Do any tears come out of Mr Thorbecke's eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u99	The Minister. This was a question you asked about the reclassifications in the first term, so perhaps the Minister can answer that question right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u100	No miracle has yet happened in my study, so I haven't seen any tears with Mr Thorbecke. I believe that happens occasionally in Lourdes. However, I would like to answer Mr Bosma's questions. There are certainly many times when Mr Van Mierlo turns around in his grave, but not so much when he abolishes the consultative referendum. I'll be right back to the reclassifications if the chairman agrees. Maybe it's just best if I prosecute my response. In that case, Mr Bosma will be able to intervene at any time during the reclassification. I gave a more general introduction, but specific questions have been asked. For example, Mr Middendorp said that experimenting is nice, but that clear borders are sometimes also very important. I don't disagree with him at all. Mrs Den Boer also referred to clear frameworks and rules. And Mr Krol zoomed a little further into the question "how exactly?" For he had heard me or rather my sg, who spoke out the lecture as some rightly pointed out, wondering whether the number of city council members can be determined by the municipality itself. So there are indeed ideas in it that raise the question: what can and cannot be done? Let me start by saying that we have started and that I want to go further in that regard. I'd like to send an agenda to your room. I call that agenda Space in Rules. My ambition is to have it here before March 1st. In that agenda I would like to outline to you how I think there could be more room for customization and experimentation in our organic legislation, in particular in the Municipal Law, the Province Law and also in the Common Regulations Act. Allow me to outline a timetable for you, because I realize that some things can already be done within the existing legislation and regulations. I told you. But some things can't. I think that we need to create room for that, and that can only be done with the amendment of the law and the assent of the Chamber. It's actually about a very wide pallet of data. It may be about the differences between municipalities due to their geographical location. We all know that. It could be about population building. It can also be about how the housing market and the labour market work together. Those are all things that determine what the challenges are. It could be about the scale. It can also be about their own regional choice and how they think they can best achieve that task. In other words: one size fits all, actually doesn't work. And yet that has been the basis of a lot of legislation that we now have. By the way, we have already taken a few steps. Also on the initiative of this Chamber, a bill has been passed that allows municipal councils the freedom to decide for themselves who is the chairman of a council committee. That may be a small step, but it is a significant step in that direction. With the same bill, the city council will have more room to make its own assessment of the residence requirement of aldermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u101	Thank you. You've made several vague statements, Mr. Middendorp. The Minister is now answering your questions. If all the first-term questions are interrupted, we will be ready the day after tomorrow. Let me give you an intrusive look at whether it is really very urgent and whether you have not received an answer to the question you have asked, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a brief suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u103	Which is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u104	Shouldn't it be "space within the rules"? Stretching rules or broadening rules: I know what we're doing, so that appeals to me in itself, but the Minister is talking about defending essential edges of the playing field. I would like to consider whether it should not be "space within the rules" rather than "space in the rules"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u105	This is the first time that I have experienced that I have only given the title of a piece and that the Chamber already has a view, but the title may nevertheless be important. I'll think about it. After all, it's a working title. We can still go either way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u106	Thank you, continue with the topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u107	Then I come to the far-reaching proposals on which Mr Krol has also asked a question. Let me give you some examples. It is conceivable that municipalities say: we want this alderman not only to be alderman in our municipality but also in other municipalities, because they opt for cooperation in the social domain, for example. You could imagine that a council would have more room to decide for itself, perhaps within a bandwidth, how many members one would like to have in the city council. It's a suggestion. Mr Krol is already starting to look questionable, but it has been suggested by the Committee on Future-oriented Local Government, the so-called Van de Donk Committee. For the sake of transparency, I should just like to say that, in my previous capacity, I myself was part of that committee. The number of members is now related to the number of inhabitants. There it was said: suppose that in a municipality the city council itself wants to focus on important main lines and set up village councils at the level of underlying cores. Then I would say: why should we not think about whether we can make that possible? You can also see it in the regions. There is also an increasing need for differentiation. In one region one wants to work in a partnership, in the other one wants to delegate more to, for example, a centre municipality or to a province. This cannot be done now in the current legislation, and the question is whether we might want to allow it. That is a number of concrete examples. Mrs Den Boer asked whether, if administrative power is organized in a new way, that can also cross borders. An interesting thought. At the municipal and provincial borders this is quite obvious, but also in the border regions there are, of course, opportunities to work across borders. The Secretary of State, who is responsible for cross-border cooperation, will be able to give you some concrete examples of this. I think it's an understandable question. Mr President, I think I need to go a little faster for the sake of time. The reclassification. Mr Bosma drew attention to this, as did Mr Krol the day before yesterday. We have indeed dealt with many reclassification proposals this year, as a kind of final piece of a long-term trajectory that has been going through in these municipalities and provinces. They had all been established under the current policy framework for municipal reclassifications. For the rest of the cabinet period, there are far fewer reclassifications in the picture at this time. The coalition agreement states that, and I have also announced this, we need a new policy framework. I intend to submit this to the Chamber this autumn. I think that will apply to new reclassification proposals by 2021. We always have to learn. So I think it is very important that primarily the municipalities themselves have the responsibility to think about how best to carry out the tasks they do for their inhabitants. As I said earlier, I think there are better, different and smarter ways to organise this cooperation. Of course, support is a very important part of this. In the end, we all have to be sure that these municipalities can handle it and that they can do and do what their residents are entitled to. But this also applies: one size fits all is not the way to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u108	Is that how the component is reorganised?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u109	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I can, of course, elaborate on that, but perhaps it is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u110	We will find out when Members still have specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u111	I have a specific question for the Minister. She indicated that she would like to present the framework to us in the autumn. It indicated that this should apply to post 2022 reclassifications. Now, of course, all kinds of movements are in progress, whereas that framework applies to all kinds of proposals which are then submitted to the Minister. How exactly am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u112	That's a very good point. I am also talking to municipalities and provinces about this, because it is of course difficult. For example, reclassifications have been started that have been put on hold for a while. And it is difficult, because there is, of course, an existing policy framework but also a new policy framework. Municipalities don't want to end up between shore and ship. They would like to have clarity as to what framework they should actually apply. As long as that is not there, I can only say that the current policy framework is the current policy framework. But even if the new ones are, I can tell that the municipalities and the provinces that are working on them are mainly guided by the current policy framework. And next year, of course, there will be the elections of the Provincial States. That is also a relevant point. We must therefore achieve a kind of transition from the old to the new, so that, as far as I am concerned, as much and as quickly as possible is worked towards the new. I will indicate this in the policy framework. Those who have gone far, we cannot force them to do everything again. So it's hard, but we're gonna try to do it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u113	As far as I am concerned, the Minister has a framework, and that will be the framework as soon as the Chamber decides on it? If, therefore, there is not yet a reclassification draft before the Minister, this is the preliminary work that municipalities and provinces have to do with each other, will the new framework have to be taken into account? I'd like a response from the Minister to see if I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u114	Of course. Mr Van der Molen is right. Indeed, at the time we have discussed this with each other, it is either the new policy or the new policy framework. The only thing I would like to point out is that it might be that we should say reclassifications that have been going on for a long time on the basis of the old framework: the work that has been done in the past does not have to be redone on the basis of the new policy framework. I heard Mr Van der Molen very well. I also think we should try to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u115	A final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u116	Rounding up. Then I think that by then we should at least have a good talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u117	I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u118	What's done is done. It is very difficult for us to change this after all. I noticed in the previous debate this week in the Thorbeckesaal that the inhabitants of Haren listened very well and followed this debate with very great interest. Hence my question to the Minister: we can't change anything anymore, but did that reclassification, in retrospect, deserve the beauty prize?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u119	That's a difficult question to answer. I have also argued here in this Chamber that the process has been carefully conducted and that the test of the policy framework as it is has been carried out. My opinion is that this has also been done carefully. There are people who disagree. They also made that clear loud and clear. And it's a good thing it works that way in the Netherlands. We just can't change the rules during the game. If we do change the rules of the game, which we are doing now, now that we are working on a new policy framework, then these will apply to new cases. I have just said in the interrupting debate with Mr Van der Molen that it can also be a kind of transition situation. We have to deal with this very carefully. Once the new policy framework is in place, that is basically the basis on which we are going to work. I can't change that reality. This is true, in my view, in football, but it is also true in our democratic rule of law. We have to play by the rules that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u120	We still have the video judge. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u121	That is why I started my question by saying that we cannot change the past anymore. One of the reasons why people at home get less and less confidence in politics is that we do not dare to say afterwards: no, it was indeed not something that deserves the beauty prize. Why can't we just say that honestly? Unfortunately, this does not change anything for the people of Haren, but it would seem a little more humane to people at home than the evasive answer I have heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u122	We then had the debate on all these reclassifications. We talked about it all at once, and a few of them jumped out. Fortunately, most of it is not, where the reclassification has come about in a more calmer way. At that time, I indicated that it happened according to the rules that exist. You have to check to see if the rules have been followed. That's what I thought was my role. I've found that's what happened. You can have all kinds of views and judgments about it, Mr Krol is completely free, but in my role as Minister I do not think I can do that. So I am not going to say anything else here than I said in the debate at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u123	No, I understand that, but it is very bitter that Haren was destroyed as an independent municipality. Soon there will be reclassification elections and all those people will have to go to the ballot box with fresh reluctance, because they have been abandoned by a minister of D66-house. And that while there is no municipality in the Netherlands where percentage numbers of D66-voters are as many as in Haren! That municipality has therefore been destroyed and the Minister is now coming up with a new criterion, namely support. Why didn't the Minister introduce the "portrait" element six months ago, then those people in Haren wouldn't have had to be so angry with the public administration,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u125	...including the Minister of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u126	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u127	I am afraid I must give Mr Bosma the same answer as I have just given to Mr Krol...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u128	We've already heard that answer. We're not gonna repeat. Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u129	It cannot have been the same answer, because Mr Krol asked a very different question. It is nice that the chairman can look into the Minister's head. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party All of a sudden, the Minister considers support to be important. Why didn't she think that was important six months ago? What happened? On what day did she wake up and think: support is important? How is that possible? Where did that come from? Has the Minister seen the light, if so, why and how?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u130	I also talked about acceptance in the debate at the time. Mr Bosma knows that. Support is important and will also be important in the new reclassification framework. I honestly think that we, including the inhabitants of Haren, will do better if we focus on the future. We must show the inhabitants of Haren that in the new congregation they are part of, they get what they are entitled to. Then we must also show that we can learn together how best to decorate the country, to ensure that the people are given what they are entitled to. That's what I'm looking for. I can't change the rules as they were. I can only test if they have been properly applied. Mr Bosma also knows that, on the basis of an opinion from the Council of State on another planned reclassification, it was said that the rules had not been properly applied. Then you must be able to stop the process. But if the rules are applied properly, you have to keep going. That's how it works with the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u131	A very short closing sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u132	I think all of D66 is robotized now that I hear this answer. I'm asking a very different question. I'm asking a very simple question. Where does the element "support plane" suddenly come from? Why is support now important and not six months ago, when Haren was destroyed as an independent municipality? Why didn't it play a role then and it wasn't important then and now it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u133	Mr Bosma knows the power of repetition like no other. That's what I heard in his first term. He has a constant theme when we are in the middle of a debate. He has just heard me say that, but he has heard me say that in the debate on reclassification. Let us agree that, when the new policy framework is in place, Mr Bosma will assess whether the way in which support is to be found is better in his view than in the current policy framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u134	Mr Van Raak, you had already had an interruption on this point about reclassification. Shouldn't we do it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u135	I was pushed away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u136	Oh, go ahead. You were pushed away. I'm gonna give you all the space now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u137	There is a regular new policy framework, but that never changes much. People get redistributed when they don't want to. I think there's something more fundamental wrong. We increasingly consider municipalities to be a kind of execution organisations of all kinds of tasks that we here in The Hague think should be done by municipalities. Shouldn't you turn it around? Shouldn't you ask people: what is your community? What kind of politics does that involve? What is the municipality as a political reflection of your community? How big does it have to be? Is that your village? Are those three villages? Are those five villages? Is it your city? Then you look at which tasks can be included and which cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u138	That is, of course, an interesting discussion. It actually transcends the subject of reclassifications and is about what I have just outlined, namely: can we create more space within the system that we have to make this kind of thing possible? I think we can see that even more and more is happening in the country, that municipalities, regions, provinces, aldermen, city councilmen and also the inhabitants of our municipalities are very well able to choose their own form. You actually do it from the bottom. Then you don't start to mess with the structures, but you look at what people think is the best solution for the issues they run into. Then you will see that different choices are made in it. My task then is to think about whether we should amend the legislation in order to create more room for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u139	That sounds good. Because in fifteen years I've done 200 reclassifications and we've kicked a very large group of people into the shins 200 times. That is bad for trust in democracy, I can give the Minister. Is it possible for municipalities to become smaller again? In Southeast Friesland there are now 83 cores. That's a crazy size for a community. Suppose people say our village with five villages around it is our community. Then you say: okay, that's your congregation; these are the tasks you can do and these are the tasks you can't do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u140	I think we're past the stage of big is beautiful, of bigger is always better. It's about scale. Scale is sometimes needed, but not to scale itself but because then you can perform certain tasks better. I was just saying in response to Mr Krol's question: why not give city councils the choice? Suppose there's such a large merged community, with a lot of cores. That doesn't have to be bad at all, when you also offer space for those cores to stay very close to their village, for example through village councils or otherwise. So I don't think you can say it's always good and the other always bad. I think there should be much more customization, that you should leave almost area-oriented, regional-oriented, on the spot, choice for one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u141	Then it is the danger that you think of Thorbecke's house again a new layer of administration. 'Cause what have we got? We've got all the regions. We have all the security regions. We have all kinds of other regions. Then there are those insanely large congregations. Then you will also have a parliament of your own in every core. Yeah, then we're really masoning and closing the place. My question was: can we not just have besides the country and the provinces municipalities where people say "my municipality is so big"? Then we can come up with tasks. So I am not talking about all kinds of aid structures in between. They're just not democratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u142	Now I'm trying to see if I can still follow Mr Van Raak. When he says that within the house of Thorbecke there is no room for this at all, I say: my plea is that within the existing house of Thorbecke we have to make that space, so that much more from below, by the people who go about it themselves, who are working on it, can be made a choice for the way they want to practice it. Then we will see that some still opt for a reclassification, while others opt for something else, for example for thematic orientation. For example, they choose to invest the social domain on a larger scale because otherwise they can't handle it, but prefer to keep the size of the social domain for other things. It is an extremely interesting debate. I'm confident we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u143	Please continue with your speech. There are still several topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u144	Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions under this chapter. First of all, Mr Krol was somewhat critical because he was given the impression in the reading on Thorbecke that the word "counter-thinkers" came out in a negative way. It was not meant to be like that, I say to Mr Krol. In fact, we're all opponents. At the moment when someone poses a statement, Mr Krol will automatically think against it. That's human and that's good. That is actually an expression of the fact that we are all critical citizens. For example, the word "counterthinking" was meant in the Thorbecke reading. Mrs Van der Graaf has drawn attention to the decline in population, the shrinkage. She pointed out that the Action Plan on Population Reduction was due to expire next year and she also wanted to know whether it would be possible to assess the impact of policy choices on regions in advance. I think that we need to take much more account of differences in policy choices. That can indeed be in the population composition and growth versus shrinkage. So that's a fair point. So we need to focus on this area-based approach that takes into account how policy choices can work out for a particular region at the front. In areas with a decline in population, the same overarching themes still play. In the housing market it seems as if we are only talking about the entire tense housing market areas, but of course it is also about the shrinking regions where they have a very different task; I am thinking, for example, of an ageing population on which housing stock is no longer tailored. So that certainly has my attention. I also discuss it with fellow executives, such as Mr De Jonge, who, of course, is concerned with care for the elderly. Of course, I do that from my wallet housing market. So that all has to come together. I had proposed that this area-based approach, including for shrinking regions, should be developed in a letter to your Chamber. I aim to have that here at the end of November. Then I would like to ask how we are going to proceed with that Action Plan on the reduction of population, more specifically in that letter, and I would also like to say that I can tell you now that we need to evaluate that Action Plan in order to learn from it. Then there is another important point. Mrs. Kuik and Mr. Bishop pointed out that you want a public administration that works. We can imagine that you differentiate, sometimes having to deviate from uniform frameworks. However, they mentioned an example of a very topical problem, namely the problem of drug waste. That is an extremely risky problem and potentially very risky one, but I think it is a good example of something that various parties have a responsibility for and should also take, because the phenomenon seems to be increasing rather than decreasing at the moment. There is a need for real cooperation between the municipalities involved in this. We've seen in the media what's happened in residential areas lately. The provinces also have a role in it. This also applies to us in The Hague from different angles. I mention the Ministry of the Environment of IenW, the Ministry of JenV because of the crime and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for putting the municipalities in a position. So I'm sure you've heard that you've drawn attention to that. We will continue to work on it as well. Mr. Chairman. Then there are some more questions about local democracy. I can now tell Mrs Kuik that I am going a little too fast, but I feel a little haunted by the chairman. So if Mrs. Kuik has one more question about it, I would very much like to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u145	Absolutely. Mrs. Chicken of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u146	Budget had been made available to address the way in which private or private organisations were penalised by drug dumping. In part, this pot has not been underspent, but in the meantime that scheme has been stopped, which means that it can no longer be used effectively. That is why I share the suggestion that we proceed to continuity and see how we can perhaps ease that arrangement. I would very much like an answer to that. I have deliberately not yet tabled an amendment, precisely because I know that there was still under-utilisation, as was made clear to me last night, but I am still looking for a solution. So I'm gonna need a handshake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u147	Yes, very good. Maybe I should have said that more specifically myself. Mrs Kuik rightly pointed out that money was made available for this problem through the budget of the Ministry of IenW in the previous period. As a result of Mrs Kuik's question, I went into it a little more deeply and it appears that the resources made available are not exhausted. What I am offering her is that I should also like to involve JenV, in consultation with my colleague, so that I can make sure that this money, which is simply not used, can be used for the purpose for which it is intended. I would then be able to inform your Chamber in writing of the outcome of that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u148	Then Mrs Kuik might want to know a time, because we have to vote on the amendments at some point. Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u149	Exactly. Thank you for this commitment. I would like it very much to be confirmed that this is being continued, despite the fact that the scheme has been discontinued by September. Otherwise, in fact, it's no use to you, and I don't think that's the point. Secondly, I would very much like to have an answer for the JenV budget, because then I can check with colleagues whether the cabinet has come up with a good solution or whether we say: this problem is so big that we want to do something additional. Then we can use that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u150	I can imagine that very well. I do not know when the JenV budget is, by the way, but that seems to me to be a relevant moment. I understand. The same goes for the IenW budget, because that is where the money is currently sitting. My main aim would therefore be to ensure that the money that has not been spent can still be spent and go into consultation with them if we think that this also needs food in the period after or that the problem has changed, so that we have to come up with an improved proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u151	For the record, the JenV budget is in the week of 20, 21 and 22 November. Finalizing, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u152	Thank you. I think this is feasible by 23 November. Also thank you for the commitment that the money can be used if it is clear how to make better use of it, despite the discontinuation of the scheme. In any case, this is an important first hand, so thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u153	Yes, the promise stands. I'm gonna do my best to do that. The deadline certainly seems feasible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u155	Mr. Chairman. We have already said a number of things about local democracy. Many questions have been asked and comments made on them. We've had municipal elections. When you look at the electoral programmes across the board, from left to right, it is often about facilitating, supporting, enabling, promoting, connecting and bringing together in the municipalities and in the deployment of parties. Those are the terms that come back very often. This is all due to the desire to revitalize local democracy, not from the town hall I just said that I am also trying not to work from the tower of BZK but from the city, from the village, from the municipality, from the conversation, the dialogue with the inhabitants. I think that is important, so on the basis of a good foundation, representative democracy, in a new social reality with all kinds of phenomena that have taken a huge turn, such as digitisation and social media, about which we have just said some things, but also the changing tasks of decentralisation. That simply requires a great deal of local democracy. In this context, Mrs Özütok asked, but others also asked, Mrs Den Boer, Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Krol, Mr Bisschop, for attention to support for council members in small municipalities. We've talked about that before. Actually, we agree. I have also said that I think that the remuneration in small municipalities is disproportionate to the work, because the amount of work there is actually as large as in the larger municipalities. I therefore believe that something should be done. Some of you have also pointed that out in the budget. I've reserved $10 million for that. Yeah, that's occasional money; the Chamber's got that right. That is because I believe that the council members should be able to receive a higher remuneration in small municipalities. Just putting money in it isn't necessarily the best answer. I'm talking to the VNG about that councilman's fee. In my opinion, there is room in the Gemeentefonds to ensure a structurally higher remuneration for those council members. That $10 million is actually meant to be a bridge. My wish in the conversation with the VNG is: make sure that savings resulting from austerity in the benefits of aldermen and mayors are used to bring that council members' allowance to a structural level in the small municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u156	I hear the Minister say that she too is convinced that it is a good thing that this increase is not a one-off but a structural one. Discussions are still taking place with the VNG. I would like to repeat a specific question from my first term. How is the EUR 10 million that has been made available once, then divided now? There are many questions about this at the VNG and at the Dutch Association for Council Members. Can the Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u157	A very small amount of frustration may sometimes sound, because I had hoped to have already arranged it for the council members in the small municipalities. The discussion on structural cover has therefore not yet taken place. Those are the facts. I really hope to get out very quickly. Together with the VNG, I hope to be able to say soon that we have used the 10 million for the present and that the VNG has now found room in the Community Fund to carry it through in a structural manner. Then we're just talking about remuneration for council members in small municipalities. This has to be brought to the level of the second category compensation, just above that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u158	At what time does the Minister intend to get out with the UNG?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u159	I am always optimistic and I hope that the VNG and the council members of smaller municipalities will listen in today, so that this is an additional incentive to get out of here quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u160	I call Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u161	Thank you for having the Minister's attention on this issue as well. There is always discussion about the distribution system used, whether it is the province or the municipality. I hear the Minister now saying that there is actually room. I have heard the annoyance with a number of municipalities and with a number of spokesmen about the reference to the Municipal Fund or the Accres. It's always said there's space in there. This is gonna be all right now. I don't actually see that space. How does the Minister intend to find room there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u162	That's a very fair question. I'm making it very concrete. The maximum duration of benefits for aldermen and mayors has been reduced from six to four and ultimately goes to three years and two months. The maximum duration of a continued benefit has also been reduced from 15 to 10. That's gonna be five years in the end. These are structural savings, which continue to work for a long time. I'll be the last one to say: that accres is so big and everything can be out of there. No, you can't. I totally agree with anyone who says that. My conversation with the VNG is about seeing a real, structural, long-term saving compared to an intensification that we all want. I also think it is my responsibility to point this out and to look with the UNG to see if we can carry the structural nourishment of these costs in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u163	I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify this with the UNG and inform us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u164	It is good that the Minister has concrete ideas and steps in this direction. I appreciate that very much, but I have made the problem a little broader by also mentioning statesmen. There's a similar situation going on there. Does the Minister also have concrete intentions, plans, ideas for this layer of administration? Are there any steps ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u165	So far, the discussion has mainly focused on council members in small municipalities. Mr Bishop has drawn attention to this earlier and it sometimes comes up elsewhere. We have to be real. If there are such signals coming from the provinces, the members of the States, the IPO, then of course we have to look seriously at them. But for the time being, what I have just said to Mr Bishop, and also the 10 million, see in principle on the small municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u166	Yeah, I heard that. However, when a year or so, thirteen or so, or so it was decided to reduce the size of the States, it has always been said that this meant that a wider budget for sitting members of the States would be available; so this point already played a part. That died a soft death somewhere bearded, I don't know where, but it's never been mentioned again. Since we now have this point for council members of small municipalities on the agenda, I think it would be elegant if we took the initiative from the Empire to simply take up and take the lead in that omission, the point that remained. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u167	Let me say to Mr Bishop that if I inform the Chamber about the outcome of the talks with the VNG on municipal council members in small municipalities, I will take this issue with me. I would also like to look at what Mr Bishop is describing here about the arrangements made by a small, what is it, ten or twelve years ago. I myself have always stressed the decentralisations and additional tasks assigned to all municipalities, which have an extra burden on the council members in the small municipalities; this was also the case in the recommendation made at the time by the VNG. That's an important motive for me to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u168	But you're admitting you're taking this with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u169	The promise stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u170	Fine. Is that okay, Mr. Bishop? Then I go on to Mr Öztürk of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u171	Is there any idea of the structural cost of the increase per year if we were to implement this measure? I don't hear that amount. You've just pulled $10 million out of the top hat, I see. In addition, I see that the Christian Union, your coalition partner, has a very big story in the media: small communities get money! Then you give the ball back and the municipalities have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u172	I don't give a shit. Through me, please. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u173	No, the Christian Union and others have been drawing attention to the issue of council members in the small municipalities for some time now. They're right about that. I also agree with them by reserving EUR 10 million in my budget for this purpose. So the dispute is not about whether that remuneration should go up, but how we can do it. In addition, I also keep a little eye on the little ones, so to speak. That 10 million is incidental, but if you were to carry it through structurally, that would be enough to cover it financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u174	The amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u175	10 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u176	But I didn't hear the structural amount per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u177	It's about that order of magnitude structural. So that 10 million could, so to speak, cover the first year. If you make that structural, this issue will be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u178	Okay. So if we come up with a motion or amendment on this right away, you say that there is room for you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u179	I would advise against that, I think, because I would very much like to have that conversation with the VNG and because I believe that this can be covered in a different way, namely from the savings that are currently being made in exactly the same domain in the Community Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u180	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u181	I won't get there until the second term. There were a number of questions on this subject. Mrs Den Boer asked if we should not even look at it. This has also been suggested by the Dutch Association for Council Members of the European Parliament for a retirement fund. It is not just about compensation, it is also about support. Mrs. Van der Graaf asked for that too. She added the individual drawing right. Municipalities and municipal councils must, of course, take good care of their support. I think it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to help and support this as best as possible. And with the Democracy in Action programme, I will be working with the municipalities this year with this equipment and support from the council. We are doing it step by step, first of all by occasionally making additional budget available to municipal councils and clerks who can prove their work on educating and equiping their city council members. To this end, I will be inviting municipalities this year. I've got three years' worth of money for that. You could call it a kind of fund for training, training and substantive support for council members, political groups and the Registry. This budget is sufficient for about 20 municipalities to participate. Of course, that's what we want to learn from. We'll see what works and how you could do it in other places. I support the municipalities with the Democracy in Action programme by including them in an intergovernmental team where it can. But I do find the idea of an equipment fund attractive, and I think I am already working in that direction, so I will take that into account. I come before the summer of 2019 with a progress report. I'd be happy to take that with me. Mrs Özütok and Mrs Van der Graaf also paid attention to the right to challenge. That's what the coalition agreement says. We've talked about that a lot. In the Plan of Approach Reinforcement Local Democracy and Governance I said: I want to implement that and create room for that. We all know great examples of how this happens in different municipalities. I myself have expressed the ambition that it would be nice to double the number of municipalities in which this type of initiative flourishes. I would like to give further thought to that. In fact, there was a motion by Mr Segers during the general considerations which call for this. I myself feel the most for a form that frees congregations to right to challenge on their own local style. I think that's possible. I think that, if you want to translate that into legislation, we run the risk that it will lead to uniformity, and that is not really it. Yesterday there was a beautiful article in the NRC that illustrates this: that is different in every municipality. The point is that you create the space for the challenge and that it also comes a bit into the culture of the municipalities and the municipal councils, and that they themselves decide on the budgets, on how they shape that engagement and on what topics it is about. Legislation is not the route I would like to take, but I can imagine asking the VNG if it can draw up a model regulation that municipalities can take as a basis for their own local right-to-challenge procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u182	I did indeed ask for the right to challenge to include the possibility of legally anchoring the arrangements. Of course, it is the choice of a municipality to do so, but as there is a need from the citizen's point of view to take over all kinds of public tasks from the local government, on the other hand, there is a great need to move beyond mere non-committalism and merely to let it take place by the municipality. That is why I am committed to including this possibility. What's the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u183	In part, it's unfamiliar. That is why it is so important to give the good examples that are there, let's say Tilburg as a good example, because yesterday it happened to be in that beautiful article to make it work as an illustration of how it can be done. Because it's a mentality shift of "we're just looking at the rules and what we can't do" to "no, we're looking at what residents want and how we can make that possible." I am convinced that there is no need to change the law. I am very willing to do so, by the way, in order to help these municipalities from BZK. In my view, what is at the heart of the matter is that the municipalities, and also the city council, which is ultimately in charge, say: we see the added value of giving this power, so to speak, out of the hands of this group of people, residents of our municipalities, to take on these tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u184	Short closing words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u185	Very briefly. I would like the Minister to highlight the fine examples in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u186	I certainly see opportunities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u187	The Minister talks about revitalising local democracy and strengthening local government. But I think that also means helping when things go south. We talked about it on Tuesday: the municipality of Dongen has a company that violates environmental rules on a large scale. The municipality of Dongen has sent a letter to the cabinet asking me to paraphrase: help us. The Minister says: I am sending that letter to my colleague from IenW, but the Minister for the Interior is, of course, responsible for the functioning of local government. If the local government, in this case the mayor of Dongen, asks the government to help him, because the problem is too big for the municipality, then I wonder why the minister does not say: we are going to see how we can help the municipality and how we can generally combat this type of very serious environmental crime. Because this environmental crime does not stick to municipal boundaries, there are more municipalities that have problems with it. Why not look as a cabinet to see how these municipalities can be offered the helping hand, and in this particular case how the municipality of Dongen can be offered the helping hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u188	The starting point of this cabinet is that, when municipalities ask for help, we naturally try to help them. In this particular case, it is in the field of agriculture, and therefore of Mr Schouten. That is why you have seen in my written reply that I am bringing this point to the attention, probably entirely affluent, because Mr Schouten is no doubt already aware of this. Because it is not the case that when there is a problem in a municipality and that municipality that wants to raise it in The Hague, it should always be with the Minister of the Interior. Where necessary, I am always willing to help and cooperate with colleagues. So it seemed to me most logical to put this issue first with Mrs Schouten. If it is necessary for BZK to help or in any way have involvement, I am of course happy to do so. But I'd like to fly it down that route and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u189	A small correction: the Minister of IenW is not Minister Schouten but Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen. Reference was made to IenW. But this is environmental crime, which is a structural problem. Here's what I'm asking. A number of years ago it was decided to have this kind of problem solved by municipalities and provinces. And now we're getting the signal that it's been thrown over the fence and that it's too big for us. My question is therefore whether the Minister is prepared to examine whether the Empire, or the Cabinet, should not perhaps be a little more general in its direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u190	First of all, I apologise, because Mr Wassenberg is quite right. I should not have mentioned Mr Schouten but the colleague from IenW. That was still wrong in a concept so I had it in my head.But fortunately in the written sets it looks good. On the second point, we are actually back on the subject where it started, for example the undermining and tackling organised crime and crime. So the answer to that is yes. Then there must also be cooperation. Then you cannot simply say: it is just there and we are not doing everything around it. So I can imagine that. And if it helps, of course, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u191	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u192	Then I would like to place a second interruption here, about a similar problem in another case. We have also asked questions about a written response from the Minister to the authorisation in livestock farming. Then it was written: we forward it to the Minister of LNV. But here it is that provinces and municipalities are responsible for licensing. We are now faced with the consequences of this as a state, because in the end we still have 200 million to pay for the warm clean-up. Apparently something went wrong. Does the Minister agree with me that mistakes have been made in the granting of permits? Otherwise, we wouldn't have to pay the 200 million. Are the rules too broad? But above all: what can the cabinet learn from these mistakes? Or are we going to pay another 200 million for hot clean-up next year, because rules have been misinterpreted by municipalities and provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u193	This was another question the Party for Animals asked on Tuesday evening. I did refer this question to college Schouten. And I think it's going well in this case. I find it difficult to give an answer here to the extent of detail that is now being asked. I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture really has the lead in this, but in general the same answer applies as before. We need to work together. This is true between the ministries and between the Empire and other governments, in this case the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u194	I'll come back to the right to challenge, the challenge. I am very pleased that this Minister indicates that she wants to double the number of municipalities that are working on this. I see very good examples in the country, which we must follow closely. I would also like to ask the Minister if she is aware of the issue. Her call to offer local customization, I can totally support. This would also be possible if the challenge law, or the right to take over, were to be anchored nationally, because that would also contribute to a bit of awareness and legal certainty for citizens, who sometimes get zero in one municipality and who, fortunately, find cooperation in other municipalities. Would the Minister also like to include this in her considerations? I know that Leiden University has done research and that in an interim report she was not very enthusiastic about anchoring it nationwide, because she did not see the solution to all the problems. I can even endorse that, because very often problems are practical in nature...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u195	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u196	But anchoring a challenge law nationwide would contribute to legal certainty and familiarity. Would the Minister also like to take this into account and still look at a country-wide arrangement, so that it can be taken up at national level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u197	Mrs Van der Graaf says it herself: you want it to happen more, that there will be more awareness for the phenomenon, and that municipalities also have the confidence that it can. That is why we must also pay attention to it from here. But I think, and with me also district experts, to advise a bit that way that a formal anchoring in a law, for example, leads to a form of uniformity that is not really helpful in bringing about what the right to challenge can bring. Perhaps the model regulation to be drawn up by the VNG will come a long way towards what Mrs Van der Graaf is asking, namely that municipalities be made easier to apply that right to challenge in their municipalities. But I will involve that in my consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u198	Then I understand this intermediate step as well. The Minister says: I would like to wait and see this model regulation first. However, I would ask the Minister whether, at the time she receives that regulation, she would also like to include the considerations of legal certainty and national awareness. We'd like to hear the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u199	I would like to say that to Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u200	On behalf of the CDA, I am just doing something else, because it is not just about what municipalities do and organise as governments. It's about the relationship between citizen and government. The government doesn't need to fix everything for you, but you need to be able to shape it together. So I do not know whether I would like to have a model regulation without the law asking municipalities to make a regulation after citizens have been granted a right. I would really like to call on the Minister to seriously consider giving citizens a right together, so that a municipality can then say in a regulation: and this is how we do it locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u201	I think we're looking for a way to anchor citizens' involvement in municipalities. We don't think we can impose it completely from above, because that would be too uniform. We also think that it may not always come about from the bottom up in a way that we would like. We have also said in the coalition agreement that we are going to achieve more right to challenge. The VNG has not yet promised this, but my suggestion is a model regulation. That must be a model regulation that allows for the local consideration and a local interpretation of that right to challenge. So everyone has a bit of an angle of their own, but I think we all have the same goal, namely that more is being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u202	A former colleague in this house, Mrs Mona Keijzer, not entirely unknown to you, has, for example, in the Libraries Act............................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this context, it is still settled that you may take your own initiative and take over a task. So we are not entirely unknown in this country to arrange that. The beauty of this rule of law and leaving room for municipalities to implement by means of a regulation is that people can put a finger on something and say: wait, I would like this; how are you going to help me? I would expect a D66 minister to appeal to you too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u203	Yeah, but I don't think we disagree at all on the content either. The question is just how useful it is to do all this through a legislative amendment. I will take into account the considerations of Mr Van der Molen, and indeed those of Mrs Van der Graaf, in the further development. I continue to warn against the fact that a formal amendment of the law can lead to the opposite of what we want, but I have heard Members correctly. So let us agree that I will come back to that when it comes to the further development and that I will take that into account as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u204	Thank you. How many cubes do you have left, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u205	Just the other block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u206	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u207	Fortunately, some of them have already been discussed in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u208	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u209	But Mrs Den Boer has raised another important issue. She spoke the unforgettable phrase "women are not unfit as MPs." From this position, may I wholeheartedly endorse that? Diversity of political ministers is really an issue for me, for Mrs Den Boer and for others I have heard about it. This is, of course, about diversity in all kinds of ways. After a small year in this position, I can see the trends a little bit. 25% of all mayors are women right now. In 2006, that was 20%. So it's going up, but to say that that's going super fast would really be an exaggeration. With aldermen, we're at 26%. Here we come from 18%. For council members, it's 31% now. That was 26%. So it's going the right way. But now I have only talked about man-woman diversity and not at all about other forms of diversity, for example people with a migration background or people with disabilities. It's not gonna happen by itself. That is also a conviction that I now have. I thought it was also Mrs. Den Boer who quoted Julia Wouters' book. I thought that was interesting. She writes in her book The side of power.... a beautiful title............................................................................................................................................ I think that's true. To zoom in on the issue of man-woman, it seems that sometimes women need a little more time or have a little more conversation before they are willing to take the step to make themselves available for a political office. If so, we must take that into account in our processes. This applies to political parties when they discuss their candidate lists or their candidate aldermen or directors, and it also applies to the government in the performance of functions. It also applies to the other target groups. So you need to find the right tools to accelerate these kinds of developments, which are in themselves but which are going too slowly. At the end of last year, I organised a round table on the theme of diversity and I am having a study of structural barriers for people with disabilities to become active as political ministers. Others are also busy. For example, the Dutch Society of Mayors is working on a programme for side-instromers. There is a lot going on, but I agree with Mrs Den Boer that we will have to pay constant attention to this. I would also like to see, after completion of the recent ongoing procedures surrounding the King's Commissioners, whether I can draw lessons from them. I'd like to inform your Chamber about that. Ms Özütok van GroenLinks asked for social security in the workplace. That is, of course, an important issue. #MeToo has received a lot of attention, and rightly so. This also needs to be taken into account by the government. I think it is extremely important that anyone who works for the government can do so in a safe working environment. A trusted person who can do his or her work completely independently is essential. Fortunately, the independence of that trusted person is well secured in the regulation, because that trusted person should never suffer any adverse consequences in relation to the exercise of the task. It is therefore an independent confidant, which is also protected in the general measure of governance, the Internal whistleblower regime of the Empire, Police and Defence. Each ministry has a central integrity coordinator and there is also a network of trusted persons in the organisation, so that they are also relatively close and accessible to people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u210	Mrs Özütok, because it was your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u211	Thank you for clarifying the classification in the ministries, but it is about the approach when there is a complaint, how this complaint is dealt with and how the victims are dealt with. That treatment is not really taking place adequately. There are some examples, but I am not going to mention them here. That's my concern. So I don't think the independence of the trusted people in this structure seems to be working, hence my request for an independent confidant. Maybe it could be placed outside the organization. The moment an incident occurs and one does not come out with one another, it could also have a secondopinion function.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u212	I understand. One. There is a system of trusted people, who must indeed be able to do their work independently. But Mrs Öztürk says: what if that doesn't work? It may happen in incidental cases that this does not work properly in practice. What do you do? We also have, of course, the Internal whistleblower regime Empire for that. That is also a possibility if people think that something has gone wrong internally and they want to go the other way. It is also obvious that there is not one confidant but several. In extreme cases, if this has not worked properly, you could, so to speak, also look outside the organization. I do not now have the impression that this is necessary, but there is a state-wide inventory in progress, which is ready before the end of the year. I wanted to share it with your room anyway. So let me zoom in on this and see if we have any clues that should lead to you doing something outside the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u213	Mrs Özütok nods and agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u214	Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u215	I would like to return to the previous topic, the diversity. Sorry, I'm getting out of the starting blocks a little slow. The Minister says that it is also about other forms of diversity. She talks about subtle exclusion mechanisms. When progressive people talk about diversity, it's never about political diversity. Among senior officials, for example, a party like D66 is involved, but it also applies to GroenLinks, very, very popular. There is a huge over-representation. There has sometimes been a judge who has stated at the VPRO: if you are from the PVV, you cannot become a judge. Being a PVV guy is a contra-indication. I see in the latest report of the STUDY a story that it is important to keep persons within the Defence Organization who adhere to an extremist mindset, etc., out there. Often my party's ideas are also considered extremist. What exactly does the Minister do in terms of diversity when it comes to opinions and how does she do her best to bring down the number of D66s, for example among top officials?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u216	The answer is nothing. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Middendorp's question. He's over there. He presented a five-point plan for a digital government that works. This is, by the way, a part in which both the Secretary of State and I have a responsibility. We feel strongly supported by Mr Middendorp's five-point plan. We made a number of proposals ourselves in a letter dated 11 October 2018. I think we can see that the points made by Mr Middendorp and the intentions expressed in the letter touch on a very large number of areas. I can conclude by saying that, at least in Mr Middendorp's view, we are on the right track. For example, he has asked for attention to attract good people to the government, who have knowledge of ICT. We need to be able to attract and retain those people. The shortage of the labour market, especially ICTs, makes it difficult sometimes. Fortunately, however, we have opportunities, for example, in the form of a periodic labour market allowance, i.e. without a structural adjustment to the wage building, to attract people with specific expertise for specific functions. In any case, that makes the Empire a very attractive employer, as an employer, even more attractive. We as the Empire can often use the private sector and the knowledge that is there. I have already said that I will return to that in the Strategic I Agenda of the State Service. Then we'll also talk about how we use new products and opportunities around, for example, the public cloud. Mr Middendorp also has another proposal. He also says: shouldn't we go to a state inspection for digitisation? That is a point on which we still need to have a proper exchange of views. To some extent I understand the analogy with the Inspection of the National Finances, but on the other hand it is partly about something else, especially that digitisation side. You could say that you cannot copy the solution of the state inspection one-on-one on what we have to do in this domain. Part of it is also about connecting knowledge and skills. That doesn't necessarily require a state inspection. I was also talking about sharing best practices and attracting talents in ICT. I think that Mr Middendorp will feel served on all other points in the letter of 11 October 2018 and the impact it will have, but at the point of inspection I would like to say to Mr Middendorp that I am going to fill this in which I am curious to see if he can get away with it. Finally, I should perhaps like to give something to Mr Middendorp. I can't imagine a VVD man trying to create a huge control burden or create a whole accountability circus. It's got to be a little lean and mean, too. I hope that Mr Middendorp and the other members of the Chamber have seen that with this letter from BZK we are taking a firm step, which has not yet been taken, and take an extra responsibility to ensure that we are going to do this more effectively with all of us, of course also very much encouraged by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u217	Mr Krol gave Mr Middendorp a moment to place an interruption, because it is about this block. Then I'll come to you, Mr. Krol. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the VVD certainly does not want to propose at my mouth to rig up a bureaucratic circus or a recording device. The state inspection digitization we are talking about is certainly not an authority or external supervisor who comes to shoot projects or write thick reports. I hope to find support in this Chamber for that not to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u219	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u220	Does the Minister agree with me that in this digitalisation, without wishing to copy everything one-on-one, we really need to work differently and also try everything that can help to get those ICT projects under better control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u221	Yes, I think I follow Mr Middendorp completely there. Control must be improved, coordination must be improved and monitoring must be improved. That's exactly what this letter says. I am therefore prepared to do so, in agreement with colleagues in the cabinet. This is based on a ministerial decision. So it has a lot of consequences, not just for BZK, but for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u222	Thank you. Just a few more minutes. Look, the point is that we don't reinvent the wheel every time we go to every ministry. I think we agree on that. I therefore ask the Minister to see if, without copying anything from the Treasury, there are any elements that we could use in such a state inspection digitisation and then on top of that letter, for which indeed the VVD supports. If she wants to watch that, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u223	I have already consulted and will continue to discuss with my colleague in the finance department how best to do this. Once again, a real inspection as the IRF now carries out on finance does not seem to me to be necessary in order to achieve the objective that Mr Middendorp and I agree on. The goal is to learn as much from Finance as possible. That is why the conversation is conducted in that way. The Court of Auditors also gives grounds and concrete guidelines for improving such an integrated approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u224	Final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u225	I do not know if anything is necessary, but I would indeed like to discuss what elements are needed and what name we will give them. It seems to me that "state inspection digitization" is a nice thing, but we are going to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u226	This is about the titles; we're back. I give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have received comprehensive answers to all questions and points. One important point I missed in replying to the Minister: what is the state of play with regard to the elected mayor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u228	Then I'd be happy to give that answer now. The state of play is that the initiative legislative proposal Deconstitutionalisation will be dealt with on 13 November. The debate with the initiator has already taken place in this Chamber. I was there as an advisor to the cabinet. I also said at the time that the proposal under consideration is only about the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's designation. In addition or behind, there is no proposal to change the way the mayor is appointed. So I look forward to being present at the debate in the First Chamber on 13 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u229	Yes, Mr Öztürk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u230	The Minister is also a driving force behind the approach to discrimination. She coordinates them, too, but I didn't see her say anything about it today. I see she served the coalition well. She has answered all the questions of the coalition in detail. I have asked many questions about discrimination. I have also asked: have you actually been able to do something in the last six months, and can you mention some of these actions today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u231	Mr Öztürk is right: he has asked a question about this. I have dealt with this in the written reply. In fact, he asked whether the government consultation that I had said would be taking place had got off the ground. I explained to him in the written reply that the first government consultation is scheduled for November. And in all kinds of other debates where, for example, there is discrimination in the housing market, I have explained what kind of conversations are taking place with the parties. I believe that by not giving the answer orally, I do not alter the importance of the subject. Let me highlight that in the direction of Mr Öztürk. I think it is an extremely important subject. I think it is a subject that we can focus on together and which fortunately also happens a lot. Of course, I can't do it alone. This is typically one of those subjects that you have to pick up together. When it comes to the housing market, I want to do it together with parties active in the housing market. When it comes to the labour market, it must be done with the parties to the labour market. I do this together with my colleagues from SZW. I see it as a major step forward that we have put it so high on the agenda and that, as I know, there will be a first government consultation for the first time, so that we can look at it in its entirety and agree together on the actions to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u232	Unfortunately, this is the fate of tackling discrimination: planning. In November, we're gonna talk, there's gonna be a conference, we're gonna hire some people, we're gonna do some research and we're gonna run some campaigns on television. Then something happens again in society and the Chamber gets back together. Then we'll ask the Minister what she's done. I asked for concrete actions. Has the Minister ensured that temporary employment agencies that have discriminated against can no longer be awarded public contracts? Did she exclude a number of real estate agents from invitations to tender? Just acts that allow other people to see that you cannot and should not discriminate in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u233	I would like to say to Mr Öztürk that I fully agree with his last sentence. In the Netherlands, you cannot and must not discriminate. Where it happens, we have to act against it, and we do. We are debating the housing market and discrimination and the labour market and discrimination. With Mr Öztürk I regret that it is necessary, but it is necessary. We're gonna go through with it for as long as we can until the phenomenon is eradicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u234	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u235	I'm sorry to hear that, but I don't hear any actions from this minister. I believe that we will have to debate in this Chamber for decades to come to the point where action will actually be taken. Talk, talk, talk!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u236	Mr. Chairman. I think it is very important to raise the issue of the local audit offices. The Minister replied to the written questions. Thank you for that. I have two more points. The first is that there is a bill for the reinforcement of decentralised audit chambers. Those chambers of account are very important to assist municipal councils in understanding and explaining common regulations, applying them and all kinds of other things, such as the City Deal that is currently being concluded everywhere. Is it now the case that those legal safeguards which it speaks of are included in the written reply in the new Decentral Audit Boards Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u237	I believe that was indeed my intention. I shall look very carefully at the written reply. If it's any different, I'd like to get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u238	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u239	In addition to that. I had also asked a question about the role of the provinces and the supervisory role. The Minister replied that the provinces do not have them. I understand that, but my question is whether the provinces could play a supervisory role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u240	The question is whether that is necessary. I don't know if that'll help. At least it is not the current situation. Something in the law should change for that. I think it's much more important that it's properly secured in the municipalities. That's what I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u243	Mr Verhoeven, did you have a question that hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u244	Well, I just have a question. My question has been answered in writing and I have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u245	That's it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u246	The Minister writes sensible things about summer and winter time. It wants to coordinate them with other countries. That seems to me to be a very sensible start. The written reply also states that a poll will be held. I can imagine something about that in itself, because it is about people and they absolutely need to talk about this. It is certainly not something that politics should just decide. At the same time, it is an issue that many experts and scientists are discussing. A number of previous polls have shown that people are sensitive to the word "summer" compared to the word "winter." They tend to choose the word "summer." With this they also opt for a time that is completely separate from the summer. It's not as funny as it sounds. As far as I am concerned, it is a serious matter. Perhaps not for politics, but if we are going to hold a poll, I would ask the Minister to look very closely at the way in which we are going to ask for people's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u247	That is a very justified point by Mr Verhoeven. By the way, the people who carry out such a poll are, of course, highly expert in how to ask people questions. People must be well informed and not pushed in a certain direction. I can see it myself. Summertime speaks much more to the imagination and wintertime sounds gloomy, while wintertime is actually the standard time; so that's also a term you could use. I think it is very important that that poll, which we accompany from BZK, is accompanied by the provision of information. I think such a poll is important. I can see for myself that this subject is very much alive. I get some mails and things from people, but on this subject I get, more than on any other subject, opinions from people, just citizens from the Netherlands and scientists who have studied on this subject for a long time. So the subject is huge. As I have outlined in the process, we also need to do as much information as possible, and we need to do so in a careful way in this survey, and we also need to involve the views of the scientific community of experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u248	Finally, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u249	I had asked another question about the standardization of the heat demand of private property owners. I assume it will be answered by the Minister and not by the Secretary of State. In writing, the Minister refers to the Government's Juice of the Climate Agreement, but this appreciation dates back to 5 October. It says that the cabinet is still too early...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u250	Mr. Wassenberg, I'm getting the signal from the Registry that this is for the WHO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u251	No, that's fine. Then it'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u252	Fine. Then we'll do it at another time. I actually like to stop with Mr Verhoeven's question, because he talked about time, and I actually think it is time for lunch. So I thank the Minister for answering the questions. The Secretary of State's office will let us do the answer after lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-18-tweedekamer-5.u253	We go further at 10:30 p.m. and then we start with the votes and the order of business. After that, the Secretary of State will reply.
