ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	We now turn to Mr Van Oosten's question on behalf of the VVD to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, who replaces the Minister for Justice and Security. I would also like to welcome him. The question is about expanding DNA storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, the NFI, the Dutch Forensic Institute, came up with the idea of allowing the current DNA database to have a much wider scope for the detection of serious criminal offences, murder, manslaughter, whether or not combined with rape. In other words, more DNA material, the so-called Y profile, is stored than it is now, so that it can also be shown that there is a connection between the trace found at the crime scene and the information contained in the DNA database. This idea, of course, sounds very good in itself, at least I think. For once you move into the father or mother who lost his or her child in a horrible way, while there may also have been traces found at the place where it took place, which may lead to the finding of the perpetrator. At the same time, I do realise that a proposal such as this could involve more factors, for example whether such a database should be able to extend to groups of people who have not been proven to have gone wrong. That is precisely why I would like to know from the Secretary of State, who is replacing the Minister, whether he is prepared to examine this idea thoroughly and carefully, and to identify what opportunities we can and can expect to avail ourselves of, in order to be able to discuss them in the House of Representatives. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security, I can inform Mr Van Oosten that we share his interest and admiration for the possibilities of DNA research. We would also like to use this powerful tool as widely as possible within the limits of the law. For starters, the technique is already available. If necessary, a prosecutor may already, in the context of a specific DNA-related investigation, determine that a Y-chromosomal profile is to be established of all suspects and convicted persons whose cell material is kept at the NFI. We can't do it in classic DNA tests. We do not see any legal possibilities for that. I do not recognise, also in the light of the ECHR, the need to establish a Y-chromosomal DNA profile in classical DNA testing of all suspects and convicted persons. The classical examination is intended to determine whether the DNA profile of the suspect or convicted DNA from the cell material corresponds to the DNA profile of one or more traces in the study. The determination of Y-chromosomal DNA profiles for the purpose of establishing kinship is therefore outside the scope of classical DNA research. This investigation, unlike the DNA related research, is not directed towards that. In short, what Mr Van Oosten wants can already be achieved by the route of DNA related research. In addition, a specific legal basis should be included in the DNA related research scheme in order to be able to store Y-chromosomal DNA profiles determined in the context of a related study in the DNA database and use them in the future in a new DNA related study. That is also in line with the spirit of the regulation of DNA related research. This has already been seen and will be taken into account in the context of the amendment of the DNA study in convicted persons promised to your Chamber. That amendment provides that minors sentenced to community service of less than 40 hours shall not be required to donate any cell material. This addition is now added. I understand that the intention is to present this amendment later this year, in winter, to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	Oh, my God, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answers, but I'd like to test them, too. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State is actually saying that soon in the Lower House there will be a law for treatment which actually regulates that the Y chromosome is taken by default, and that it will also be checked by default whether there is a match with information contained in the DNA database and the traces found at the crime scene? Because that's what I want researched. If I may, Mr President, I would like to briefly mention two other points that follow on from this. In this respect, the Minister is sorry that the State Secretary, not the Minister, has in the summer, following a lot of information that came to us, indicated that he wants to have a discussion with the House of Representatives on the obligation to give up DNA in the event of serious crimes. I'd like to hear what we can expect from the Secretary of State. What direction does the minister take in that? Does he want a debate? Does he want colleagues to ask for a debate? What's gonna happen? I have another related point, on which I have asked two written questions on which I have received the same answer twice, which may happen for the third time. I don't like it. At the NFI, blood samples are on the shelf of convicted sex offenders, I'm told. Those blood samples were taken once for all kinds of reasons. They weren't taken for the purpose of extracting DNA, but of course they can, especially with modern technology. I also assume we know whose blood samples are. If we aim together to ensure that the DNA database is up-to-date and provides good information about the people who are at risk in our society because they have been proven, then I would like that information to be included in the DNA database as well. And then maybe that consent is necessary, but at least let's try to get that permission. Do we even know how many blood samples we're talking about? Do we know who they are? Has the address file been put in order by now? Why aren't these people signed up for? Or is that already done? If so, I hope to hear it now. Why aren't next of kin written asking if they're willing to hand over that information so that it can be included in the DNA database?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	That was three questions. With regard to the first question, the following. It is not that in the future that Y-chromosomal profile is determined by default. At least that's not in the plan yet. For example, the costs and the like must first be identified, because that would be an additional act. However, the Y profiles already determined in the framework of DNA related research are intended to be added to the database. That legal basis also needs to be added. Then there are the other two questions. The first question was about the compulsory donation of DNA in related studies. I can be brief about that. Currently, the regulation of the DNA relationship study is being evaluated. On the basis of the results of this study, the Minister will be very happy to hold the debate with your Chamber, including the aspects mentioned by Mr Van Oosten. Finally, the last question about the blood samples on the shelf. I understood from the Minister that Mr Van Oosten had already been promised that we would look at all aspects carefully and look at everything. We will come back to that at the time when the evaluation of the Wet DNA investigation in convicted persons is presented to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr President, I'm running out of time, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	You've got ten seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. Can he promise me anything? Suppose the law that comes to us doesn't fully cover what the NFI is proposing. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate that part thoroughly and see if that DNA database can work even better than it already does? It is my duty to ensure that we catch those who committed atrocious crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	Of course, the Minister, in consultation with the chain partners, the Public Prosecutor and the NFI, will do everything in his power to ensure that this is properly sorted out. As for what is possible, it will also be considered whether or not something should be in the law. But I will leave that balance to the Minister, also on the basis of the information he will receive from the chain partners. In the end, it is also up to Mr Van Oosten and the Chamber to assess this in the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	Sometimes developments go so fast that you can't keep up with them. There's been a lot going on in the DNA field lately. I myself would be delighted if a letter would be sent to the Chamber, setting out briefly what we can expect in the future in the field of DNA. There are many ethical aspects to this debate. I think it would be a good thing for the subject not to do so immediately in legal proceedings, but to know about matters well in advance. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State if there can be a brief letter on what we can expect in this area in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	I will pass that wish on to the Minister and promise on his behalf that he will come forward with that letter in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	I saw eye contact with the officials. Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. After the suspension, we'll vote.
