ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the availability and affordability of housing. Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We have a four-minute debate. I propose that four questions be put during the debate in the first period. You can do it once, you can do it twice in a row, but we're keeping up. I give the floor to Mr Krol as the first speaker and applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. There's a housing shortage. Professor Priemus estimates that 85,000 homes are to be built every year. The Minister strives for 75,000 homes per year. The big builders calculate that a total of 1 million homes will be needed in the coming years. We are on the eve of a major wave of construction, similar to reconstruction. Housing corporations are the main partners when it comes to social housing. They have to build houses and keep them affordable. Unfortunately, they are struggling with a pile of taxes. Aedes calculated that they would have to pay an additional 1 billion per year to corporation tax and landlord tax by means of government measures. This tax would amount to EUR 2 billion a year, billions that are not invested in homes. 50PLUS wants the landlord's tax to be abolished or at least suspended until the waiting lists are normalized. Link it to a strict covenant for housing. The coverage can be found in maintaining the dividend tax. We expect that there are no macro economists who can justify that abolishing the dividend tax is better for the Netherlands than abolishing the landlord's tax. The housing policy is decentralised. In municipalities with severe housing shortage, there is an expansion and expansion where possible, perhaps at the expense of the urban environment, traffic attacks during the morning rush and the city park which is too busy on leisure days to relax. Apart from overcrowded cities, there are shrinking areas. Will The Hague become a New York by the sea while 100 kilometers away even the bakery on the corner can't survive? In the Minister's letter, she announced that in the National Environment Vision, she would emphasise the long-term importance of adequate housing in large urban areas, where housing needs are greatest. But is that what we really want? Homework takes a big flight, shopping from your chair as well. The autonomous car is coming. These are irreversible developments which will radically change residential requirements in the foreseeable future. Can the Minister provide insight into these new housing needs and the effects on housing? Now you are happy to have an affordable apartment after years, even though you prefer to live somewhere else, within cycling distance of your work or in a leisure home. Is the Minister prepared to make the qualitative living wishes a starting point? Mr. Chairman. The new forms of housing are the future, from highly innovative to traditional in a modern jacket. An example of this is inheritance. An empty farmhouse is converted into several housing units. In the Netherlands 1,000 farms a year disappear, space for thousands of households who want to live alternatively, with your own chickens, a vegetable garden and their own windmill. Bestow those shrinkage areas into ecological residential area. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Now let's move in for senior citizens. There's a huge task ahead. The number of older people is growing and they need to live on their own for longer. That's fine as long as they can do this and as long as there are homes adapted to what is needed for seniors. We thank the Minister for the promised note on living for senior citizens, which 50PLUS has been asking for for six years. Removing nursing homes by Rutte II was really a step too far. Fortunately, an alderman in Amsterdam is now coming to that insight; that is an alderman of the VVD. It's striking that everyone knows exactly what seniors want, but I'd say, shall we ask them? 50PLUS asks for a residential survey among the elderly, prior to the promised note. Please pay attention to concepts such as the Knarrenhof, for family homes where several generations live together, the neighborhood nursing home and much more. In advance, 50PLUS already wants the commitment that a proportional part of the building statement is intended for senior housing. Finally, I would like to say a few words about student housing. A student wants an affordable room, close to the lecture hall, a room that is available when the study begins. Why doesn't the university also offer a room per study place? Can there be a plan to set the student campus as the norm? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. There it is: the National Housing Agenda, which was announced by the Minister. This should provide the answer to the major housing shortage in this time. Students who can barely find a house and elderly people who can hardly find a suitable home. Yesterday, the documents at Accountability Day on affordability for tenants showed that they have four times as many problems in paying their rent as buyers. That really is a big social problem. This is the response of the cabinet to the great problems of our time. Build 75,000 houses, but it is not clear to me that I am asking the cabinet for whom. Are these student homes, are they going to be single-family homes, are they going to be housing in shrinking areas that are appropriate? And where? Signed by, is in the first sentence, the Vereniging Nederlandse Gemeenten. But this morning, as MPs, and I assume all colleagues too, we were told that the municipalities do not support this, while the minister always says that the municipalities should do it. If the main party that has to do it doesn't support it, what is the agenda really worth? Mr. Chairman. What does it mean for the people themselves when at the same time savings are made on tenants? The housing corporations get a billion dollars, the rent surcharge is being cut, while affordability is under great pressure. That's a really big problem for people. What does it mean if nothing is done about it? It should be. Why didn't the cabinet announce that, as things are going so well, yesterday we found that this is a wind-meek cabinet to use that space? There is money left over from the rent allowance, which is exactly as much as the cut that has been made. Why not leave it in this letter? Why leave that austerity hanging over the heads of tenants, when affordability is such a big problem? The second point is sustainability. I think: here comes the answer in the National Housing Agenda, now we're going to know how these houses are all being preserved, how these heat pumps are being built, and above all I'm also looking at the right-hand side of the house who's going to pay for it. Where does the bill end up? We have reports that it has to cost an average of €25,000 per household. Who's gonna cough that up? Does the government play a role in this? Or should tenants and buyers do all that themselves? How is that going to be realized? In the cabinet's living agenda nothing of a response to all of that. And those are the big questions of our time. Mr. Chairman. I come to my third and final point, a point I raised earlier. But I am very sorry, and that is why I would like to bring it up again, because I felt that the cabinet last time, when I asked for attention to discrimination in the housing market, did not do enough about it. Yesterday it became known that a housing corporation discriminated against everything you can think of: on origin, on behavior, up to smell and tattoos. It's a hell of a scandal. This is due to the social housing in the Netherlands. Previously, research carried out by the NOS and the Groene Amsterdammer has shown that there is structural discrimination by brokers. We need to take action against that. You have to! This week, the cabinet announced that it would do so in the temporary agency industry, to actively pursue it, to use mystery guests. D66 then raised a number of other issues and said: more needs to be done by the cabinet. Why does the government do so on the labour market but does it not do so on the housing market? It has to be, doesn't it? My motion, tabled together with Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Voortman, was rejected last time, but I really want the cabinet to act against it. It is a fundamental right not to be discriminated against, but it is done on a large scale. I ask the Minister to really review her opinion on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'll come back to affordability. Mr Nijboer mentioned several times that the rents, the charges, the energy bill for tenants, you name it all, go up. During the Rutte II cabinet, rents in the social rental sector increased by about 15%. To my knowledge, Mr Nijboer's party, the PvdA, was part of that. So he himself is partly guilty of these huge rent increases of the past few years. So how are we supposed to place his call for more affordability?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	The affordability of renting is a huge problem. That's what I'm bringing up here. It is, of course, the case that rents have increased in the past cabinet period. I recognize that; that's true. We have made sure that the rent supplement, which is the lowest income in particular, has also grown enormously. There has even been year by year squeezed in times of austerity. Moreover, I had enormous support from the Christian Union in the discussions on this issue. That means that it has been compensated as much as possible. And in recent years, the increase has also been moderate. That doesn't alter the fact that it's a big problem. Now that we have the financial wind back on track, there have been difficult measures taken, and I ask the cabinet not to cut back on the tenants but to spare them as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	Does Mr Nijboer recognise that we would not have to talk about rent reductions and such if he had not followed the VVD during the Rutte II cabinet and the rents had not been increased at all? It is striking how easy the PvdA is to exchange the role of coalition partner for that of opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr President, these are very different times. At that time, we were in a huge crisis; at that time, we had to cut back almost everything. It was no different. In those days, the PVV ran away from its responsibility and has achieved nothing for people in recent years. Painful measures have been taken. Now the budget is fantastic and we are making political choices that can be done. The choice of the PvdA would be, and has been chosen in recent years, to avoid the lowest incomes as much as possible. The cabinet does exactly the opposite. Tenants will advance half of what buyers will gain in the coming years. I think that's a wrong choice. The Cabinet cuts the rent allowance. I think that's a wrong choice. The cabinet does not invest extra and there will be no investment fund for additional housing. I think that's a wrong choice. I wouldn't make that choice right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are having this debate here today. We have, of course, had many general discussions on this subject and on all kinds of aspects that touch upon it, and there are other general consultations to be held, including on the State of Housing. And I think that everyone can now dream about the introduction of my colleague Koerhuis: building, building, building, and a good and affordable house is important for everyone. But without madness, Mr President, there are major problems in the area of living. People pay sky high rents and the prices of housing are rising rapidly. In many areas it is hardly possible for starters to get a home. Actually, there's a shortage of homes across the board. In the cities this is mainly about middle rent. It is very important that there is enough middle-rent, because otherwise the middle-income people will disappear from our cities: the nurses, the cops and the teachers. They don't make enough money to buy an expensive house and they make too much money to live in social housing. Due to the shortage of middle rentals, the prices of free rentals are rising. For small shacks you can ask for high rents as a cottage milker in the big city. Everyone knows poignant examples where €1,400 for 40 mg is an exception. The solution for this is more offer of middle rental. The Co-operation table for middle hire led by Mr Van Gijzel has examined what we can do to build more middle rent. This led to a number of concrete recommendations. We are pleased that the Minister has indicated that he will be working on many of these recommendations, such as the inner city building fund. Fortunately, we also see that new lectures in the country want to build a lot of middle rent. However, it takes a few years for us to balance supply more with demand with new construction. In the meantime, we need to do something to stop the ridiculously high rents and the rent increases. That is why I want the emergency stop proposed by Van Gijzel to be further developed. This means that municipalities are temporarily given the opportunity to stop too high rents. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Social rents could also rise too quickly. That is why we are pleased that the housing agenda that the Minister sent us yesterday included the intention to conclude another lease agreement. This will make it easier for tenants to continue to pay their rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	You are talking about Van Gijzel's emergency button, which, fortunately, the Minister in the form of Van Gijzel said in the first instance, is not such a good idea. I agree with you that it takes time to build middle-rent. This is not the only way to achieve middle rent, especially in a left-wing city like Amsterdam, where there is 60% social rent. There you can also realize middle rent by selling social rentals. Do you agree with me that this is also a way of realising middle-rent and that this also takes time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	It is a very right point that Mr Koerhuis is making. If you want to sell properties in which there are people who would be suitable for middle rent, for example, you will have to wait until those people are out. I think it will take time, but it is certainly also a direction in which thought can be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	Is it then an idea to ask for a detailed proposal to consider that it takes time to build middle-rent and that it also takes time to build and sell social rentals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yes, I agree. It all takes time. That is why we indicate that we want to talk about what we can do now to tackle the extreme rent increase or the extreme rents demanded in high pressure areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	A third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	The condition for a detailed proposal is that the construction of middle-rent to realize middle-rent will continue, in addition to of course the sale and reconstruction of social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	If you look at the huge demand for middle rental we have to use all kinds of different ways, especially when it comes to new construction. For example, where it can be achieved, mixed neighbourhoods need to be realized by bringing social housing to the middle rental segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	I think you can also realize mixed neighbourhoods by building social housing in neighbourhoods where there are already much more expensive homes, but that aside. Mrs Van Eijs talked about a temporary solution to deal with the rent increases. Why is it not looking for it in permanent solutions or at least longer-term solutions? I don't think we're gonna be a couple of years away from those rent increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	D66 believes that free rent is free rent. So it's not an extra expensive segment of social rent, it's something of the free market. You can put golden cranes in it or think of other creative solutions, but it is not the housing as we know it from social housing. That is why, for the longer term too, I would simply like to have a free rental segment, in which those middle-rental homes simply have a normal price, but are not regulated like the social rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u22	So Mrs Van Eijs wants, for the time being, that there really is a shortage and prices to be fixed. So we are really talking about the medium term, not the short term. I think we're talking about 10 years, maybe 20. Are those the deadlines Mrs Van Eijs is thinking of? If that is not the case, what deadlines is she thinking of?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u23	That should be considered in part, but I am thinking of five or ten years. You can see that already there is the possibility to record middle rental in the zoning plan. That is also being done for a period of ten years. This seems to me to be a time-limit that we should initially think about in order to maintain a more consistent approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u25	I would have stayed with the social tenants. I'd like a lease. I'm glad there's that intention. The most important thing is that many more new homes will be built in the coming years. As far as I am concerned, the Housing Agenda is a good starting point. It is good that all the parties involved are united and radiating: we are going to tackle this problem. Although the UNG has said that it cannot sign the agreement, it has indicated that this is partly due to the fact that the colleges have not yet been formed. So I'm confident that they're going to hook up in the end. With this plan, we're going to build 75,000 homes a year. As far as we are concerned, that is a fine ambition. We also welcome the fact that the Minister is going to take more direction. Over the past few months, the Chamber has been trying to help. Within the sales market, we would like to draw attention to two specific problems. Firstly, it is difficult for starters to save enough to buy a property. We have, in my view, rightly lowered the loan-to-value. We do this to protect people and increase the stability of the housing market. But this puts pressure on the use of the National Mortgage Guarantee. Buyers have to pay a 1% premium for this. We have therefore previously asked for a study to continue to finance that 1% specifically for the NHG. Can the Minister indicate whether this has been adequately investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u26	You can finish your story. Or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u27	Finally, I'd like to catch up on the vacation rentals. The Minister writes that there will be an action agenda around obsolete holiday parks. I would like to draw attention to a more in-depth analysis of holiday parks. On the one hand you have holiday parks where you live permanently, which are absolutely not suitable for that. On the other hand, you have holiday parks where you can't live permanently, with homes that are not inferior to regular homes. Especially in these times of tightness, I'm surprised. Can the Minister investigate whether the current regulations on holiday homes are still in place, specifically for these two extremes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mrs Van Eijs said: the municipalities have not yet signed the Housing Agenda, but that will be fine; they will probably do so when all the lectures have been formed. But that is not at all the only criticism the municipalities have made. The Housing Agenda is a big piece for this cabinet, which wants to leave everything to the municipality. So it is a huge problem that municipalities that are now refusing to sign. For example, they write this morning that housing corporations can build too little because this cabinet imposes too much tax on them, for example the extra tax which is not intended at all for housing corporations, but for multinationals. Are you willing to listen to the criticism of municipalities and ensure that housing corporations can build by stopping this additional tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u29	D66 has also heard this call many times, including from the housing corporations themselves. It is certainly not aimed at deaf ears, but the Minister has also indicated that she is going to look very closely at whether the investment space is there to green the houses, build new homes and keep the houses affordable. We will certainly keep the Minister in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u30	This is a shame, isn't it? You made such a nice twist, which I am very pleased with, by saying that we in this Parliament should finally do something about the rents in the free sector, which are really going to get out of control. But why don't you want to make that turn for social tenants? They really get saddled with extra taxes. You can do something about that now. It is already calculated that a city the size of Amersfoort can be built less if you continue with this load. Why not now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u31	I think we've been asking for attention on several occasions for those high rents. We have also indicated what, according to D66, is the fundamental structural solution for this. I think we have always argued that. In addition, we need to look closely at this pressure on housing corporations. That's what the Minister said. We'll take a look at that. But I am not prepared to say in advance that we are simply going to abolish something without any real proof and it is clear that there is no more investment space at all. That also differs by housing corporation. So I wouldn't want to make it that simplistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u32	I fully agree with Mrs Beckerman, but I would like to make another point. Discrimination is widespread in the Netherlands, in internships, if you want to find a job, but also in the housing market. Now, this week's cabinet for the broadcasting market, for the labour market, has really announced a whole programme to do something about it. It was said, "We're going to do it. We're acting actively as government. We're all betting on business. We're gonna fine it." Does D66 agree with me that this should also be done on the housing market, especially after this week's news that a social housing corporation has really discriminated strongly in the Netherlands and that this should be dealt with by this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u33	The example just quoted by Mr Nijboer is so extreme that you almost think that it is not possible, especially in the Netherlands. I am very pleased that this is being dealt with now, that the prosecution is looking into it. I believe that we all need to look carefully at how we can reduce or prevent discrimination in the housing market as much as possible. But I would also like to hear from the Minister what steps she has already taken. She has indicated that she is in conversation with the real estate agents, who were an important factor in that. Perhaps, in parallel with the steps being taken in the broadcasting sector, there is also more possibility on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u34	Last time it was the real estate agents. 46 out of 50 real estate agencies investigated discriminated. So it happens on a large scale. Now it was a social housing corporation. I believe that, if it occurs on such a large scale, the cabinet itself should intervene and not leave it to industry and associations. It has to be actively behind it itself. It must punish, prosecute and eradicate itself, because it is the axe at the root of equality in society under Article 1 of the Constitution. Does D66 share that with the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u35	Yes, discrimination is a very serious matter. One of our biggest challenges is to reduce it. So I would like to join you in thinking about how we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "I'm the first VVD man to make an entire ministry disappear." That is what Minister Blok said proudly about his interventions in the housing market. Is this minister of residence proud of it, too? The key question today is whose problem is the shortage of affordable housing for everyone? Do we choose the Block option, which lays down the debt mainly with municipalities and provinces and abolishes an entire ministry, or do we choose to do much more as a state government in the coming years? This is also a national problem. Does the Minister recognize that? There's a housing shortage. More and more groups are trapped: 20s, 30s, older people, people with low or average incomes and also people with a migration background. The Minister spoke earlier of not wanting to tackle discrimination in the housing market itself. Does she still support that with the new discrimination case? Or does she want to take care of it now? Mr. Chairman. The minister says over and over that she wants to build, but she makes building through corporations much more difficult. They have to pay additional tax: in addition to the 2 billion landlord levy and the corporate tax of around 400 million today, 300 million a year because of ATAD, a European directive that must stop tax avoidance by international companies. This ATAD is intended for multinationals that avoid tax, but the Minister wants the tenants to pay for it. That's absurd, isn't it? This measure will make it possible to build 67,000 fewer new rental homes. That's what I just said. A city like Amersfoort less. Is the Minister prepared to exempt housing corporations from this directive? To build corporations also need affordable land, but many municipalities require too high prices for building land. Is the Minister prepared to point this out to the municipalities and encourage them to sell their land at affordable prices? Living is a fundamental right. Living is a human right. That must not be milked out by property managers, house milkers or municipalities with euro marks in their eyes. Tenants pay the bill again and again in this cabinet, via extra taxes and by cutting the rent surcharge. This could be sold by the cabinet by adding beautiful purchasing power figures: everyone would improve on it. But what turned out to be last week? In the economic jubilee year 2017, people went backwards on it. Lots of tenants have trouble paying their rent. In view of these new figures, is the Minister not prepared to cut the rent payment? Mr. Chairman. People with an average income are often no longer eligible for housing from a housing corporation because of political choices made by previous Cabinets. They had to enter the market and buy or rent in the free sector. The market would regulate it, but the consequences are disastrous. Many people can't buy now and the rents in the free sector have never been as high in many places as they are now. These are very large groups in our society: agents, teachers, nurses; people we really need, including in the cities. We have asked the Minister many times whether she wants to intervene and make sure that these rents are limited. So far, the Minister has refused. In the meantime, we have seen that D66 and this morning in the media also want to make the CDA a turn and do want to intervene. I think that is good news, because new figures show that rents are rising even further, not only in the Randstad, but also in medium-sized cities: Apeldoorn 20.2%, Amersfoort 15.4%, Almere 18.8%. Will the Minister finally press the emergency button and ensure that these homes are affordable? That brings me back to the end of time and rounds me up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u38	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing access to the housing market. This debate concerns the two main problems in the housing market, namely availability and affordability. Of course, both subjects are closely linked. Without sufficient housing, the housing that is available is becoming less and less affordable. Especially in the free sector, landlords can ask what they want and the property seeker hardly has a position to make another choice. If we look at the availability of homes, we see large deficits in the Randstad and the big cities in all parts of the housing market. In other debates, we have already discussed with this Minister on a number of occasions the question of increasing housing stock. Recently we talked about the problems in the middle hire. In this debate, I would like to focus on the shortage of social housing. The waiting lists for social rentals continue to grow. Anyone looking for a social rental house in Amsterdam, Utrecht or Haarlem can just have to wait ten to fifteen years. In addition, we see that social housing is mainly sold in the cities. That's weird, of course. Why are social housing being sold when there's a shortage? A striking example of this was recently seen in the Utrecht district of Kanaleneiland, where social housing was sold to investors and then the free rents rose enormously, while the landlord hardly did anything about maintenance. This minister says she is there for everyone on the housing market, but how does she intend to solve that shortage of social housing? The Minister often points to the responsibility of municipalities. This is also partly justified, but municipalities often also encounter the problem of insufficient instruments to prevent sales to investors and large rent increases. How is the Minister going to help municipalities to have sufficient instruments in their hands to counter this kind of undesirable practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u40	In the CDA Manifesto, we have proposed that municipalities should stress that, in the performance agreements with corporations when selling houses, they could agree that chain clauses should be laid down in the sales contracts, so that these huge rent increases do not take place at the time when housing ends up in the middle segment. That's a possibility, isn't it? Churches have the ability to do that, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u41	That is indeed a possibility. Then you're right to throw it over the edge of performance agreements. But I think there are also other possibilities, such as legal possibilities. When, for example, you extend the WWS system to a part of the free sector, that would also help to reduce rent increases. I see Mr Koerhuis shaking his head violently. That strengthens me in the idea that this would be a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u42	I hope that Mrs Voortman can explain to me the point of making additional regulations if there are tools to achieve the objective you have. What is the added value of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u43	The added value of this is that the resources available are not sufficient. That is why municipalities are asking us to use more resources. Our reasoning is: add resources to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u45	How is the Minister going to help municipalities to have sufficient instruments in their hands to counter this kind of undesirable practice? Together with the Labour Party and the SP, GroenLinks has submitted an initiative proposal to prevent the decline in the number of social housing units in the cities. In my group's view, this bill gives a clear direction for what we should be as a government: no reduction in the number of social housing units while there are still waiting lists. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is her starting point. If not, then what? Mr President, then affordability. We see, in general terms, that housing is becoming increasingly expensive and that wage developments are lagging behind in many places. On balance, this means that people have lost a greater share of their income to their homes. Can the Minister explain how the rent ratio has developed in recent years? How does this minister intend to keep rentals affordable? When we look at the proposals made by this cabinet about the rent allowance, we see that the people with the lowest incomes are being cut. We will, of course, be discussing this proposal in detail in the short term, but this proposal cannot be left out of discussion in this debate. Can the Minister explain why, in particular, the people with the lowest incomes should suffer from cuts in the rent payment? What is the specific purpose of this proposal? The Minister writes in her letter that, on balance, the overall purchasing power picture shows a plus, but the Minister will also know that people with welfare benefits, for example, do not benefit very much from lower income tax. In December, this Minister said on the radio that her colleague from Social Affairs should be able to compensate for any negative consequences of this measure. But what agreements has the Minister made with her colleague in Social Affairs to ensure that negative consequences are compensated? Mr. Chairman. Finally, another important point is the development of rental prices in the coming years. Can the Minister take us with her in her view on rent development? How is she going to ensure that rentals are still affordable in a few years' time? How will it prevent low-income people from finding affordable housing only in certain neighbourhoods? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. There's a call in the hallway, and I can hear the whole conversation here; but good. I call Mr Koerhuis on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr. Chairman. A good and affordable house is important for everyone. It offers certainty. Whether you buy or rent, your own home is the place you come home after a day of hard work. We talk about the housing market more often. We've been hitting good picket posts as a room for the past six months. I'd like to use today's housing debate to see what's going on with those poles. Now that the economy is attracting, the demand for houses has increased considerably and we have to build a lot. We talked about it last Tuesday during the AO Building Statement. Following the Ronnes/Koerhuis motion, the Minister now publishes a report on the construction plan every six months. The first report is a good step. There are now 700,000 houses planned softly. For the VVD it is important to solve the shortage of houses completely. That is why 1 million houses need to be planned hard and 1.3 million houses need to be planned softly. Yesterday, the Housing Agenda was presented. There are good ambitions in this, but the ambition for housing is on the weak side as far as the VVD is concerned. The Housing Agenda talks about increasing housing from 66.000 last year to 75,000 at the end of the cabinet period. To build those 1 million houses, it seems to be on the skinny side. I'd like a response from the Minister. The coalition agreement also states that government policies on housing must be removed as far as possible. There is also a CDA/VVD motion from my colleagues Ronnes and Laan to do so. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? Has the Minister identified any further obstacles that could be removed? Another point that will help many people is a balanced housing market. The VVD remains committed to this too. Whether you buy or rent, if you are looking for a good and affordable house, you should be able to find it. But there is no question of a balanced rental market. The percentage of social rent is about 30% too high. The percentage of middle rent is about 10% too low. Because the percentage of social rent is so high, a lot of subsidy is going on, according to Deloitte about 10 billion euros per year. That's about €4,000 to €5,000 per social rental house. That's a lot of money. It also says in the government agreement that we are going to sell social housing. What about the Minister's liberalisation agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr Koerhuis spoke proudly about the housing agenda. We know him as a man who wants to build, build, build. That's what we want. But don't you think it's a little embarrassing, that's mildly put, so actually: very painfully, that the municipalities, which are the main partners in building, building, are refusing to sign the housing agenda, precisely because they disagree with cabinet policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u49	I would like to hear the Minister's answer as to why municipalities have not signed. I would not like it to have come from party politics, for example, from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u50	I'm sorry, but I didn't hear an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u51	I said that I was waiting with you for the Minister's answer as to why the UNG did not sign and that I hope that there is no party policy of, for example, the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u52	I'm sorry, but that's sad. You're going a little bit of party politics now. I would very much like the SP to have a large voice in the VNG, but unfortunately that is not the case. There are also a lot of lectures of your color incredibly angry about it. You want to build, build, build. You see the municipalities as the most important partner. Those congregations don't like you. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u53	I definitely want to build, build, build. The Housing Agenda talks about 75,000 houses. I've asked the Minister if that can't be anything anymore. I would very much like to build 1 million houses in the coming years. That is, in the end, the construction task ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u54	I think today the VNG wrote a letter to us about why their signature is not under the housing agenda. This is due, among other things, to a change of guard, but they also indicate that a number of themes are very important to them, such as the financial position of corporations in relation to the taxes and building on the edges of the city. These are important themes for the municipalities. I assume that the VVD still believes that municipalities are a very important partner in realising the Housing Agenda. So does Mr Koerhuis also think that these points should be given a prominent place in the Housing Agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u55	The household statement is that the construction of 1 million houses has to be realized....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I agree with you that eventually the municipalities, or indeed the builders, must build, but we are responsible for this. The Minister always says it so beautifully: we are system responsible here. For the VVD, that means that those 1 million houses are going to end up there. I'm the first to admit that we as the Empire are not going to build. I sometimes hear something different on the left flank, but the municipalities have to build.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u56	Those municipalities indicate that, for example, the financial position of housing corporations is an important factor for building. At a time when this cabinet is taking action that restricts the financial position of housing corporations, this means that building homes becomes more difficult. Will the VVD finally get an eye on that theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u57	I have answered this many times, and I will stick with that, as you know: corporations have more than enough money. They've made 18 billion euros of profit. I do not think it is entirely appropriate to complain about an ATAD directive. We all have to pay taxes in this country. Ordinary businesses are also covered by the ATAD Directive. I think it would be inappropriate to exclude a sector that makes EUR 18 billion in profits. The bill will eventually have to be paid. I understand that you want to leave it with ordinary companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u58	Just in addition to that last one. I saw it in the motion last time: is 18 billion the operating profit of the housing corporations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u59	The operating profit of the housing corporations is 4 billion and the value increase is 14 billion. That 14 billion is certainly to a large extent to activate by selling social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u60	And there's the VVD! Because that was actually my question. Why do you want to catch the poorest in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u61	That's not getting the poorest. We have about 30% social rent in the Netherlands and only 10% middle rent. I didn't say we should sell all the social rents. If I may continue my speech in a moment, I will be talking about selling expensive social rent. What's the beauty of selling expensive social rent? Then we can often build twice there and, as the newspaper said yesterday, sometimes three times as much social rent for return. That's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u62	I listened very carefully, also to the interruption of Mr Koerhuis at the beginning, when he talked about whether some more social housing could not be sold. I also just heard him say that there is a EUR 10 billion public subsidy going to these social housing units. The reality is that there is EUR 14, 15 billion going to the higher incomes, the people with their own home. That's what we're subsidising. Those are people who use the mortgage interest deduction. This subsidy is €280 to €300 per house. Now it's amazing that the VVD says: that social housing that people have to wait ten to twelve years for, we're going to sell and then we're going to take those people because it costs 10 billion but we're going to leave those higher incomes with the 14 billion. I can't hear you about that last group at all, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u63	You have old numbers. The mortgage interest rate deduction has long been less than 13 to 14 billion. It's going down hard and now it's at 10 billion. The money that goes to social rents every year goes up and now stands at 10 billion. I'd like to have said that here. Then you're talking about low-income people. That's right, they should be able to find a house. That's exactly why I want to sell that expensive social rent, which is often to build back twice, sometimes three times as much. That's why I'm doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u64	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mass is slow, so building a home really takes time. What's bothering us right now is that people can't find housing in that social housing sector. These are people who have to stay with their parents and who cannot develop their living career. And then you come up with the measure: let's sell more because in a few years' time I can create new homes in the middle rental sector. But I do not hear about the mortgage interest deduction at all, because that is also something we can tackle with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u66	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u67	You may respond to it. You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u68	That will then be somewhat a repetition of moves. I gave Mr Azarkan an answer to his question on mortgage interest relief, in the sense that he has old figures because it is not 13 to 14 billion but is falling and currently stands at 10 billion, while social rent expenditure is rising and currently amounts to 10 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mr Koerhuis has already said so many things to which I would like to respond that it is almost impossible to do so in an interruption, so that I can only agree with the proper implementation of the SP, GroenLinks and DENK. I would like to highlight one more point, which is the taxation of housing corporations in relation to the ATAD Directive. Mr Koerhuis thinks he'll get rid of that with the killer: all companies pay taxes, so housing corporations should, too. However, this is a measure against international tax avoidance by letterbox companies in particular. Now this measure, because it works out fiscally, affects the only houses where people are really behind the mailbox, namely rental houses, which is not the intention. Then Mr Koerhuis cannot say: that is the intention of the cabinet policy, and that is how we have always wanted it. Surely it makes no sense to take such a measure into account for housing corporations that really house the people and where the people are really behind the mailbox?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u70	But that's not what I'm saying. I'm not saying that account is deposited with tenants. I say that corporations have made 18 billion euros of profit. So between tenants and corporations is still 18 billion euros of profit. In response to that, I say: a little strange to start with an ATAD directive that covers a lot of companies, corporations for 300 million compared to 18 billion profits. Kind of weird to bring that up then, to separate it out. I'm not talking about the tenants, no, I'm talking about the corporations, and between corporations and tenants, there's still that 18 billion profits. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u71	So in the end, you pay it yourself out of your wallet. With the VVD that is always the case when you increase a tax, for example the VAT. How can it be that in the VVD's idea more than 2 million people are in a housing corporation's rental house, if they have to pay extra, which is ultimately passed on to the tenants? How else is it possible that that applies to everything except for tenants? And that the tenants should therefore see the VVD as an ally in their struggle for affordable rentals? That's unbelievable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u72	No. Those corporations have made 18 billion profits. If tenants already pay for something, it's for that 18 billion profit. I've said that a lot. That's what they're taking care of. If we really want to talk about the big money, it is not the ATAD measure but the 18 billion profits that corporations have. You'll find me by your side to do something with that. I'll follow. Half of all social housing is actually middle-rental housing. If we were to sell or liberalise it, the percentage of social rent would fall to 10%, 20% and the percentage of middle rent would rise to 20%, 30%. By selling these expensive social housing houses, corporations can often rebuild twice, sometimes three times as many cheap social housing. There are also two VVD-motions to stimulate that. Firstly, we are going to introduce an incentive in the landlord levy for corporations, and secondly, we are going to remove the perverse incentives in the salaries for corporate directors. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of these two motions? Mr. Chairman. Finally, of course, the VVD continues to work for the market. As the economy attracts, the risks on the sales market are reduced and the NHG premium could be reduced and co-financed. There's a coalition motion on those two points. How are we doing on this? To give starters a push in the back, they will soon be able to repay their mortgage in 40 years instead of in 30 years. How's that going? To give seniors a push in the back, they will soon be able to close an NHG mortgage. Finally, there is a CDA/VVD motion about silver mortgage. Seniors have a lot of money in stones. It is still a customised product, but shouldn't it become a bulk product? Are there any legal hooks and eyes on that? It would help people to stay home longer, to make care adjustments to their homes and to use them as a supplementary pension. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr. Chairman. A debate on the availability and affordability of homes. To make a long story short: there are far too few houses available and what is available is often priceless. While billions are being given away to Africa, to Brussels, this cabinet is not even able to provide enough affordable housing in its own country. It's just where your priorities lie. First of all, about affordability. Take the rental prices, the social rental sector. Since Rutte II, rents have risen by about 17%. It's too bizarre for words. People just can't make it anymore. But you should not think that this Rutte III cabinet is therefore reducing rents. No, the rent increases just go on. And then the question is, does the Minister perhaps find some kind of satisfaction in squeezing people out like that? And if I may say so immediately, Mr President, I already know what the Minister is about to say: 'Yes, but the rents are rising to a certain ceiling and not further'. Yes, that is of course easy, because you, Minister, you set that ceiling of the annual maximum rent increase! And you're able to make sure the rents don't go up at all but down. The tenants are craving it, but you won't. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u75	When you say "you," everyone thinks you're talking to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u76	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I meant the Minister, of course. The energy bill is also going up and up. There are households that just can't afford it anymore and are literally going to be in the cold. Once again, the question is: does the Minister have any satisfaction in this? What does it actually do to the Minister when there are elderly people who, fearing the costs and the bill, are literally afraid to turn on the stove or the light? Because that is the reality in the Netherlands in 2018 and that is too scandalous for words. The PVV keeps saying it: rent down, energy bill down. I'm getting to the point of availability. There is a national shortage of homes of about 200,000. Yesterday we received the National Housing Agenda. Previous speakers have already mentioned this. It says that up to 2025, 75,000 houses are to be built. Of course, they are fine words and beautiful plans, but how does the Minister ensure that the municipalities finally cooperate and how does she ensure that the construction can handle it? There is a large shortage of construction staff and according to the Economic Institute for Construction it will take at least two years before there is enough capacity again. In the AO on middle hire, the Minister himself indicated that we do not have to expect any change in the first year. What will the Minister do in the meantime? What is it going to do for those people who cannot wait for years to build again? Mr President, population growth is also problematic. I quote Professor of Housing Market Mr Boelhouwer of TU Delft: "The population is growing more rapidly than previously assumed. We grow with 100,000 people a year, especially because there are many more migrants than previously thought." Corporations have indicated that they want to add much more in the coming years. Very well, but yes, if those homes are then given away to status holders, it doesn't make much sense. Building houses while the borders are wide open, that is carrying water to the sea. The PVV says: stop giving away homes to status holders. Finally, a question, Mr President. How is the Minister going to ensure that the addition of social housing really leads to shorter waiting lists and benefits Henk and Ingrid, who have been on that waiting list for years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u77	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every week there will be a target audience in the media: seniors, starters, middle-income people, students. And rightly so, the police officer and the teacher almost no longer come to an affordable home in the big cities. Everything can be traced back to a shortage of available housing for the various target groups. In recent months, the CDA, together with other parties, has provided many concrete building blocks to move and accelerate the housing market. I call us a living manifesto with proposals for speeding up processes through regulatory adjustment, a chain clause in the sale of social housing and the adaptation of the market test for corporations as soon as possible, so that they can also build middle-segment homes where necessary. I'll be back on that middle segment later. I'm getting to the planning capacity. At the request of the CDA, the Minister made an investigation into the state of the hard planning capacity of municipalities and regions to build in the short term. Especially in Noord-Holland, Utrecht and parts of the province of Noord-Brabant there appear to be acute shortages when it comes to hard planning capacity. During the AO Bouwschappij, the CDA has advocated asking the provinces to release and overprogramme the brake on the realisation of hard planning capacity over the next three years. In the years after that, after the market has been somewhat normalized, the reins can be attracted again. This may require an urgent repair of the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation in order to prevent overprogramming from going down in court. It is clear, however, that municipalities have to work hard and that provinces have to help and not block. I didn't think the Minister was very clear about that during the AA. Hence the question again: does the Minister want to pick this up and, if necessary, adapt legislation, and discuss it with the provinces? Then it's the middle rent. Now it is true that ordinary families and hardworking Dutch people are being chased out of the cities. They no longer come to a house, simply because there are no available houses. That situation really needs to change. A fully regulated rental in the middle segment is too far for the CDA, but an emergency button seems really necessary at the moment. In addition, Mr Van Gijzel proposed a second button in his report, namely the setting up of agreements on the temporary deployment of social corporation stock for middle-rent. The housing supply of corporations can be particularly conducive to changing local housing needs. Depending on the demand for a house, one can then be rented out socially and then a middle rental house. This could be regulated in the performance agreements, provided that national regulations allow it. Through a motion together with D66 we want to visualize the possibilities for an emergency button. This motion has also been announced by Mrs Van Eijs. We're looking forward to the Minister's response. Then I come to the issue of personnel and equipment. Mr President, I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u79	Yes, I see Mr Koerhuis, too. Your last interruption, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u80	I have just spoken to Mr Van Eijs about this. Fortunately, the Minister does not really see the emergency button as proposed by Mr Van Gijzel. I hear about it now, just like Mr Van Eijs. Once it's important to realize middle rental. Do you agree with the VVD that this can be done by building, but also by selling social rent, and of course also to build back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u81	We can do all that, but now it's also about making speed. An emergency button is intended to address the acute problems in a temporary situation. We must ensure that these long-term developments are not overlooked. But we shouldn't have that if a teacher wants to live in Amsterdam, he now has to live 30 kilometers outside the city. He just needs to be able to find a place in town.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u82	Please continue. That's it, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u83	A concern remains the availability of personnel in the construction industry and the affordability and availability of building materials. In any case, there will be an attack plan, as the Minister has promised on our previous request in the AA. But our ambitions in terms of sustainability also have an impact on the housing market. Installation companies will have to retrain staff. New techniques will also have to prove themselves. From the field I hear mixed sounds about this. The question for the Minister is whether she wants to carry out an impact analysis to see how the impact of the ambitions for sustainability relates to the necessary catching-up on the housing market. Are they strengthening each other or is there an extra field of tension? If that is the case, what are we going to do to prevent the necessary additional construction production from falling back or slowing down because we are putting these sustainability ambitions there in the wrong way? Will the Minister respond to that? The State of Housing shows that the corporations have further moderated their rent increases and adjusted the rental levels to have sufficient housing available to households entitled to rent surcharge. One aspect that needs more attention is the skewing. The CDA argues for a system whereby the rent is reviewed annually by sitting tenants on the basis of a family income, both up and down. How does the Minister view this direction of thought? Is it prepared to examine the possibilities and, if necessary, to come forward with proposals on this issue? Then I have a number of questions about motions that have been tabled before. What is the state of play? What about the implementation of the Van Eijs/Ronnes motion on real possibilities in the position of the starter in the housing market? Regarding the qualitative demand for homes: earlier a motion has been tabled to include the Weather Home Action Programme! draw up a joint plan to accelerate the shortage of suitable rental homes for confused persons or people with a care demand. What is the status of this group? Mr President, last but not least, the housing agenda. I've heard a number of discussions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u84	Short and rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u85	In particular, it has been discussed that the VNG, as a very important link in the implementation of the Housing Agenda, has not signed. I'd like to ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Ronnes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u87	... or she wants to indicate exactly what the underlying idea is why the VNG has not signed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you. You could have asked that without an introduction, but okay. I now turn to Mr Bishop speaking on behalf of the SGP. Sorry, Mr. Azarkan wants an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was curious about the CDA's position on the sale of social housing. The colleague coalition party, through Mr Koerhuis, pleads for sales: it costs too much. What is the position of the CDA on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u90	It's very simple. That is the point that has just been mentioned in the coalition agreement. I have already mentioned here that the sale of social housing does not aim to reduce the available housing stock. The goal is to get homes that fit the demand that there is. This can be done if a corporation sells a property and with the proceeds does something to the benefit of the need in the local situation. It can be different for any city. For example, if a corporation sells a property and builds back two new social rental homes that fit, well, isn't that great? Then the result is that we both feed the middle segment and balance the social sector with demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u91	Thank you. Well, Mr. Azarkan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u92	Important. Really rounding up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u93	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u94	I have tabled a motion on exactly what the CDA colleague says. That motion says that when selling a social housing unit one has to be rebuilt. That's what keeps that stock up. You didn't support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u95	No, of course not, because that's not smart. There are municipalities in which there is a surplus of social housing, and there is little point in building social housing and then leaving it empty. You have to think about what the effect is locally. The Netherlands is not a single housing market, the Netherlands has a lot of housing markets. We need to make regulations that are focused, like a toolbox, to enable local authorities to do what is necessary for the inhabitants of these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u96	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. It's a bit strange, I'll admit that, but in the preparation of this debate, I remembered an image I saw recently: a cyclist who was firmly kicked and followed by a dog. He went after it; tongue out of the mouth, running fast. Maybe you'll think first of all, "Oh, boy, animal abuse." But no, I say in the direction of the PVV colleague, with Mr Graus in mind, this was not an animal cruelty but the free choice of that dog. He followed his owner, full of enthusiasm. I thought, "How come I have this association?" Am I thinking about the government that's going after the market like that? But no, that picture is not correct, because the government is certainly trying to pursue its own policy independently of the market. I would also like to encourage the Minister to continue to do so in particular. It can happen that if there is a housing shortage, there will be built instantly where demand is greatest. However, the question that the government has to ask is: do we encourage the areas where it really is needed at the right point and at the right time? Actually, as a government, you need to broaden a little. It is not just about housing, but also about accessibility and accessibility. This means, for example, very simply, that you can expand Amsterdam further, but that you run the risk that Amsterdam's ring will be filled with cars even faster and even less accessible. That is why the government architect rightly points out that the arrows should not be directed unilaterally and specifically at those kind of municipalities and cities. The Netherlands is, and this is a bit used to some people, bigger than Amsterdam. In addition, there are cities such as Eindhoven, Dordrecht, Zwolle, Nijmegen and you name it, which should also receive the attention. We would like to encourage the cabinet to look even more actively at opportunities in the region. In this context, we call for attention to be paid to regional plans. In the province of Gelderland, for example, I would like to mention that with honour... a housing agenda has been set up, which directs the province and supports it in the municipalities where it is to be built. My question is this. If we look at the cooperation of the various levels of government, with this as a good example, what opportunities does the Minister see for promoting them? Then we'll talk about some instruments. The Crisis and Recovery Act gives us the opportunity to speed up construction projects. This was mainly about infra-projects. But can this instrument be used more often for housing projects? The introduction of the Environment Act is still awaiting us. If you want to deliver the new property in time, you should not have to deal with new bumps. Construction projects are now at risk of slowing down due to the rapid abolition of the gas connection obligation. The abolition of the obligation to connect is a good thing, but we have the impression that there has not been sufficient thought up to now about a good introduction period. In any case, it is not the intention to overwhelm companies and it must certainly be avoided. How's the cabinet gonna fit a sleeve on this? Is there going to be a proper transitional period, so that existing plans do not have to be broken open? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on affordability. For many starters it has not become easier as of 1 January. The loan standards for a mortgage have been further tightened. At the same time, we are dealing with the first generation of students covered by the loan system. It is not beneficial that such tightenings occur at the same time. How does the cabinet monitor how this all works and what responses are needed? Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave the questions on the Housing Agenda to my colleagues. I'd like to join in on that. I look forward to the reassuring story that the government isn't chasing after its owner like a dog, because the housing market shouldn't be the owner. It's got to be a match. I see the chairman getting impatient and she's right. I quit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you. Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr Bishop called for attention to be paid to the obligation of gas connection which is due to expire. De facto, new buildings are no longer intended to be connected to gas. Is Mr Bishop aware of the exception that municipalities can give if it is really problematic?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u100	We are certainly familiar with that. When the decision was taken, it was explicitly discussed. The question is, how strictly do you interpret that? If there is room for manoeuvre, and I think that this area must be accompanied by a sober transitional period, then such a decision to abolish the connection obligation can work very well. We have to go there, but it is something else to implement a strict connection ban. That is a step too far at the moment. You have to find a balance in this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u101	I understand that Mr Bishop is highlighting the fact that it might be a little more difficult for you to build. On the other hand, Mr Bishop might agree with me that it is also one thing to make the residents of these new homes pay for a gas boiler and an old-fashioned connection. They will have to do so for another 50 years, because that is how long a gas network will last, while the Netherlands will move much faster on other non-fossil energy sources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u102	It is certainly the aim to do so much more quickly. We wholeheartedly support that. However, we must realise that there are all kinds of plans on the table, which have not yet been taken into account. That is why I am asking for this to be included and, as a government, to ensure that this ban, with exceptions, does not frustrate the implementation of these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u103	I was actually asking about the fact that whoever has to live there, the resident, is paying another 50 years for such a gas connection that has to last another 50 years. I understand that it is difficult for construction companies, but it is also very difficult for residents if they are now left with an obsolete gas connection and boiler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u104	The ambition is to realize the gaslessness within much shorter time. I still have to see that this is going to work, but the ambition must remain as far as I am concerned. This means, indeed, that there is a financial transition period for this too. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u105	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable to be able to act after the debate king, Mr Bishop. Mr. Chairman. The minister is working hard on the housing market. With me, the statue of some sort of moving massage parlor appears. She's rubbing the VNG a little bit. She's rubbing the developers a little bit. The housing corporations are being massaged. The contractors get a bit massaged. And in one hand...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u107	The MPs, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u108	Members of parliament? Yeah, but they can only talk. They can't build themselves, at least most of them. In one hand, she has a game of regulation. She can work with that. And in the other hand, she's got a pot of money. Sometimes she rubs a little hard. Then she pushes a little hard in this case one of those parties. They get a little pissed off, like the VNG. He'll be cutting off for a while. But pay attention to those commercial clubs, because they sometimes act like they have a lot of pain in their backs, because they watch that pot of money in particular. Mr. Chairman. The big question is, where does all this massaging lead? Is that going to lead to a happy ending for the tenants and buyers? There are a number of persistent injustices in the housing market that DENK would like to point out. I would like a response from the Minister to those four persistent points. The first are the long waiting periods for social housing. In the major cities it rises to eight, nine years and in the smaller cities to a number of years. What can the Minister do to make the housing corporations build more? Can the landlord levy be used as an instrument? What does the Minister do with the criticism of the housing corporations, which have to pay extra for unintended side effects of the tax avoidance directive, the ATAD? We just talked about it, too. Injustice two are the rents in the free sector. People with a family income above the costume are forced to rent in the free sector, but that's where the rents rise. It was just proposed; it was a one-two between D66 and the CDA. We read it in the paper this morning. Sometimes the newspaper gets the information rather than the roommates. The proposal is therefore to consider whether to introduce the point system in that segment, although temporary, but it could be. Something that forces parties not to overpay in the great scarcity of people unnecessarily. Unfairness three is about the difficult position of start-ups in the housing market. We haven't built enough buildings for years, and there's a huge housing shortage. That drives prices to a high level. How are people ever gonna get into that housing market? We see that young people often skip the first step, because affordable homes up to 100 m are bought by others. What can the Minister do for these newcomers to the housing market? The final point is discrimination in the housing market; Mr Nijboer has already spoken about it. In this debate, we are talking about the possibilities of creating affordable housing for our citizens. We look at the rules, at incentives and at cooperation with partners. But the practice is that some Dutch people do not have access to these homes, because they have the wrong name, because they have the wrong origin, because they have the wrong faith and yes, that's how we read yesterday, because they have the wrong body smell. You don't believe it. The hard reality is that 90% of the real estate agents cooperated in discrimination, in breaking the law. We even saw a housing corporation yesterday that for years could discriminate freely and undisturbedly with the allocation of housing. Mr. Chairman. Realize how much that hurts as a part of who you are, when your identity is abused to rule you out. What is the Minister going to do to really tackle discrimination in that housing market? We must never, ever accept discrimination and exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I didn't know you knew so much about massages! I'm looking at the minister if she needs a short suspension. Ten minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting until 12:05.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u110	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, also for holding this debate. We have had AO's at various times, there were 30 member debates planned, we have had the angle of middle hire, we have had the angle of construction, but now we have the opportunity to discuss the whole problem of the housing market in a single, integrated debate. I'm okay with that. It is an extremely important subject: housing, a suitable home for everyone. It is a basic need of every Dutchman. It determines an important part of your life; that's what I heard many spokesmen say. The house you go to, where you spend a lot of time and where you are with your family and friends, also determines your identity. So it's an extremely important part of everyone's life. Different angles are now coming together, because it's pinching on the housing market. The affordability plays across the board and is not just about the social side. Affordability is also about middle rent, affordability is also about buying. So it's about the.I think it's a bit of a nasty term.Underside of the housing market, the vulnerable households that we obviously have to help because they're having trouble getting around. For example, it could be about single-parent families, it could be about people on welfare benefits. So we need to pay attention to those vulnerable households, who have permanent difficulties in making ends meet. But we also need to look at a segment that is currently very scarce in the Netherlands, namely the middle segment. Throughout the chain of living in the Netherlands, this is the link that is currently the least developed, while this is precisely the segment where, for example, the nurse, some newly-starting entrepreneurs and certain groups we need in the Netherlands should have a choice. That's where it's pinching. At the same time, the Netherlands is extremely diverse in terms of regions. I thought that was very good; I heard Mr Bishop and others say that. There are also shrinking regions; that was also said by Mr Krol. So while we see that there is enormous pressure in some regions, other regions face a very different problem, namely emptying, with a shrinking population and housing emptiness. So there is another dynamic, but we have to keep an eye on that. It has the attention of the cabinet. I have already exchanged with the Chamber that for this reason I have chosen to conduct regional talks so that we can apply customisation precisely to the circumstances that arise in certain regions. Yesterday I met with all the parties that have to play a part in this, and there are quite a few in the Netherlands. Together, we have said that we have an agenda and underline the ambition of 75,000 homes a year. In fact, almost all the partners who are needed have pledged their full cooperation. I will come back to the question about the precise signature, but in my introduction I would like to stress that we need everyone, from investors to builders, from housing corporations to tenant representatives, all co-governments; everyone is needed here. What I find very positive is that everyone also cooperates, that now there is the good movement, the good energy in it. Now it is important to turn this into more new homes and more housing. There are three great things to be done. The first is speeding up the plans that are there. If there are obstacles that make it slow, we need to remove them. The second is keeping it affordable; I was just talking about the whole segment, so also about the middle rent. The third is to make better use of existing stocks. It will therefore have to be done on all three pillars if we are to see movement. Of course, it's not fast. It won't be resolved tomorrow. It will not be resolved next year either. We must now take these steps in order to say in the long term: yes, it has been resolved. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I thought it best to cluster it a bit and not pass the spokesmen. First of all, I'll answer some questions about the Housing Agenda. After that, I would like to talk about matters relating to the construction work. A lot has been said about middle rent, even though we have just had an AO about it. I also have a separate part for this, as for everything about corporations, including the important subject of discrimination in the housing market, raised by Mr Nijboer and others, and a number of other questions. Mr. Chairman. To begin with, the National Housing Agenda. Like I said, it takes a lot of players on the market. I am very glad that we were together yesterday to endorse and underline the National Housing Agenda. That unity is the strength of the Housing Agenda. I can take charge of that from the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It is also possible to look very specifically at what is going on in the regions at regional level. Each party will and will contribute to this. Some have said that the Housing Agenda has been endorsed by many parties, but not yet by the UNG. That's right. You can see exactly who signed the housing calendar I sent you. This includes the declaration of intent issued on behalf of the co-governments and which I have sent to you. I think it is very respectable that the VNG has said: we are very positive about formulating a housing agenda and we have been involved in everything, but at the moment in many municipalities in the Netherlands there are still lectures and coalition agreements being written. We had municipal elections not very long ago, so the ambitions surrounding living are actually being converted into plans that will start new aldermen and municipal authorities in the near future. The VNG says: we think it is so neat to wait for that. I agree. I said earlier that, of course, I hope that living will be as high on the agenda as in the election campaigns, that I will see that in the coalition agreements, and that the new municipal authorities will start working on this with new energy and new ambition. I think it's very respectable. I do welcome the declaration of intent and the explanation given by the UNG and the other domes themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u112	Thank you for answering the question of why municipalities did not sign. Of course, that's a little painful. You lay down the problem mainly with the municipalities and then you do not sign it. I'd like to continue with that. You say that this is only due to the change of guard, but that is not clear from the letter sent to us by the UNG this morning. It points to other problems, such as the financing of uneconomic inner city restructuring, the financial position of corporations in relation to the levies affecting corporations and the middle rent file. It shows a little more criticism than simply that there have been elections and we have to wait a little longer. Would you mind going into that? Do you still want to tighten up the housing agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u113	I do not think it is necessary to tighten up the housing agenda on that point. I believe that the issues mentioned by Mrs Beckerman have indeed been mentioned by the VNG and mentioned in the talks. We have the ambition, for example, to look around this inner city development at the question of whether there should be a fund to enable that kind of inner city transition where opportunities remain because of an initial investment that cannot be made. The same applies, of course, to the discussion about housing corporations, the landlord's tax and the ATAD. I shall come to that of course, because questions have been asked about it. Aedes simply endorsed the Housing Agenda, as you know. Nevertheless, they do, of course, raise these points. All those parties who sit there at the table and say: we must shoulder our responsibilities together, of course, also raise issues that we must resolve together. That's what the Housing Agenda is expressing. The fact that the UNG signature is not one of them, but that there is a declaration of intent on the housing agenda, in my view, shows precisely that there is an ambition to do so. This does not mean that all the problems have been solved at once, but at least that indicates that everyone is willing to resolve these problems together and to tackle those bottlenecks to make sure that we can get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u114	So you're basically saying, "I'm sorry, I just picked the wrong momentum." Because, of course, you knew that there were municipal elections and that new lectures were being formed. In fact, the wrong momentum has been chosen. What's the next timeline? The municipalities do formulate major points of interest. Could it be that this Living Calendar still gets an update, a Living Calendar 2.0? Can you outline a timetable for what you're going to do in the next few days in negotiations with these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u115	Maybe I can come back to what Mrs Beckerman said in her first speech, namely: you sort of put that down with those municipalities. Of course, that is not something we choose from here. It has already been said that the municipalities have an important task. I think that is also good when it comes to housing, because I am convinced that the municipality, the region and therefore the province, when it comes to planning capacity, can best see what is needed in their region. Courses have already been formed here and there, of course. You can also see that living is at the top of their agenda. I think the municipalities should have that space, too. The Housing Agenda is also an agenda. We didn't call him that for nothing. It is extensive; I think all the problems are described in it. So I think the Housing Agenda is a very good starting point for all of us, including the VNG. Again, I respect it, but I don't think it's necessary that none of the parties should wait until the final college negotiations are over. No, we just want to move on. You can do that on the basis of this Housing Agenda. I expect from the municipalities and from the new colleges, when they are formed, especially through these regional talks, we will shape more building together and better deal with the planning capacity and plans that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u116	I agree with the Minister that the Housing Agenda is very open and very open for all parties to express their views and ultimately to move towards solutions. However, I am surprised that these signals came in here this morning about what would be the reason why the UNG would not have "signed." I deeply regret that. The VNG is a particularly important party to developments in the housing market. Can the Minister not say whether the VNG has given signals in the talks that this attitude would be taken at the time when the report would go out? I think it is purely and simply a statement that the college negotiations have not yet been concluded, but a little too little of an indication of what is actually being said in the letter we received this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u117	I would like to say to Mr Ronnes: look also at the declaration of intent which has also been sent to the Chamber in its entirety. But I'm sure he did. The VNG itself explains this. It is not really a matter of substance. The VNG represents the municipalities in the Netherlands. Once again, I think it is very respectful that they say: first give the municipalities the opportunity to get to work; then give the new aldermen the opportunity to live under the desk. But they have been part of the development of the Housing Agenda. They also attended yesterday. So they are indeed an indispensable partner, but I would like to give them that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u118	But does this also mean that after this debate and after the Building Agenda has gone out, you are again talking to the VNG to make clear agreements on how they really are? And are you also prepared to inform us of the results?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u119	I am now informing you about how we sat at the table yesterday, including the VNG. I have also informed you about this. The UNG is fully involved in the elaboration, as demonstrated by the declaration of intent. That's what we're gonna do. I told you, it's actually happening on a number of levels. You have the level we were at yesterday, with representatives of domes and organizations. The developers and the housing corporations have also signed it. The other level, one step down, is the regional conversations. There you have to deal specifically with provinces, municipalities and the parties active in a particular region. That's all going on. I will, of course, keep the Chamber informed of developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u120	It's gonna be a bit of a embarrassing show anyway. The PvdA is in favour of the Minister doing more. But the Minister said debate on debate: no, it is the municipalities and the provinces that have to do it. Then we get the National Housing Agenda. While the Minister says in her first sentence that the municipalities are behind this and actually says in the debate today that there are no problems in substance, the municipalities say this morning to all members of the parliament, we have all been given the opportunity to say that they do not yet have any lectures and that they do not agree with the content either, because the cabinet is cutting down on housing corporations and making building impossible. There are still major problems of substance, while according to this minister, those parties who want to push it and do not want to intervene, as the PvdA wants to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u121	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u122	Doesn't the Minister think this is an embarrassing display?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u123	Well, not at all. Not at all. I think it is incredibly important that we have now managed to formulate this housing agenda together with all those parties and that we also say to each other that we can't really wait and want to start yesterday. Fortunately we started a long time ago, because it's just being built. Much more is being built than was previously foreseen, but there has to be even more. That is why I have sent your Chamber a letter stating that this marking marks my start with all these parties to address the short- and long-term challenges in the housing market with all of these parties................................................................................................................................................................................... No one has suggested that this Housing Agenda has solved all the bottlenecks in one go like snow for the sun. You can't do that at all. We must also be realistic, but we do want to get to work. This Housing Agenda offers a very good starting point for this. Those who have subscribed to this Agenda by means of their signature or by means of a declaration of intent all have concerns. It's okay, and I'm okay with that. For example, we will continue to talk more and more about housing corporations, even in the future. The same applies to construction, which requires attention, for example, to shortages, both on the labour market and on the equipment side. The Housing Agenda as such has not resolved such things, but the fact that the noses are now moving in the same direction and that we are expressing the same ambitions marks the start for me with the intensification of housing, the better use of existing construction and tackling bottlenecks and abuses in the current housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u124	That is perhaps the key problem: that this is seen as a start. I had hoped that, now that the housing shortage is so great, starters could not get a home and tenants would have to wait endlessly, now they are just going to build instead of being investigated and chased and sitting at the table with municipalities that do not yet agree with it. Soon we'll be talking to each other in two or three years and nothing happened. That's the disappointment I'm having here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u125	But I think that in the end we can all agree that more needs to be done than is already happening and that the best can be done together and not from a situation where you don't talk to each other. Talking is part of that, but ultimately it is about realizing the plans and making more homes available to all those Dutch people who need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u126	I would like to focus on the role of the municipalities. Not so long ago, on 10 April, we had a short debate here in Question Time between Mr Ronnes and Minister Ollongren. Then the minister said: "But in the end it comes down to the crucial role that municipalities themselves have." My question is how these municipalities are going to act at the representation of the UNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u127	I do not want to repeat it again, but the VNG is therefore fully involved. In the regional discussions it is the municipalities themselves who sit at the table. There you will also get the concrete translation to the plans, converted into real homes, as the municipalities can do. In the three pillars of the Housing Agenda, one of which is the building of houses, but also the flow of residences, the municipalities play a very important role. Again, in many municipalities we are on the eve of a new municipal council. Then we will also see whether their ambitions contribute to this. The UNG must, of course, wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u128	Do I hear the Minister say that we still have to see whether the municipalities and the VNG can still achieve their ambition and whether they can contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u129	In the Housing Agenda, the parties said together: we think we need 75,000 new housing units per year to grow into a healthy housing market. That will have to materialize locally. Then we can see what the housing corporations are doing. We are going to set aside the ambitions of the municipalities, including across the board, not only in the housing corporations but also in the middle rental segment and the purchasing segment. And then we'll have to see how that relates to the need that exists. Everyone will have to play their part on the basis of the Housing Agenda: the individual municipalities but also the domes at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u130	If I listen carefully to the Minister, can I draw the conclusion that she expects the VNG, on behalf of the municipalities, to continue to actively and with agreement to endorse the Housing Agenda, and that it is, in her view, a procedural matter? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u131	You've seen the pieces. We all chose to get together yesterday and say: this is the Housing Agenda, this is the starting point of our cooperation, of the intensification, with the quantification of the numbers involved. I also said that I respect that the VNG says: at the moment, we find it unfortunate with regard to the municipalities we represent, to endorse it in this way while they are still shaping their plans. That's why there's a declaration of intent from the VNG. In fact, I assume that at some point, when the municipal authorities have gotten on their feet, the VNG finds that it is going well and that it is actually in line with what is on the housing agenda, and that it can turn its letter of intent into an actual signature. But, again, it is to a large extent a symbolic act. It says above all that we want to work together. It says above all that we need all these parties to realise the ambitions in the housing and housing markets together. For me, this declaration of intent, especially the involvement of the UN General Assembly, is also crucial for the IPO and the Union of Water Councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u132	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have just said a few things about the numbers. Mr Koerhuis referred to those 1 million homes. We have now seen together: 75 000 a year. In the light of recent production, we are dealing with a catch-up that has to be achieved because of the crisis, I think 75,000 are ambitious, but I think that is feasible. If, in the long term, it is possible and necessary to achieve even more than that, I would welcome it in itself. But you have to try to pursue achievable goals. The 1 million that Mr Koerhuis refers to is, as far as I am concerned, a little too much of an estimate, which cannot yet be made very hard. We know that it's very difficult to calculate exactly the housing needs. I'll admit that immediately. I was just talking about shrinkage: of course, homes are also being demolished in the Netherlands. So you have to consider the pluses and the minuses. I therefore believe that with this objective, of course, we should always keep track of whether it is right and whether it is necessary to adjust it to meet the needs that exist. The 75,000 was also the subject of a question by Mr..., from the representative of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u135	Exactly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will continue with a number of other questions. By the way, I come across the VNG press release here. I would have liked to refer to that for those who had a question about the VNG, because it expressed that intention very clearly in a press release. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get on the construction assignment. Mr Krol spoke about the senior housing. He has also called for attention to be paid to this before. Indeed, sufficient senior housing is one of the priorities in housing, in housing. Of course, housing corporations and municipalities must also agree on this. That can be very different locally. There are shrinking regions, which Mr Krol himself referred to, and there are regions that are under enormous pressure. But it must be taken into account. The VWS Minister has already adopted the Older People's Pact. Several social parties have also contributed to this and have given their views on it. One of its effects is specifically focused on housing for the elderly. This will focus on increasing the understanding of municipalities in order to focus on the needs of older people and to adapt their building plans accordingly. This aspect will, of course, also be taken into account in the regional discussions I have just mentioned. In the National Environment vision, in which we will outline the long term, housing also has a place. It will also cover urban areas. Quality issues should also be included, i.e. housing for the elderly, but the same applies, for example, to middle rents for which others asked for attention. That is where the big challenges lie. It would be good if you could see that in there. What I thought was a beautiful metaphor was The Hague as New York by the sea. But Mr Krol meant above all that there are great differences in our relatively small country. That is true, of course, but to mention the example of The Hague... The Hague is also part of the urban alliance. It is one of the regions I have also visited the region to see for myself where we are talking very intensively about the construction plan. You can see that there are differences in this region, but there are also opportunities, and that there really is still the possibility to make room for this kind of new development. Mr Kops of the PVV called for attention to be paid to the construction sector itself, construction production and its shortages. I'm getting those signals, of course. Fortunately, the construction sector itself is also picking up on this. Building the Netherlands has come up with the "Building Makes It," which brings the sector as an interesting employee to the attention of young people who are still in training. They try to increase the attractiveness of the construction sector for young students. They pay attention to side-influx from other sectors, where perhaps fewer people are needed. I think it is very good to see that the construction sector itself is working on this. The signals that come in are sometimes also different in nature. For example, the Economic Institute for Construction says that the shortage of construction workers is not currently an obstacle to the acceleration of construction. On the other hand, the NVB, and by the way Building Netherlands itself, see a risk in that. So we have to pay a great deal of attention to this and I see that happening in the sector itself. The same applies to the deficit and catching up to be made. Here too, the crisis plays a role. It collapsed so much that a lot of people who worked in this sector had to look for other jobs and thus do other things. That must now be supplemented and resolved. I've already said a few things about shrinkage. Mr Ronnes asked about the implementation of his motion on housing barriers. This motion calls for an examination of the legal obstacles and how they could be removed. As a result, we have said that we need to amend the Crisis and Recovery Act so that municipalities can have more opportunities and more experimental space to speed up housing. Discussions with regional parties have also shown that laws and regulations can sometimes hamper their ambitions. I have, of course, worked very quickly on this and I hope to be able to send the proposal to the Chamber before the summer. Then I come to Mr Ronnes' question about the planning capacity. That is actually a follow-up question, because we have also discussed this in the AO. In the regional conversations, planning capacity is a subject of discussion. Of course, I am mainly trying to find out if they have enough space in their planning capacity, because we know from experience that not all planning capacity is actually converted into planning and housing. But laying down even more concrete rules on this planning capacity does not relate very well to the decentralisation agreed in the past. I support this decentralisation. I have already said that I think that the municipalities, the regions and the provinces themselves are best placed to oversee what is needed. I wouldn't want to deviate from that. They can best assess regional housing needs at regional level. I keep underlining the provision of sufficient planning capacity. This is a joint responsibility of the provinces and the municipalities. I believe that with the Housing Agenda in hand, we can lead the way, which should lead to the effective implementation of the role of local authorities. I hope I have made this clearer, because Mr Ronnes felt that I had not been clear enough in the AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u136	So far, only something came up. I also said that, in a number of cases, municipalities are stalled with the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation in hand as plans are tested. Then the judge just says there's 100% and it stops. I have asked whether the Minister is prepared, if necessary, to make adjustments to the legislative process for this or in the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u137	Mr Ronnes is, in a way, a step ahead of what I have just said. In principle, I would like to consider in consultation whether there are enough plans and whether it seems that these plans will be implemented. Mr Ronnes asks: what if I note that this is not the case? In fact, it is my objective that we do not go there. The local authorities themselves, in this case, have sufficient planning capacity to meet regional housing needs, in agreement with the Province of Oporto. It is very difficult to weigh on the hand what is sufficient. It must be something more than what you might need on paper, precisely because not all the plans of paper will materialize in reality. At the same time, it should not be too wide, because that also creates bottlenecks. So you have to weigh that up a little bit and especially in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u138	Mr Ronnes, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u139	That sounds nice, but if there is a plan of 50 apartments somewhere in a place where there were 25 homes or where in the old situation there were 25 apartments, then the judge says: those 25 additional apartments are not needed here, because we have 100% capacity. And then the plan doesn't go through, when those homes are badly needed. I shall return to this subject in the second stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u140	We'll wait and see. We were just talking about the Crisis and Recovery Act. Mr Bishop asked how it could be used even more effectively. I was actually saying that we are going to make adjustments to the Crisis and Recovery Act, also at the request of the Chamber. In the short term, I expect the most impact of improving the applicability of the project implementation decision, which actually makes it possible to make one integrated decision for projects and appeal in one body. This allows a contribution to be made to substantially accelerate the realisation of housing projects. Mrs Beckerman, and not only she, has pointed out that the housing shortage is a real national problem. I have just said that I want to take this up with the Housing Agenda and the national direction together with all parties. I believe that we all recognise that there is a great deficit and that this needs to be resolved. Together, we have been able to find a number that we think is pretty much the gauge on which we should be heading. We're on it. We all do that to make sure that there is more air in the housing market. More specifically, Mr Kops's question was how we can ensure shorter waiting times. In the People's Housing State, Mr Kops has also been able to read what the figures are. I was disappointed that Mr Kops once again distinguished between different population groups. Of course we do not. I'm just looking at the demand and the region. These can be different, with growth in one region and shrinking in the other. We try to determine locally as much as possible what is needed, taking into account waiting lists. Those waiting lists also have many different reasons. It depends very much on whether they are people who already live in a social home, but who might want to move to another home, or whether they are start-ups who are not already on the housing market at all. So there is a little more finesse behind it than Mr Kops might have just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u141	Surely it's striking that the Minister is saying this. It's this cabinet that makes a difference. The cabinet discriminates by demanding status holders for years, giving priority to free homes. That is the reality. It's such a shame we don't hear from the Minister about that. Is the Minister, quite specifically, prepared not to let that happen again, so to ensure that no homes are given away to status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mr Kops has a bit of his own presentation. I am against discrimination in the housing market in any form. We shall come to that in a moment. We have a very special system in the Netherlands, of social rent, of housing corporations and of responsibilities for municipalities. In doing so, we will, if necessary, provide housing for special groups. I'm glad we have that system here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u143	The Minister says she is against discrimination, but the Dutch have been discriminated against for years, including in the housing market, by promoting status holders. Why doesn't the Minister, if she's supposedly really against discrimination, put an end to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u144	I really have a bit of a problem with what Mr Kops is saying. It's bullshit, of course. In our system, which functions, we ensure that people who need it get a place in the housing market. That's hard enough as it is. It will only become more complicated if Mr Kops presents a picture of things that I do not recognize at all. Again, I am glad that in the Netherlands we and the municipalities, where this is necessary for special reasons, pay particular attention to groups on the housing market. Mr. Chairman. I think that answers the questions about housing and the housing agenda. I would like to turn to the questions that have been asked about mid-term rental, but I see that Mr Krol feels differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u145	In my contribution, I also mentioned the many farms that cease to exist. I saw the minister nodding in agreement. Is she gonna come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u146	I'll get back to you on that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u147	I'm gonna sit back down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u148	I can do it now, since Mr Krol is bringing it up. He has mentioned in the AO examples of personal initiatives that people take, for example by choosing from a certain age a form of life in which people take care of each other. I find that very inspiring. The same goes for the example he mentioned about inheritance. I am convinced that there are opportunities there, including to increase the attractiveness of regions. When I talk about shrinking regions, I will certainly not fail to include this idea. Mr President, then there is the middle-rent segment, which we have also talked about recently. It's high on the agenda, of your Chamber, of the Cabinet and also of me. It is good that we so often stress the urgency of this. Agreements are also made at the various co-operation tables in the Netherlands, with municipalities, corporations and the market. Part of it is about the existing stock. It's about flowing. It is about the new Law on the Rent Committees, which we have also discussed here. It is also often about the need for close cooperation between the parties and the need to work together to find solutions. Hence, I would like to support local developments that should lead to more middle rent. I would also like to point out in this case that the primary responsibility lies with the local parties. I heard Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Ronnes say that it would be undesirable if middle rentals were to be added, but this would become priceless immediately because of price increases and therefore no longer a middle rent. Of course I agree with them. Van Gijzel's report talked about the emergency button for local customization. That's the advice. As far as I am concerned, the starting point here is that the aim should be to prevent excessive rent increases and that market players continue to invest, which they will do as long as they get a reasonable return. In addition, it's about local customization. This is not a unilateral decision by municipalities, for example. It is important that the various parties together say: we think it is necessary temporarily to do something extra. It is therefore not a permanent scheme which is only desired by the municipalities themselves, but local tailor-made work that is needed to bridge the current situation of the tense housing market to a more normal, relaxed housing market where there is no longer a huge pressure on prices in the middle rental.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u149	I can now hear the Minister speaking more enthusiastically about Van Gijzel's emergency button than in previous debates. I also hear the Minister say that the market must continue to invest. Does she agree with the VVD that corporations should also continue to sell social housing because this also produces middle-rent housing? The Minister also says that this button cannot be pressed unilaterally by municipalities. Well, of course I applaud that very much. The Minister also talks about the sector. How does she see it and do we, as a Chamber, have anything to say about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mr Koerhuis is now showing more enthusiasm than before. I think this also depends a little on the question that is being asked to me. If the question is whether I am in favour of regulating the middle-rent segment, then my answer is that I am not in favour of it. If the question is whether I can see that there is a big bottleneck at the moment, in the sense that there is a huge shortage of middle-rental homes and that where they are being realized, the prices are rising, and if I want to do something about it, then I would like to talk about it because I do see that problem. But then it would be about an emergency button that has a temporary character, which is something else. That is what I said today in relation to my previous statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u151	If this is it, I welcome it, because that can already be done in zoning plans. With a general measure of government you can keep the rent increases limited when creating middle rentals. So if this is it, then I understand the difference in response and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u152	That would be good, because then we are very much in agreement. Mr Koerhuis also asked whether I agree that housing companies should be able to continue selling. I believe that housing companies should have a good policy. They are there to ensure a good stock of social housing. In addition, they can very well fit that they sell part of their stock but that they also mainly invest in new social housing and in sustainability. The other point was unity. A good proposal from a particular region is a proposal on which the municipalities, housing corporations and market players have also contributed. As far as I am concerned, that would be the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u153	Do we have anything to say about it as a Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u154	Always. Mr. Koerhuis is right, of course. I think that today, and perhaps later in this debate, we can give each other the outline for this. There's a report on which you've seen the reaction. The Chamber responded to that too. Now it's about working out the emergency button. I'll tell you where I'd like to check that out. If the Chamber has any more specific thoughts on this matter, you can of course give it to me. I hope that I have now made it clear what I would like to test it on. I think I have dealt with this issue sufficiently. Mr Ronnes asked about the housing corporations and the middle rent. If I understood his question correctly, otherwise he would have to correct me for a moment, we would also like to talk about the effective use of the existing stock. So it's about new, but it's also about the existing stock. There have been agreements with corporations on the separation between SGEIs and non-DAEBs. In the conversations I have with the corporations, I did not understand that the flexible use of their housing stock leads to major bottlenecks. If there were, I would, of course, be prepared to look at it, because I had the impression that Mr Ronnes had received such signals. Then Mrs Beckerman, who is actually also about to rent the middle...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u155	Before you continue, no interruption, but Mr. Ronnes, you wanted...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u156	Mr. Chairman. This is not an interruption, but the Minister was wondering if she understood me correctly. Well, then I guess it's a good idea for me to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u157	Yeah, that's why I'm giving you the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mr Van Gijzel has proposed two emergency buttons. In particular, it was up to us to do that second emergency button, that you are flexible with social housing that you temporarily place in the liberalised segment and then fall back into the social segment. My request is that this element should also be included in the options you are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u159	Then you explained this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u160	Then you have indeed explained this and I will, of course, include it in that assessment. I wanted to see Mrs Beckerman, but I actually realize that I have already taken her question with me because of the change in her question. That's why I'm moving on to Mrs. Voortman. She also talked about this issue: social rental, waiting lists, sales of social housing. She says: that is a problem. Here again I come back to the local responsibilities, the local assessment of how much is needed. How much social housing is needed locally? In an interrupting debate, I also thought with Mrs Voortman, the suggestion was raised that local parties could, for example, use a chain clause so that after sale the rent remains affordable. That is indeed also a form that can be applied. So there are several ways to steer locally also on size, composition, quality and rental price. In any case, I am fully available, also with the so-called expert team building from BZK, to always check with the municipalities the possibilities of municipalities themselves before such a request could be made to use that emergency button. Perhaps it is good to note something in that context too, because that was also Mrs Voortman's question about the development of rents. The Housing Agenda also announced that Aedes, the Housing Union, the IVBM and Real Estate Interest are working on a joint proposal for a new lease agreement. Of course, that is still being discussed. In recent years, of course, we have seen that the corporations have properly fulfilled their responsibility for affordable rent by simply keeping to the agreements on this matter. So the rent increase in 2017 was 1.1%, including rent harmonisation, and if you ignore that harmonisation, the rent increase for incumbent tenants was 0.5%. Inflation is also low, of course. So because of the rent limit, due to the appropriate allocation, a lot is already being done to keep that social segment affordable. I would very much welcome the fact that parties would be able to agree on a new lease, as announced in the Housing Agenda. But of course I'd like to give them the opportunity to do so. I expect to know more about this before 1 October. In relation to rents, rents and rents, Mr Nijboer has said a few things, not for the first time. He has consistently pointed that out. Consistently, I say that there is no question of a cut in the rent allowance from the cabinet. However, there is another system whereby we allow the rent surcharge and its increase to be determined by the price development in the rents and no longer link them to the development of the assistance in this case. On the other hand, there is an increase in income. This is happening in view of the poverty trap, which we naturally want to avoid as much as possible. Mr Nijboer suggested that, if there is a surplus on the rent payment, we could use it for the tenants. Mr Nijboer knows that I too must abide by the budgetary rules. So I don't have that option. I hope that I have answered the questions about the rents and the rent surcharge to a sufficient extent. Mr Koerhuis asked about the liberalisation agenda. The corporations are also here locally in consultation with the local authorities themselves best able to assess which homes there is a need for. That could be very different. It may well be that, by giving municipalities the space to build new social homes that match the needs that exist..................................................................................................................................................................................... So it's actually about effective stock management at local level. Finally, in this block, the rent increases that Mr Kops was talking about. He too is consistent. Let me be consistent in his direction. In recent years, the rent increase has been the lowest since times. From 2013 onwards, there has been a gradual decrease in the overall rent increase from 4.1% in 2013 to 1.1% in 2017. The monitoring of the rental policy in 2017 shows that the average rent increase in the regulated segment over a period of one year, from 1 July 2016 to 1 July 2017, came to 1.1% excluding harmonisation. I said something about that earlier. This is all due to the limitation of the rent increase. Mr Kops is asking for a general rent reduction. He may ask that, but I think it is much better to continue with what we are working with now, namely to ensure that the increase is limited. That is a sensible and realistic policy. I fear that Mr Kops' suggestion is unrealistic. We are asking a lot, including the housing corporations, when it comes to investing in new social housing and sustainability. Mr President, I come to the subject of corporations and the burden on them. Several spokesmen, including Mrs Beckerman, have spoken about this. We have the landlord's tax. We have the ATAD directive which, in principle, aims to counter tax avoidance by shifting interest charges within a group. As such, he does not see the Dutch housing corporations. I actually agree with everyone who says that. However, the cabinet believes that we should always ensure equal tax treatment of equity and debt. That is our objective for all sectors. An exception for housing corporations would, of course, be very crazy. We have, of course, talked about this very well within the cabinet. Mr Snel, to whom I often refer when we talk about this subject, is also very careful. We believe that such an exception could lead to a situation in which we give state aid. You can't. That is why we believe that it should indeed apply to housing corporations. Mr President, if that does not lead to supplementary questions, I shall continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u161	This is an invitation!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u162	Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u163	Okay, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u164	Mr President, I would like to ask a question about this, but I was wondering if the Minister was going to continue with the burden on corporations. Then I'll wait until that block is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u165	No, just ask your question, I would like to say to Mrs Beckerman, if that is allowed by the President, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u166	Yes. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u167	I really don't understand the logic at all. We have a tax that is intended for tax-evasive multinationals. Then a fifth of that tax, 22%, has to be paid by tenants who are not tax-evasive multinational, and that makes it much harder to build. That's very complicated, because we have a housing shortage. So the tax is already not meant for them and it only causes more problems. Now I can ask you for the third, fourth and fifth time to abolish ATAD, but I know you are not going to do that. I'll try it by motion. But what are you going to do? The housing corporations are really getting in the way of their spending space. You want to build. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u168	I have just argued why we do not see any possibility of excluding housing companies as such from this measure. As I have said before, there are some burdens which we have to deal with, and this is one of them. There are also load reliefs on the other side. As of 2022, I believe, the cabinet will release 100 million for sustainability. We're moving towards a lower VPB fare. I think it is very important for the housing corporations to look at the whole of what we are asking of them. When it comes to the investment capacity of housing corporations, there is not really a problem in its entirety; there is investment space. Only if you zoom in on individual housing corporations or certain regions can it prove that it is not equally divided. That is also something I want to include in my assessment, because we obviously need the housing corporations very badly. I'm in agreement with them on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mrs. Beckerman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u170	Now the Minister says: they can pay an extra tax because the investment space is not limited everywhere. But the Social Housing Guarantee Fund says: the corporations have 13.6 billion extra space, but they also need 9.4 billion for sustainability? So there is only 4.2 billion left that could be used to build and possibly make rent reductions. However, no account has yet been taken of the ATAD, the increase in rental tax or the increase in corporation tax. Then we really get to a very low amount. You said that this would replace 100 million in 2022. But that's really not enough money to get them to build. When do you really want to give the corporations relief? When are these plans coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u171	My aim is that the housing corporations can do what they are for, namely building social housing, ensuring sufficient stock in the social sector and making the existing housing stock more sustainable. That's what they're for, and they need that space. At the same time, of course, we are also faced with fair tax treatment. That is why it is best that you speak to the Cabinet about this when we have been able to present everything around the entire fiscal agenda, i.e. the Tax Plan, and that we do not now rely on calculations of one or the other. You may ask the cabinet: give me a complete picture. In August, I believe, when we consider this kind of thing together, we will bring all this together. Then we can discuss this in the autumn. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another question from Mrs Beckerman. Municipalities have several instruments. We've just discussed what they can do with zoning plans. The same applies to the land price. This is also part of the palette that municipalities have to pursue housing policy. I expect municipalities to start working from an integrated vision of living in their municipality and to involve local parties. Of course, the land price should be part of that. I have heard several aldermen and congregations speak about this. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna move on, 'cause I thought I still had a few points. Discrimination in the housing market. I think that is an extremely important subject. The example we have now read in the media was about a housing corporation in Hoensbroek. Discrimination - I also said it last time - in whatever form, including in the housing market - is really unacceptable. If I have understood the messages correctly, the current administration of this housing corporation has made it very clear that this cannot of course be done. I look at the reports from the media and, if I understand correctly, they have taken steps to ensure that this can no longer happen. Of course, it's too crazy for words what we've read about this. I understand that the prosecution is investigating the possibility of prosecution, so that it can be established whether this is a criminal offence. In short, I strongly reject it. When we discussed this last time, I said that I would like to speak with the sector. That conversation is coming up; it's on for next week's roll. It will be a conversation with a broad representation from the sector. I would like to agree with the Chamber that I should inform the Chamber at the end of that discussion, because I will have a better view of the steps that have been taken. Then we can judge whether we have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u172	We talked about this last time. My point is that I think this is so serious that I believe that the Minister of the Interior should not only speak with sectors and condemn this unacceptable behaviour, but should also act on her own behalf. A fellow executive, Minister Van Ark of the VVD, does so at the temporary employment agencies. She goes after it, she raises the fines, puts mystery guests in it: she says it's unacceptable and she's going to wipe it out because we don't want this in this country. I would ask the Minister to take action on his own behalf for property seekers with brokers and housing corporations, perhaps even with private landlords. She didn't intend to do that last time, and I'm asking for another scandalous incident. Hopefully it's an incident, but I'm afraid it's more widespread to do so anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u173	I very much agree with Mr Nijboer that this is unacceptable and should not happen. I fully support the way in which the labour market is being tackled and Mr Nijboer outlined it. We talked about this last time. We completely agreed on the fact that we do not want this to occur in the Netherlands. That's why I'm going to have the conversation with those parties. I have said that it is important to see whether those involved themselves are doing enough to prevent this from happening. The case that came into the media was about something that had played in the past and which the housing corporation itself says she has taken steps against. I'll make sure that's true. If I feel that parties themselves are able to prevent this from happening, that would be nice. It would be nice if I could express my confidence in it. But of course, I'm not having that conversation for nothing. If it's necessary to do more about it, I won't forget it. Mr Nijboer says that I must do so now. He looks a bit for the parallel with the mystery guest that is deployed in other sectors. You know the government can't do solicitation on its own. That's pretty much the border the government's bound to in that case. I do not want to exclude anything for the future within that limit, but I do think I should do it carefully, also towards the sector. I note that they have at least said themselves that what has happened is, of course, inadmissible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u174	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u175	We do agree that it is unacceptable. Only 46 out of 50 real estate agents discriminate. Then you cannot say: let the sector solve it itself. We really disagree on that. I think the Minister should do something. She doesn't just have to talk, she has to do what she does and perform so that people are afraid and it doesn't happen anymore. We have to wipe it out. Unfortunately, I have to say that she is not prepared to do so. I filed a motion last time. D66 was a driver of the broadcast debate. The cabinet is doing something there and the PvdA has fully supported that. I really hope that the same method will be applied to house seekers, because this goes through society as a whole. Whether we are talking about internships, finding jobs or finding homes, we must eradicate discrimination. We shouldn't let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u176	No, we really agree on that. Discrimination is inadmissible. We shouldn't allow that. It is unacceptable in the Netherlands. I'm gonna have that conversation. At the moment, I have no signs that it is being discussed systematically. I'm not ruling anything out for the future. If necessary, we should certainly not exclude additional measures, a little in the direction that Mr Nijboer has just mentioned. But give me the opportunity to have that conversation in full intensity with the sector. Then I'll report back to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u177	I'm a little confused. I hear the Minister saying in words that she hates it, that she's going to deal with it, that she's going to do something about it and that she's going to talk. But we're talking about March 28th, on which the investigation was presented. 90% of the real estate agents said "I like to cooperate" and break the law. Then the Minister says, "Well, I still need to talk to them." We are now heading towards the end of May. Does the Minister have the impression that the words she uses are also reflected in the actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u178	Sure. I think it is a very urgent matter. I am also pleased that the Chamber has drawn attention to it. It is good that reports have been published in the media and now, of course, not because of the content of the messages. The fact that attention is paid to it is of course the most important thing, because it is a signal towards those who have thought about it too easily or actually broken the law. Then there are possibilities, because the hallway to the judge is always open. I hope that happens, too. We talked about this a month ago. I'll have that conversation with the sector next week. I do so with the utmost urgency. I would also very much like to tell the Chamber immediately afterwards what my impression is of the measures taken in the sector itself. I will be extremely firm in that conversation, which, in my view, is not enough, then we need to look at other measures. I shall do so with the support expressed here in the Chamber. But for that, I'd like to have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u179	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u180	I note that the Minister thinks it is important, but just not important enough. I find it really insufferable that two months have passed without the Minister saying: I invite the VNG, I invite the brokers and I let them tell us what they're going to do about it and how they're going to do it. I understand that, but then the question is what can you do about it as a government itself. The minister comes every time with the criminal route. We know how complicated that is. I think it's really easy. I simply do not believe that the Minister is really prepared to deal with it as an urgent problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u181	I hope, however, that Mr Azarkan, from what I have said and from what I have said, will make it clear that I think it is an extremely serious problem, that I give priority to it and that next week I will bring it to the attention of the House with great urgency. That happened immediately after we discussed this with each other last time. Mr. Chairman. This was in response to the various comments made in response to the current reports on discrimination in the housing market. I have a number of other questions under the heading, first of all a question from Mr Ronnes on the implementation of a motion by himself and Mrs Van Eijs on the position of start-ups in the housing market. This motion calls for a discussion on real opportunities for starters in the Platform Mortgages. I would like to say to Mr Ronnes as an intermediary that I assume that I can inform the Chamber before the summer of the results of this. Another question from Mr Ronnes was about an impact analysis, namely the impact of sustainability on the housing market or on the housing market. housing. Firstly, I would like to point out that we share the view that this should be made more sustainable and that we should not miss out on opportunities. Within the framework of the climate agreement and then specifically the table built environment, but also in the discussions I have with the regions in the context of the Housing Agenda, this coherence will be addressed. Because what Mr Ronnes is describing, namely a link between sustainability ambition on the one hand and acceleration on the other, I can see, of course. At the same time, I think that sometimes there are opportunities to let them go hand in hand, so affordability, sustainability and acceleration do not have to be the opposite. They're hanging out with each other. Choices will be made about which step first or that it can be integral, so all three ambitions at once. So it is a point of interest that I have taken into account in the regional discussions and in the Housing Agenda. Mrs Van Eijs asked about the NHG premium. That is a question that she, and also the Chamber, has asked before. The investigation is still ongoing. My intention was to inform you in the budget, i.e. in the autumn, about that research and about the possible co-financing of the NHG premium. So there will be. The natural gas-free new construction. This concerns the so-called FAT Act which will enter into force on 1 July. Mr Bishop but others also talked about it. The entry into force decision was recently published. It may seem very short-term, but at the same time this was part of previous agreements made, including in the inter-administrative programme. Let us also say to each other that it is, of course, a waste of time to supply homes with a natural gas connection, knowing that we are all going to get rid of that natural gas. Where there are very far-reaching plans, where there are real problems, there is indeed the possibility of giving an exception. Mr. Azarkan asked about starters. That's a fair point. We've been talking about it for a while. For starters in the housing market it is very difficult at the moment to find an affordable home. This applies not only to start-ups, but also to start-ups, both in the buying and rental sector. Therefore, construction production needs to be accelerated. That is why the flow must be improved. That's actually the whole link of the housing market where this is playing. I very much welcome the fact that there are ambitious construction plans for the most tense regions, Amsterdam, Utrecht, because that is the only way to solve this issue, especially for those start-ups. I would like to send a letter to your Chamber after the summer in response to various motions on this matter. I have just mentioned the NHG premium, but there are also motions on the possibilities of start-ups. So there's a comprehensive letter coming to your room. Another question from Mr Nijboer, who is actually in line with what I just said to Mr Ronnes about sustainability. I believe that the point was that it was somewhat less provocative in the Housing Agenda, but in the context of the climate agreement, the table for the built environment led by Diederik Samsom is at work for the sustainability of the built environment. At this table, all parties are discussing sustainability, the release of natural gas from housing and neighbourhoods, and the affordability of sustainability. These are, of course, to a large extent also the parties who have participated in the Housing Agenda and who have endorsed it. As soon as there is a result, we will, of course, inform the Chamber. Mr Bishop of the SGP asked about cooperation with the various levels of government. The whole debate has already shown how important it is for me to make such agreements at these regional tables with these different levels of government, however complicated it may be, because each level of government has its own responsibility again. I have just spoken with Mr Ronnes about the responsibility of the provinces when it comes to planning capacity. Furthermore, the water boards have good ideas and also a responsibility for the spatial importance. For example, when I talk about climate adaptation and housing, the Union of Water Councils has a very important voice in this. By working together and sitting at those tables together, all these interests come together, so that not everyone is only concerned with their own interests, but with the integrality of those interests. Something has just been said about accessibility. Of course, that's one of them very clearly. Mr Koerhuis asked about the landlord's tax, the more expensive rentals and the motion on the WNT. He tabled that motion in an earlier debate. We are now exploring around that incentive in the landlord's tax. For this, there is contact with the Tax Administration and the RVO. The legal aspects are also considered. I think that after the summer, if I would also like to send a broader letter to the Chamber on the landlord's tax, I can come back to this and then to Mr Ronnes' motion on the rise in the landlord's tax. Mr Bishop asked how changes in the loan system could affect start-ups. I was just talking about the Platform Mortgages. This is where annual discussions take place, also in connection with potential bottlenecks in the mortgage market. Mr Bishop, I think, is particularly concerned about the study system and the reduction of the maximum loan to value, the LTV. A number of concrete actions are under way in these areas. The Nibud and Platform Mortgages, just called, investigate whether the weighting of student loans unnecessarily hampers access for start-ups. I think I will be able to inform the Chamber in the autumn about this and about the NHG premium we were just discussing. In addition to the rent increase, Mr Kops of the PVV also talked about the increase in energy costs. This is a subject that we have debated on a number of occasions. On the whole, I have just said that there is a moderate rent increase for the social sector. As a cabinet, of course, we look at the entire purchasing power development. Energy prices are of course a relevant factor for people in their wallet. I totally agree with that. We're paying attention to that, too. That's how we're working on the National Energy Explorer. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy has promised this to the Chamber. Of course, people look at the total housing costs, including energy costs. It is, of course, important that we try to control these energy costs a little bit. We are also talking about this in the intergovernmental programme with the co-governments. Part of the climate agreement will be the cost aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u182	Have you come to a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u183	Yes. I have two more questions and answers, Mr President. Mr Koerhuis asked about the mortgages. He noted that there are now mortgages with a long maturity of 40 years for start-ups. He mentioned the silver mortgage. Thus, lenders have opportunities to market this type of new product. That starter mortgage for 40 years is one of them, even if there is only a 30-year mortgage interest rate discount. The Snels/Dijkgraaf motion explores the possibilities and consequences of limiting the repayment obligation to a residual debt of 30%. The Chamber will be informed about this after the summer. No, I'm sorry, even before the summer, I can promise Mr Koerhuis. So the same goes for the Platform Mortgages we just talked about. Then there's the last question. That was a question from Mrs Van Eijs on the regulation of holiday parks. We have, of course, seen poignant examples of this. The cabinet is now working on a plan of approach, which addresses the whole issue of holiday homes. This is the subject of consultation with various parties, including the RIEC, it should actually be plural: regional centres to see how we could come up with a rural approach and what we can learn from each other. I fully agree with Mrs Van Eijs that there are great differences between holiday parks and their potential. So there's an investigation going on right now. As soon as that's done, I'd like to make that available to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In any case, I am through the answer I had prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u184	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u185	I had asked another question about cities where the number of social housing units is decreasing, while there is a waiting list for people. I said myself: GroenLinks' starting point is not a reduction in the number of social housing units in cities as long as there is a waiting list there. I was wondering if the Minister agrees with that point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u186	However, I have just argued that I think it is very much a local responsibility to assess the need for housing and how best to implement it. So here I say a bit with the VNG: let's see what the new municipal authorities are thinking. I am not yet ready to see that what Mrs Voortman is describing is going on in a general sense and that I want to do something about it. But I would like to involve it in the talks I have with the regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u187	In neighborhoods where there are a lot of social rentals, you could say: okay, maybe you should sell some properties there anyway. I could imagine that. But if you know there's a shortage, isn't it logical that you should at least make sure that the number of social housing stays up? It can't be explained to anyone looking for a social rental home that in the city where he needs a social rental house and is on the waiting list, the number of social rental homes is now decreasing? Isn't that something the Secretary of State has to agree to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u188	I like to look at it by region. Sometimes that's a little bit wider than the city. I believe that the regions, including the municipalities within them, can best identify what their housing needs are and what is the best solution in the long term. In general, I think that the bottleneck is not only in social rent or in middle rent alone. The bottleneck is just across the board. That's what I've just outlined. It will not be easy to solve this, and it will also differ from one region to another what is the best solution. In one region it is possible to add more middle rent as soon as possible, but in another region it can be a different solution. There, for example, we can talk about the quality of the houses. So it's really happening across the board. But I will, of course, also ask why municipalities make the choices they make, and whether in the end, for the whole of the Netherlands, this will bring a much better situation, including with regard to the waiting lists referred to by Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u189	Mr. Ronnes, you no longer have any interruptions, but you will have the opportunity to name only those questions that have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u190	I have missed two more answers to the following questions. First of all, the crooked habitation. Is the Minister prepared to investigate whether there are any measures to really counteract crooked living? Then a second...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u191	Can I...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u192	What's the second question? Maybe we can do it in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u193	The second is a qualitative question. We tabled a motion on the Weather Home Action Programme a while ago, in order to jointly draw up a plan to raise the supply of suitable housing for homeless people and care homes. How's that motion coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u194	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u195	On the last question, I must remain guilty of the answer to Mr Ronnes, but I can come back to that in the second period. In fact, I did not mention the point of mislocation, but I did say that it says in the Housing Agenda that we are aiming for a social lease agreement. The parties are in the process of doing so. I think the idea that Mr Ronnes has just put forward about the skewing should actually be reflected in the development of that social lease agreement. For my part, therefore, I will draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u196	Thank you. That saves me time again in the second term. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. I would like to ask her to comment on the abolition of the gas connection obligation. I understand what the intention is, and we support it, but with regard to plans that are already on the table, this can have profound consequences, including in terms of delays. What scope is there for entrepreneurs, builders and municipalities to exercise some flexibility in the context of a transitional period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u197	There is room for municipalities to make an exception for plans which are already at an advanced stage and which, for example, would jeopardise their realisation or affordability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u198	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. I give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks to the Minister, too. I'm gonna try to break my own record by filing six motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a large construction statement;]] [[Whereas the number of senior citizens is increasing further;]] [[Whereas they may have specific housing needs;]] [[calls on the government to allocate a proportionate proportion of the newly built housing to senior housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of senior citizens is increasing further;]] [[Whereas they may have specific housing needs;]] [[calls on the government to agree with the housing corporations to renovate a proportional proportion of existing social housing age-resistant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to provide insight into the housing needs of senior citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Voortman and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-366]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Voortman and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-367]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Voortman and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-368]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u200	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas waiting lists for a social housing unit are increasing to an unacceptable level in large cities;]] [[Whereas housing corporations are subject to tax accumulation;]] [[Whereas housing corporations can use this money better to increase the social housing stock;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the landlord's tax until the waiting lists in the social rental sector have been standardised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Beckerman and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-369]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u201	It's gonna be on paper later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u202	How many motions do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u203	Two more. I'm going to try to do that very quickly, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas technological developments can lead to drastically shifting residential requirements;]] [[Whereas these new requirements may reduce the pressure on large cities;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a vision of the qualitative housing needs in relation to technological developments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Voortman and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-370]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u204	It's possible. Well, I thought: perhaps I could help Mr Krol by taking over the motion, but then it must be a motion with my name on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u205	It can still be used, but the last one is very short. That's just one sentence. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of room for students;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the feasibility of the student campus at universities and colleges of applied sciences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-371]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u206	Azarkan. Sorry, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u207	Next time, I'm gonna check you out. Mr Nijboer has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u208	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet merely wants to examine whether the temporary increase in the income limit for the corporation sector of €41.056 will be extended;]] [[Whereas it is precisely middle income that has problems with the affordability of rents;]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of affordable housing for middle groups and housing corporations can play a greater role in resolving it;]] [[calls on the government not only to extend the increase in the income limit, but also to increase it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-372]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u209	I'll come back to discrimination. It is quite appalling that so little is being done about this. Mr Azarkan was right to say that the Minister had had two months to act against it, but nothing has actually happened yet. We'll get another report later. The minister says the people can go to court. But how the hell can you prove you were discriminated against in assigning a house? That's not an answer to such a serious problem, is it? That is why I shall retable the motion that has already been tabled. I hope that this motion will now receive parliamentary support, because we must act against it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is discrimination not only in finding work but also in finding a place to live;]] [[Whereas Article 1 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination and therefore requires public authorities to act against it;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with local authorities, to fight discrimination more actively by actively detecting violations and sanctioning violations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Voortman, Mr Azarkan and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-373]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u210	I have a question for Mr Nijboer. If I remember correctly, the operative part says "active detection." Now, I am sure Mr Nijboer also knows that if the government did that, for example by causing discrimination, it would not be doing very well. Or else should I explain the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u211	I think the Minister should do something about it. I've kept it wide, but it can be done in a number of ways. They're gonna work with mystery guests in the temporary agency business. The cabinet itself or the Labour Inspectorate will do so on behalf of the cabinet. You can set higher fines, you can run checks. I am all well and good, and I am open to the solutions that the cabinet sees, but the Minister is not ready to do anything yet. She wants to talk to the sector first, and I have no faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u212	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u213	Mr. Chairman. Because of the huge rent increases in the middle rental in certain areas I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that demand for middle-rent housing in scarcity areas is much higher than supply;]] [[noting that sufficient increase in supply through new construction due to several factors still lasts for at least a number of years;]] [[Whereas the Van Gijzel Committee therefore proposes, by means of a temporary measure, the emergency button, to allow municipalities, in consultation with the local cooperation table, to stop the extreme rentals in the middle rental sector;]] [[Calls on the Government to also address exorbitant rent increases for existing rentals, to examine what measures can serve as a temporary emergency stop, not to extend the WWS system, while taking into account the cost structure of the landlord including land price;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these measures are not at the expense of the construction of medium-term rentals in the longer term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-374]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u214	The motion sounds very good, but I have one more question. You say "explore opportunities," but that can of course be anything. You already exclude that the housing valuation system as we know it will be introduced in social rents. Then what are the options you're thinking about? I need that information to know how to vote. I would like to support the motion in itself, but not if it means, for example, that less social housing is an option. Could you give me some explanation on your direction of thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u215	I don't immediately see the connection to less social housing. The intention is that with a house that should have a normal price, so a middle rental price, you will see what the real value is and that it is not just because there are so ridiculously few properties available. You could look at the value of the property and what the real costs a landlord makes. There's nothing wrong with making money from a rental house, but there's something wrong with house milkers and using extremes in the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u216	Is it clear, Mrs. Beckerman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u217	Yes, it sounds very good, but it is a pity that the option of the WWS is not in it. According to the Van Gijzel Committee, that could help. The point about social rent was made by Mr Ronnes, so perhaps I should ask him again what he meant by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u218	No, Mr. Ronnes has already been. Oh, no, he's gotta go later. Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. I shall now go to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is difficult for housing corporations to meet construction objectives because municipalities sell their building land very expensive;]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of housing and the need for more affordable social housing;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage municipalities to sell their land at affordable prices to housing corporations and thus not to set up financial thresholds for housing corporations so that more affordable rental houses can be quickly realized,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to introduce the European Directive to curb tax avoidance by international companies, the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD), in such a way that housing corporations are employed for around EUR 300 million a year;]] [[whereas this is a measure to tackle tax avoidance of international companies, but it affects a domestic non-profit sector;]] [[Furthermore, whereas corporations, and thereby tenants, are already subject to additional taxation by an increasing landlord's tax and corporation tax;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure full respect for housing corporations in the development of ATAD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Voortman, Mr Krol and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-375]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Voortman, Mr Krol and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-376]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I have, above all, signed motions for resolutions, because that saves speaking time. Colleagues have tabled motions which I could wholeheartedly endorse. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has answered a number of questions I had asked. I noticed that she places the responsibility above all on municipalities. Now, of course, municipalities also have a great responsibility when it comes to living, but at the same time the same municipalities also indicate that they can't do it alone and that calling and making non-binding agreements with all kinds of parties doesn't help. They sometimes ask for further measures and legal measures. For example, think of more regulation or the possibility to increase the WWS system, so that it will apply to larger groups of houses. I do not see such measures in the Minister's response. I also asked the Minister if she could indicate what her starting points are. On social rental, I said that the starting point should be that as long as there are waiting lists in a municipality, there should be no reduction in the number of social housing. Here, too, the minister points to municipalities. But as a minister, you do have a vision of how to deal with the number of social housing units? I would like to ask her whether she could give a clearer answer to that question. For the moment, I see every reason to continue the initiative law of Mr Nijboer, Mrs Beckerman and GroenLinks. I think it's important that we maintain the number of social housing units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u221	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. I now turn to Mr Koerhuis on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motion for a resolution on my part, but I would like to ask you about the construction plan in the National Housing Agenda. We are now on a construction production of 66,000 a year. The Minister has the ambition to go to 75,000. That still seems to me to be on the skinny side. I am not really convinced that this is going to solve the current deficit of 200,000 and that it is going to build those 1 million houses. I would like to have a somewhat more detailed response from the Minister. This can be done in a letter or as part of the next report on the construction plan, which comes on 1 October. I would like to say one more thing: I am looking at Mr Krol......................................................................................................................................................................................... There's a motion from VVD and CDA on silver mortgage. I would like a more detailed response from the Minister. I hear from the sector that things are going very well, but that it is now covered by the tailor-made table. Does it have to be a customized product? Shouldn't it be a bulk product? Or are there legal hooks and eyes attached to that? I think it is important to help people stay home longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u223	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis. I will now go to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u224	Thank you, Mr President. The PVV keeps repeating it: rent down, energy bill down. Admittedly, I am repeating myself, but I have to say that as long as there is simply no political will at the Minister's to actually reduce the burden, it will not happen. In this respect, this is once again a debate without result, because the political will is simply not there, as the answer has shown. And that's too bad. Mr. Chairman. The Minister does not agree, but the fact is that the Dutch are discriminated against because status holders are given priority residences. This road minister just doesn't want to see it and he's okay with it. That's outrageous. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no more social housing is given to status holders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-377]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u226	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u227	Mr. Chairman. We've filed a motion with D66 regarding the middle rent. I submit two additional motions, the first on corporations, affordability and skewed living. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas expensive and cheap living is a distorting factor for a well-functioning housing market;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[examine how a system can be developed whereby the annual rent (both up and down) for the seated tenants can be re-evaluated on the basis of family income, so that the rent can be adjusted accordingly;]] [[involve the corporate sector and the tenant organisations;]] [[inform the Chamber of the results;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-378]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u228	I would like to comment on the motion tabled by Mrs Van Eijs and which you supported. In the first term, you said it's an option for me to sacrifice social housing. Is that what's behind that motion? I think the motion is still very vague. So in order to vote for or against, I would like to know a little more. What options do you see?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u229	In fact, the options given by Mr Van Gijzel in his report. There's an option of the emergency button. The second option is a flexible use of social housing. Especially in places with a surplus of social rent, you can use those homes for middle rent, but that should not be at the expense of the balance of supply in the social rental sector. I would like to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u230	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u231	But that's weird. Mr Van Gijzel mentioned several emergency buttons. For example, one of these emergency buttons is to flush the WWS system. You are asking for an investigation in your motion, but you are already removing that option from Van Gijzel. Why aren't both options in the motion, so we can make a proper assessment later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u232	That is explicitly mentioned in the motion. We do not want to introduce a permanent regulated system in the middle rental segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u233	Please continue. You have another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u234	Yes, I certainly have, Mr. Chairman, on the planning capacity. I said I'd come back to it in the second term. I'll do that on this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several provinces have an acute shortage of hard planning capacity for housing construction and the practice shows that the full planning capacity is never realised;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the provinces to release the brake on the realisation of hard planning capacity and to switch to over-programming;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether a "failure repair" of the Ladder of Sustainable Urbanization is desirable in order to avoid overprogramming in the courts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ronnes and Mr Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-379]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u235	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for replying. Besides all those blisters on her hands of massaging, she will now have some blisters on her tongue of answering all the questions. Mr. Chairman. I was a little sad about the answer on how to deal with discrimination by brokers, which means that people don't have access to homes. It is already complicated, and if it is true that some people do not have access at all, then I find that extremely sad. I have tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by De Groene Amsterdammer shows that over 90% of the rental agents are willing to cooperate in discriminatory applications for housing rentals;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether naming-and-saming can be an instrument against rental agents cooperating in discriminatory requests and to inform the Court of Justice by the end of this year at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-380]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u236	Mr. Chairman. Then there is another injustice, which is about the ATAD directive, which aims to prevent tax avoidance. I have tabled a motion on this subject which has been co-signed by Mr Korrel, I am sorry, Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u237	I thought it wasn't chosen, I don't know it in the room. Then you're 1-1 now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u238	Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the waiting periods for social housing in Amsterdam and Utrecht are about eight years and in The Hague and Rotterdam are about three years;]] [[believes that it is very important that housing companies can invest in order to reduce these long waiting periods;]] [[whereas Aedes indicates that housing corporations will be unintentionally affected by the implementation of the EU ATAD Directive in 2019;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibilities for reducing the impact of ATAD on housing corporations as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-381]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u239	I need a few minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u240	Very briefly, because we are running very late and that is annoying for the next debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u241	I will reopen the meeting and give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u242	Mr. Chairman. It was a lot of motions. I just needed to make sure the administration was in order. A single question has just been asked. Mr Koerhuis still wonders whether these 75,000 homes per year are sufficient. I will indeed come back to this, at least to the State of the housing market coming in the autumn. I think that was also the question that Mr Koerhuis asked me. So yeah, I'll get back to you. Mr Ronnes was also responsible for an answer on a motion he tabled on an earlier occasion on housing for homeless people and social care. Work is currently under way with VNG, Aedes and social reception organisations to develop them and to develop a plan for better arrangements so that more housing is available de facto. I expect to have an agreement on this in the very near future, and I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Then, also for the sake of time, I quickly move on to the motions. The motion in part No. 366, tabled by Mr Krol, asks the government to allocate a proportional proportion of the newly built housing to senior housing. I fully agree with Mr Krol that this should be done. Just because he says that the government should do so, I must advise against the motion, because this is precisely what local customization needs to be done, about which the municipalities, housing corporations, landlords' associations and so on make performance agreements. So I find it very sympathetic and I will certainly bring it to the fore in the regional talks, but in this form I would have to advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u243	I'd like to suggest, Mr. Krol, that the Minister handle all your motions first. Then you will have the opportunity for one question. Otherwise, you're gonna ask six questions, because you've tabled six motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u244	Also in the case of the motion in part No. 367 by Mr Krol is my point that this is an appeal to the government to make agreements with housing corporations, in this case on the renovation of social housing. This will have to be done, it will be monitored, but it must be done locally, so for that reason, in this form, I must discourage the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Krol asked for a better understanding of the needs of senior citizens. I would like to take this with me in the State of the Housing Market, which is going to the Chamber in the autumn, to be precise in November. I recognize the call and I like it. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Krol asked the government to suspend the landlord's levy. That is, with all due respect, an uncovered motion, which I must discourage for that reason. The motion in part No. Mr Krol asked the government to come up with a vision of the quality of living requirements in relation to technological developments. It is, of course, always extremely difficult to look into the future and to predict precisely this innovation and technological developments. Nevertheless, I am prepared to come back to this in the State of the housing market and I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the House. The motion in part No. Mr Krol asked Mr Krol to examine the feasibility of the student campus at universities and colleges of applied sciences. An action plan for student accommodation is under way. I can imagine that this kind of parts are part of that. This is done in consultation with other interested parties, including the Ministry of Education, but also with the municipalities, the representatives of students and the National Platform Student Housing. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u245	Mr Krol, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u246	I'll make it easy for the minister. If I go to the motions in part No. 366 and 367 after the word "government" add "to urge the municipalities"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u247	If Mr Krol amends his two motions on that point, that means that I explain it in such a way that I take it with me in my regional talks. Then it is part of the discussions as I intend to continue. They've already started, of course. Then it's policy support, but it can't be. So I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u248	I understand that Mr Krol's motions on documents Nos. 366 and 367 are amended. Then we go to Mr Nijboer's motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u249	Yeah, that's right. In the motion in part No. 372 Mr Nijboer asked the cabinet not only to extend the increase in the income limit, but also to increase it. Mr Nijboer knows that I do not have that plan at the moment. I would, however, like to comment on the allocation limit in the review of the Housing Act. That evaluation will come to the Chamber in the autumn. Mr Nijboer could hold his motion until then. In this form right now, I'm dissuading the motion. Then there is Mr Nijboer's motion for a resolution. 373 on discrimination. I have heard Mr Nijboer and many other Members of Parliament, in large words, distance themselves from discrimination in the housing market, and I have done so. I'm gonna keep doing it. That's why I'm having the conversation with the parties next week. I will speak in that kind of way there and I will report back to the Chamber on that. We're kind of looking for a way to do this most effectively. Of course, the sector itself must do everything in its power to do so, but we cannot rule out the need for more. I think that tackling discrimination in the labour market is an inspirational and good example. I'm really willing to do that, I'm having the conversation, I want to be very active in that. We have to do everything we can. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I am therefore in favour of the motion by Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Ronnes in respect of item No. 374. It calls on the government not to allow measures in the context of rent increases in the middle sector to be at the expense of the construction of medium-term rentals in the longer term. I would now like to sum up very briefly; there is much more in the motion. In the first period, it was clear that I believe that in the opinions on the so-called emergency button and on how to work in the municipalities, a specific application can be found that can work. This can take the form of a temporary measure at the request of the parties in the region. That might be necessary. I think that what the motion calls for is in line with what I have just explained. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. In the motion of Mrs Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 375 calls on the government to encourage municipalities to sell their building land at affordable prices and not to set financial thresholds. Those whose names are under the motion, I think I agree that municipalities should have the room locally to properly implement their local housing policies. With this motion you intervene in the local processes. The motion has financial implications for municipalities. I'd like to leave it to the municipalities and the local tables. I think we're going to see all this in the performance agreements. I'd like to dissuade the motion. In the motion in part No. 376 calls on the government to ensure that housing corporations are fully protected from the impact of ATAD. I have just outlined in the first term that we do not see that possibility in this way. There is the risk of State aid. For the time being, the motion does not provide for the financial consequences to be covered. I have to discourage the motion. Then there is Mr Kops' motion for a resolution. 377. I think it is important to note that of course what is in the motion is not correct. No social housing is given away to anyone. Our policy in the Netherlands is that people who need it, for example, because they are on the run from war, are welcome. Several people, but certainly also people with a status, are entitled to a home like other groups in the Netherlands. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 378 is a motion by Mr Ronnes with three requests for, in summary, corporations and affordability. I think it is right that the parties, tenants and landlords, should discuss this first. This will be done when the lease agreement is drawn up on the basis of the Housing Agenda. I find it difficult to attach conditions in advance to what they are discussing with each other. I believe that we should give the negotiations that are being conducted the full opportunity, but I am prepared to consider with the parties what such a system would mean. If I may give that explanation to the motion, I could leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u250	Mr Ronnes, I can see you nodding yes, but it can also be in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u251	Mr. Chairman. Agreed with the Minister's explanation. Thanks for the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u252	Fine, thank you. The motion in part No. 379 of Mr Ronnes and Mr Koerhuis deal with the Ladder for sustainable urbanization and planning capacity. I note that the Empire is not about programming the planning capacity. This is something that provinces are about, in consultation with the municipalities. I agree with the proposers that planning capacity is important to ensure sufficient housing in the future. We agree, I think, that there are great regional differences. I have also pointed out in the first period that overprogramming also entails risks, because it can also lead to financial damage for municipalities. But I will discuss with the provinces and municipalities how the planning capacity and housing needs in the different areas can best relate. On this basis, I will also discuss how sufficient planning capacity can be made available. In addition, I will take with me whether this Ladder of sustainable urbanization can constitute an obstacle. Having said that, I would like to leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 380 of Mr Azarkan requests that consideration be given to whether taking-and-shaming could be an instrument in tackling discrimination. I am willing to include this option in the conversation I will have next week, and I will, of course, inform the Chamber more about the possibilities we see from the Empire. With this explanation, I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 381 of Mr Azarkan and Mr Krol asked the government to consider the possibilities for reducing the impact of ATAD as far as possible. I do not really want to anticipate the agreements we make on the whole. I said that ATAD is one, but there are also other pluses and minuses; we have to look at that in its entirety. So I could suggest to Mr Azarkan that we hold that motion until the Chamber has also been given the opportunity to review the whole. If Mr Azarkan is not inclined to do so, then I would also advise against this motion at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u253	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u254	I'll arrest her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u255	At the request of Mr Azarkan, I propose his motion (22847, No. 381). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u256	That's how the answer came to an end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u257	I have come to the end of that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u259	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
