ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the burden of health care. I welcome the Minister for Medical Care and give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is exactly three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. About 1 million people in the Netherlands work in healthcare, and on average about 40% of their time are engaged in administrative activities. You can also say otherwise: if you walk into an average care facility, six people are busy taking care of the bed and four are behind the computer. And that's permanent! The cost of audit by auditors is rising rapidly. 87 million euros of care money was spent on accountants in 2016. That's money that's meant for the care, but that doesn't end up in the care. Mr. Chairman. How long have we been having discussions in this Chamber about minute registration, about how product codes encourage production to turn, about how health care drivers want to drag all kinds of labels in? They are forms of bureaucracy that do not come from the sky. They are in line with market forces as they have been introduced. A nurse says in De Groene: when I ride home, I know exactly which patient suffers from what after each operation, but in the meantime I have to do a check-up three times a day. That's a must. Then I have to score, otherwise the indicators don't add up. Mr. Chairman. This is not only about the increase in bureaucracy but also about the hollowing out of the professional, that you know that people have faith in your ability and in your judgment. Product and time registrations do not belong in healthcare if you rely on their professional. Therefore, don't book people with five-minute registrations but look at what good care looks like. Can the Minister say today that he is going to put a big line through the five-minute registrations, which some district nurses still have to work with? Mr. Chairman. Not the control and cost control should be leading, but the understanding of the professionals. Trust that at the right time they provide the care that the client needs. Can the Minister respond to that? Does he also see that this approach has much more future than the controlism that now paralyzes care? Mr. Chairman. Should I keep going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u3	I can only see that you were given three hours of speaking time by mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yeah, I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u5	Let's straighten that out. Mrs. Agema, in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. I'm a little confused. I believe that we are having a debate here on the costs of auditing that have increased, and only on that. We recently passed a motion on the five-minute registrations. In the debate we had last week, Minister De Jonge took that point. Mr Hijink also took part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u7	That's right, but I don't think one of them rules out the other. I've been talking about the accounting costs. As far as I am concerned, this debate is much broader and concerns the regulatory and regulatory burden we see throughout the sector. So I don't see the objection. Mr. Chairman. The scrap sessions that are organized sound very interesting, but for many healthcare workers this is mainly a repetition of moves. Is the Minister also prepared to delete rules if this is a line of the imposed competition that currently prevails in the health care sector? What struck me was a message about mental health care, which came straight from one of the scraping sessions yesterday. Jim van Os, professor of psychiatry, makes clear exactly where the pain is. He writes: we sit at this scraping conference to remove nonsense rules from the ggz, but we are now bound by politicians who have stipulated in the coalition agreement that the system should remain as it is. And that, of course, is exactly the nail on the head: you can delete until you weigh one on us, but the rules that this minister wants to fight are one-on-one linked to the system of control, market operation and production that he wants to maintain. My final question to the Minister is therefore: is he prepared to call into question the functioning of the market if he really wants to get rid of all these nonsense rules in the healthcare sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u8	This broad contribution is nice, but Mrs Marijnissen has really requested this debate in connection with research into the annual accounts and the costs for auditors. I do not hear you ask a single question about this. What exactly do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u9	Well, I already said that. I said that these costs now amount to EUR 87 million in healthcare money. I think that's a lot. I believe, in my mind, that an average of €127,000 per healthcare institution is spent on accounting costs. Then it is the accountants who, like the health insurance companies, are asking for more and more accountability and more control to see if the finances are right. That's not how good care looks. Good care is about the neighborhood nurse or the doctor confiding that he is doing what the patient or the client needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u10	Didn't you read the Minister's letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u11	Oh, yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u12	I do not think so, because the Minister's letter states that these checks are about checking whether declarations are effective and legitimate. And then you say, "I want to get rid of that?" The receipts therefore no longer need to be effective and legitimate...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u13	We had that discussion last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u14	You just didn't read the letter!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u15	No, no, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u16	Don't talk nonsense, Mrs. Agema!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u17	You just didn't. You're not asking for it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u18	I'll ask. I can really think of myself and remember whether or not I have read a letter, Mrs Agema. You don't have to tell me. Last week, Mrs Ellemeet quite rightly made a point of it: it is not at all so clear how to monitor precisely the effectiveness of care. An accountant is very difficult to identify what good quality care is. A district nurse will indicate something quite different in answer to the question of what good care is than a health insurance company or an accountant. A neighborhood nurse does not check whether the minute registrations are correct. He's wondering, is mister or ma'am getting any help? Is care saved here, or are we just checking to see if the minute registration is correct? That is precisely the debate we had last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u19	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u20	No, Mrs. Agema. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u21	I'm gonna have to back Mrs. Agema up a little bit. The SP has requested this debate because of the increasing cost of auditing. I found it difficult to write a contribution, because you can see that auditors are not the reason for the increase in costs. So I've also made my input a little broader. But in your speech, it seems that you are critical of the accountants. You say that the accountants are increasingly asking for accountability. Do you really think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u22	It has something of both. The cost of accounting has risen by about 12%, I say for the record. That's a pretty big increase. The Minister's letter also simply states that these costs are linked to the increasing need for control and understanding of what actions have been taken. Those costs are related to each other. So you can't see it apart from each other. I am indeed moving that line to the rest of the healthcare system, where you see that control and regulation are creating more and more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u23	I'm glad I asked this question, but I find the answer really shocking. The SP says that the accountants are partly responsible for the increase in healthcare costs. I can go along with it when it comes to the complexity of the system. But the SP here today claims it's the accountants. I'm really throwing that far from me. To be honest, I'm a little shocked, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u24	But I do not think Mrs Bergkamp is listening to my answer at all. I am just saying that the increase in costs is linked to the system as it has been set up. When you set up a system for actions rather than quality care, you ask for more and more accountability and more control. This leads to higher costs for the accountant in the end. It's really as bright as shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, everyone wants less administrative burden in health care, and of course the people who work in care are still the most. That is why it is good that we have two new ministers who are both going to do their stinking best to fight and reduce the rules. The subject before us today has increased accounting costs. This is mainly about the self-examination that institutions and hospitals carry out of their own declarations and the question of whether expenditure has been carried out efficiently and lawfully. It seems to me that, despite the fact that we all find and want money intended for care to be spent as much as possible on care activities, we also want to know whether money is just being spent according to the rules. In this respect, it is more about the fees of the auditors and the question of why they have been raised than whether you are investigating whether the money is not in your own pocket and whether it is being spent according to the rules. At the end of page 2 of the letter, the Minister does write: "Due to the decentralisation of tasks to municipalities, institutions providing services under the Wmo 2015 and the Youth Act have received more clients, each of whom is entitled to make their own demands during the contract. This falls within the policy freedom of municipalities." Well, about that text pad, I do have one more question. We discussed the new Wmo, Wlz and Youth Act in 2014. In the debate that comes under the law, we have all indicated that we actually want the administrative burden to be reduced. If the Minister writes here that it falls within the scope of the law's freedom of policy, then I have some difficulty with that. Articles 8.1, 8.2 and 8.3 of the WMO state that it really must be reduced, and hope and expectation are expressed. I therefore believe that we should take note of the fact that the administrative burden and accountability do not seem to fall. It should not be easy for us to say that it falls within the policy freedom of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u27	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now turn to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Needless to say, we talked about it last week, we talked about it during the budgetary procedure, and I think we will talk about it very often, because it is a multi-headed monster. We need to lower the control pressure. The increase in administrative costs resulting from the analysis is significant. But I think it is a good thing to stand still again, because last week, of course, we also had a debate on the causes. As far as D66 is concerned, this does not include blaming the auditors, but we need to look at the real causes. Mr. Chairman. When we look at the decentralisations, we see, of course, that the municipalities and the healthcare providers are dealing with multiple parties. Here's what we're wondering. Of course, the decentralisations took place in 2015, but in 2016 we see a significant increase in these costs. I'd like an explanation for that. We were very pleased that the Minister indicated that when it comes to i-Social Domain, the programme to standardize everything, legislation would come to the Chamber to really settle this. Can the Minister indicate when this legislation will come to the Chamber and what the state of play is? Mr. Chairman. A good example: horizontal supervision. Cooperation between hospitals and insurers based on trust, understanding and transparency can also reduce the administrative burden. That is actually the essence of horizontal supervision. Rijnstate is a frontrunner and is very positive about that. The first results are promising. It also leads to fewer reclaims. Can the Minister state what the latest state of affairs is when it comes to horizontal supervision? And can this also be extended to other sectors, e.g. ggz? Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of money involved in care, a lot of public money. As Mrs Agema said, it is of course important that this is spent in a good and legitimate way. Accountants contribute to this. We therefore consider it important, as I said in my introduction, to look at its source. Can the Minister say again what we can do, what concrete steps are being taken this year to tackle this administration? I spoke to a district nurse this morning and she really set such a striking example. She comes to someone's house and sees that a patient eats less and is also less able to do the preparation. She'll pass that on to the Wmo, because the meal service is covered by the Wmo. It lasts six to eight weeks and in the meantime she invents a solution based on her creativity. Of course, these are issues that we cannot resolve through scraping sessions. These are things that can be dealt with in a different way. I ask the Minister how he thinks these kinds of things, where people run into in practice, can be solved, so that professionals have the space and also have the responsibility to actually do their job. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u29	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This afternoon we are talking about accounting costs, but also in a broader sense about burden burdens in healthcare. Research shows that care workers spend on average between 30% and 40% of their time on administrative burdens. And in the ggz we have seen that this has even increased by 15% in recent times. GroenLinks, like all the other spokesmen and all the other political parties here, wants people working in healthcare to have fun in their work. They work there for people and not for the accountants or the health insurance company. Mr. Chairman. Healthcare institutions are spending more and more money on audit firms to justify themselves. We also see with the health insurance companies that the accountancy departments are getting bigger, where the purchasing departments are getting smaller and smaller, and that is not a good signal. In his letter, the Minister did mention a number of points to reduce the burden. He also pointed out to Mrs Bergkamp that the Programme for Social Domain was developed to make the financial accountability of the Wmo and the Youth Act more unambiguous. This would have positive effects on the accounting costs to be paid. Can the Minister be more specific about this? Has this worked out yet? How long has this been going on? Has it really started yet? I'd like a response to that. In addition, the Minister mentions that horizontal supervision can also reduce audit costs. Does he see a role for himself in this to promote this horizontal supervision and to bring it to the attention of the wider public? What steps are being taken, I ask him. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about accounting costs, as far as I am concerned, as an update of that burden. That load pressure is very high. This is also apparent from a recent study of two weeks ago among physicians. It turned out that these doctors lost as much as 38% of their time to administrative burdens. Only 13% of their time was spent on direct patient contact. We know that the Minister recognizes the problem of burdens. We are very happy about that, too. To reduce the burden, the project (Ont)regel de Zorg started in November. That's when the first scraping was done, and I think there's already been several sessions. My question is whether the Minister can give an interim report to the Chamber before June, so that we know what is going on, what the first results are and how he sees his role as an outboard motor in this ambition. Mr. Chairman. Finally, of course, we have already seen the initiative of Het Ruer Om, by the general practitioners, also aimed at reducing the administrative burden. My question to the Minister is whether we can learn from this. Have we seen any good examples of this initiative? Have things not gone well with Het Roer Should Om, what we now want to do better in a broader ambition with the scrapings? I'd like a reaction to that, too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now turn to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Money intended for care must, of course, be given to care as much as possible. The CDA believes that too much time and money are now being put into unnecessary administrative acts. Doctors, nurses and other caregivers need to spend much less time behind the computer and spend more time on care. I think all parties agree on that, if I have just heard from my colleagues. That doesn't mean that all administration is useless. The money in care is public money. And the Minister rightly states in his letter that it is important that this money is properly spent and properly accounted for, and that financial reporting by healthcare providers is also sound. The Minister also points out that several initiatives have already been launched to reduce audit costs, such as the development of horizontal supervision. Can the Minister explain a little more about this? In what way do health insurance companies cooperate with healthcare providers? What concrete actions have been taken? When, according to the Minister, is horizontal supervision sufficiently implemented, so that self-examination is no longer necessary? Because in 2016 the ggz did a very extensive self-examination into production registration in 2014. The accountants say that's one of the most detailed investigations in their history. There were even 49 checkpoints, or 71 when all aspects are considered. How many control points has self-research been reduced for 2015? In the meantime, for the institutions in the ggz and the specialist medical care, is the framework of standards established prior to the year of damage so that institutions know in advance what they are doing and can anticipate it? How can we also ensure that more attention is paid to efficiency in addition to legality? Mr. Chairman. Administrative burden is a multi-headed monster. Governments, inspections, insurers, institutions themselves, patient organisations, professional associations, everyone contributes to increasing bureaucracy. It is good that there are now as many parties as possible with the Minister to come up with new main lines of agreement. In this context, what opportunities does the Minister see for making agreements with all healthcare institutions, for example, to work much more with the same software packages and also to make more use of communication modules, whether mandatory or not? Then we can get rid of the separate practice that a hospital should employ several pharmacists with only the task of asking new patients what medicines they are using. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister to state what happened to the recommendations contained in the Het ruid report, which Minister Schippers showed last September.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u33	Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of colleagues have already pointed it out: we must, of course, always keep a close eye on whether care money is being properly and effectively spent. So healthcare providers have to report and account for that and an independent auditor has to check it. But all those reports and rules that are needed to do so do bother healthcare professionals when it comes to the regulatory burden. Accounting costs for healthcare institutions increased in 2016. We must also be honest and say that this is not only a trend in care but that we also see this, for example, in housing corporations, municipalities and business. I think we should be honest about looking at ourselves. We also want security and confirmation that it is all well and that the money is well spent. Let us also be aware of this in future legislation and regulations and in future incidents. Mr. Chairman. Healthcare professionals suffer from all these rules in the care and administrative burden, but also from the lack of coherence in the drafting of rules and the large quantities of forms and registrations. That time and that money cannot be spent on actual care. We have talked about this before and I think we will unfortunately also discuss this regularly in the House of Representatives. The VVD wants fewer rules and more confidence in the healthcare professionals who work hard every day to make our care even better and wants more time to be spent on people and less on paper. We are committed to this, for example by means of scraping sessions. But health insurers, regulators and so on must also take steps. These parties must also work to streamline their information requirements, both on content, format and momentum. A number of colleagues have already said this: last week there was extensive talk about removing the five-minute registrations in community care. Everyone wants that, but for accountability and audit by auditors that is difficult. It might be good to include the accountants in a number of scraping sessions. Can the Minister indicate whether that is also possible? Eventually, with all this, you can make sure that there are fewer accounting costs. Moreover, care institutions can also contribute to this by having their financial processes and systems in order, so that the accountant can rely more on the systems of the care institution and therefore have less work to do. Healthcare insurers also work together with healthcare providers in different sectors to develop horizontal supervision and this also ensures that the registration, declaration and control process is organised more efficiently and effectively. As a result, administrative burdens can also be reduced. I would like to know from the Minister what possibilities he sees for developing this horizontal supervision in healthcare responsibly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for three minutes. After that, the Minister can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u36	I see the Minister is ready to respond. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr President. This 30-member debate has been requested in response to the reports on increasing cost of accounting in healthcare. On 4 December last year, I sent you a letter on this subject. Before I go into more detail about the causes and solutions of the increase in audit costs, I am committed to putting the exact figures on the table. During the arrangement of work on 24 October last year, based on the analysis of Intrakoop, i.e. the report referred to in my letter, the conclusion was drawn that 12% of the money for care does not go to care, but to accountants. That is not the case. This is a 12% increase in the cost of auditing, i.e. an increase in the cost of auditing and not in the cost of care. It follows from the Intrakoop analysis that in 2016 an average of 0.15% of healthcare institutions' expenditure was accounting costs, where this was 0.14% a year earlier. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I do not, of course, consider it desirable that the costs of auditing should increase. That is why I am working with VWS' fellow executives on a broad approach to reducing administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mrs. Agema, the Minister has just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u39	That's right. I welcome the fact that the Minister is correcting the Chamber, but the only one who has said that is Mrs Marijnissen during the course of the work. No one else said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u40	It's a good thing you're putting that right. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u41	I didn't want to accuse anyone in one direction or another, but that 12% was going to live their own lives. 12% of the healthcare costs are really a lot of money, an amount of hundreds of millions of euros. It's still serious money, but of a different order. Mr Hijink mentioned the amounts in his contribution. I wanted to clarify in percentage terms the increase between 2015 and 2016. I talked about dealing with administrative burdens. It's a top priority for all three of us on VWS. I don't want care professionals spending much time on the paper mountain. This is at the expense of the job pleasure and of time for the patient. Moreover, that is a form of waste. This debate comes at a logical time. After all, this week is the first week of three scrapes and improvements, which will be organized in the coming months with the support of VWS by the initiators of the manifesto Het Ruer Om and the VvAA. We have discussed these scrapings in the budget before. There are seven professions, which I have all seven in a row. This varies from stomach, intestinal, liver doctors to community care, from pharmacists to general practitioners and from hospital nurses to psychiatrists. Every time, in January, February and March, a scraping session has been organized with them. The professionals participate in this, but also VWS. Those are 21 meetings, which first look at the rules that can be deleted. There will then be a debate on this and then perhaps a further deepening of the debate will take place. I hope there will be a result at the end of March. During the sessions, the profession is central. In concrete terms, what administrative burdens are most likely to affect, for example, a hospital nurse? With all parties involved, including health insurers, supervisors, industry organisations and also VWS, we want to solve these bottlenecks where it can be done right away. If these bottlenecks are a little more uncomfortable, we will make an action agenda with each other that describes who solves which bottleneck when. These sessions are scheduled for January, February and March, and I hope to send you a comprehensive programme plan in April to deal with these administrative burdens. I will also add a sector-specific approach to this, so that you can see what we are committed to in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u42	These scraping sessions are very interesting, but the question is, of course, what will happen to the ideas that come out there and whether the caregivers who participate in these talks will eventually also have the influence and control to put an end to those rules. Can the Minister explain who is going to make the final decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u43	That will have to be a common result. During the first conversations I was allowed to have with the people of the VvAA and several professional groups we talked about it when we were satisfied with the outcome of the scraping sessions. That's what we are when there are fewer rules, noticeably less, for the professionals. That must be the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u44	Well, of course, there is a great chance that proposals will roll out which the Minister will say "but this is a problem, because this will affect the system at its core," for example when it comes to controls imposed on healthcare providers or municipalities. Let me put it this way: is the Minister prepared to call into question the design of the system if it can remove large parts of the bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u45	I would prefer to answer the questions of the various speakers in a moment. I was actually making a few introductory remarks, but I can change the order of the programme. I did not intend to upset the system, but Mr Hijink had already understood that. Scrap sessions are really sessions with professionals at the table. I think the measure of things should be that the scrapings are successful if it gets noticeably better for professionals. And where that is not the case, the scrapings are not over after March. I do not think we should pretend here to be able to achieve the ideal situation in a few months. There will really need to be more energy in that. We are now having this debate, but we have already announced that we will come up with a broader programme plan in April, with more actions and a more systematic approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u46	Are the parties concerned also willing to look at their own rules? Professional associations and trade associations themselves also have a piece of legislation. Do you have a general willingness to change your own rules as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u47	The general willingness? Then I'd put on a little too big pants. However, there have been earlier scrapings and it explicitly stated that there are not only government rules, rules of a professional association or rules of a health care institution. It's about the different rules. There's no agreement that you can keep your rules to yourself and that they can't be called into question. I would like to say in advance that, for example, an annual report and an audit remain of great importance to us. So we will not really reach the rule-free zone here, but you did not expect that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u48	It would be real news if the annual accounts were abolished in this debate! I have a question about the scraping sessions. It is very good that the rules are being addressed, but sometimes it is not only the rules, but also the cooperation in our system between the municipality, the Wmo, the health insurance companies and the Wlz. I gave a concrete example: the district care and the Health Insurance Act, the meal service and the Wmo. It doesn't work, it takes a long time, and the patient falls apart. Are those subjects the Minister is taking with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u49	I'd like to put the professional first in the scraping sessions. So I don't want to present this theme, because I'm pretty sure the healthcare professional is coming up with this. Because, on the one hand, the insurer is linked to several of the actors mentioned by you and, on the other hand, because we are linked to them as a department and we play an active role, I think this chain approach is important. It is also something for a little ausdauer, because that means that sometimes we say: I am not the ruler, but he is. If the ruler isn't at the table then, we'll have to go to the ruler. I do intend to enter that in the scraping sessions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u50	The Minister says it's a good thing that this comes from practice. I spoke to a district nurse this morning, so this is from practice. But once it is established that there is a bottleneck, there is sometimes a need for perseverance from the Ministry to say: damn it, this needs to be better aligned. The neighborhood nurse has the image and overview and also knows what is good when it comes to the meal service. If we have determined what the bottleneck is, is the Minister prepared to organise the perseverance force properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u51	I still find that a difficult subject. Perseverance means breaking through someone's responsibility. I really should check on a case-by-case basis. Of course, it should not be the case that a meal service abolishes rules, which jeopardises food safety. I don't want to ridicule that, but I'm gonna have to find where perseverance is used. So I'm not ready yet, but I do think an active role can be filled in from VWS. This also means that you have to look beyond your own institution and your own regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u52	To ask for this, we see that a lot of institutions feel that they have to answer to all kinds of rules. This is often a fear because they do not have the overall picture and indeed are dealing with more and more parties, for example many municipalities and health insurance companies. It is not just about identifying which rules are superfluous, but also about changing culture. That may be much more difficult than listing the rules. What responsibility does the Minister see for himself to come to this cultural change?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u53	For example, in the case of horizontal monitoring, which I will deal with later, I think that the cultural aspects in particular play an important role. Then we're not going to define every link, every procedure and every ticking list, but we're going to define the outcome of a treatment. In the case of horizontal supervision, confidence will play a greater role. Horizontal supervision is now being experimented in a number of hospitals in the Netherlands; that is a bit of a crazy word, but a pilot is being organised. That one looks good. I intend to actively promote this horizontal supervision and blow the wind and organise a subsidy scheme for this, as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u54	That's good to hear. On the contrary, we can see that the healthcare providers who also deal with municipalities are not only hospitals, they are often involved with a lot of different parties and they no longer have the overview of the rules. It is very nice that this is already happening in hospitals, but does the Minister also want to broaden it so that the institutions working within the WMO can benefit from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u55	I would like to point out that otherwise, in response to one of the questions, I would have done so on a legislative proposal submitted to your Chamber by Mr De Jonge, precisely in order to achieve standardisation and simplification. That proposal was submitted to your Chamber at the end of last year. So the answer is yes. Mr. Chairman. I have one more comment before I answer any questions. I would like to say something more specific about the increase in accounting costs. In his analysis, Intrakoop mentions two main causes. 1. Supporting auditors in self-examination by ggz institutions and hospitals according to their own declarations. 2. Decentralisations in the care of the elderly and the ggz leading organisations to deal with more contracting parties asking for financial accountability. Each municipality can come to its own appointments again. This may increase the number of rules. In order to minimise the burden of carrying out the self-examinations in the ggz, GGZ Nederland and Zorgverzekerings Nederland have simplified the self-examination and are committed to further adaptation. This too has a beneficial effect on accounting costs. A more structural application can be found in the development of horizontal supervision which I have already mentioned. By means of national agreements between health insurers and providers on the method of control and the way in which the registration and declaration process has been designed, unlawful declarations are avoided as far as possible at the source, at the institution. Where accountability is based on horizontal supervision, there is no need to conduct self-examination. This can also be based on auditors, which is expected to lead to lower audit costs. Those were my introductory remarks. Now I would like to answer a number of questions, first of all Mr Hijink's question from the SP Group on the five-minute registration: can the Minister promise that he will abolish the five-minute registration? The five-minute registration in the neighborhood care is not mandatory. Suppliers and insurers can also make other agreements, for example on a day, a month or a week rate, and 93% of providers do. However, the five-minute registration still occurs in the daily practice of some nurses. I don't think that's desirable. I am willing to say that this can also be done in a different way. Another question from Mr Hijink is whether the Minister wants to delete rules linked to market forces. I've already told you that these scraping sessions focus on professionals in the care sector. We are going to look seriously at the bottlenecks that the healthcare professionals call them. In fact, I did not intend to say beforehand that certain rules should not belong to them, although I did say that I would continue to attach to an annual accounts audited by an accountant. Of course, I'm not ready for a system change. That's what the coalition agreement says. I also think that an alternative, i.e. a system change, will create quite new regulatory pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u56	In my own contribution, I quoted the example of the professor of psychiatry, who, in one of those scrap sessions, states that there can be thought about the deletion of rules, but that in this case the system should not be called into question when thinking about actions and products and their control. Then I wonder what would be the point of a scraping session if the essence of the discussion was not open to discussion by this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u57	Perhaps we differ on what is at the heart of the discussion. I would like people in care to have fun and keep in their work and that they can spend their time as much as possible on the patient and very little on the paper mountain. That is what I think we should do. That's what the scrapings were designed for. I am for the first time enthusiastic about the multitude of parties and people working with them. I'd like to give them some time to go through those 21 scrapings. I'll tell you how far we've come. The answer is sure we're not done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u58	I'd love to. The Minister must take this time, but the question is, of course, whether the ideas put forward by healthcare professionals in these scrapings that affect the system are taken seriously and can be taken over by the Minister. Or are these ideas, by definition, being pushed aside, because the core, the power of the health insurance company and the competition within the care sector should not be called into question? That seems pretty crucial to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u59	What I consider to be very crucial is that such an important party as the insurers also wants to put their hands into their own bosom and participate actively in scraping sessions to see which rules can be removed. That doesn't mean anything about the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u60	I would like to support Mr Hijink. I do not think we can close our eyes to the fact that we are promoting a certain funding system with the current rules. A motion from me has been adopted earlier to examine the possibility of other forms of funding, for example for community care. I would certainly like the Minister to say that he does not completely close his eyes to how those rules, according to the professionals' input, work through in the way in which we pay for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u61	I don't want to get my hopes up around here. It's not about changing the system. It's about increasing the working pleasure of the professionals. So I would also choose that as an input for scraping sessions. But when other comments are made by professionals, I don't close my eyes. I'm not gonna stop reading on page 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u62	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u63	Nor is it my aim to change the system, but I do not think we should say that such a non-debateable thing is. We need to be able to talk about that. I welcome this reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u64	Then I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u65	The Minister is happy about that too. Can the Minister make a switch from control to trust? That can't be proclaimed, but if that's the effect of scrapings... We try to get the professional more, better, more often and with more authority at the table. I would like that to be the effect of joint action from control to trust. If I have understood Mrs Agema correctly, she has indicated that the reduction of administrative burdens does not fall within the policy freedom of municipalities. I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled last autumn for the WMO and the Youth Act in order to lay down more detailed rules on the implementation costs, i.e. the reduction of implementation costs. These detailed rules concern standardisation and accountability of providers and municipalities. I think that's a step forward. It is not the intention to shift responsibility to the municipalities, but the municipalities also have a role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u66	That was exactly my point in the direction of the Minister. I found it a little weak to say in the letter that this regulatory pressure is really the freedom of the municipalities, while we have system responsibility here in this house and the Minister lays down further rules from here. That is why I made that comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u67	Sure. Actually, I think I can agree with that. Now to the questions of the D66 Group. What is the latest state of play on horizontal surveillance? I've said it for a short time. Five hospitals have now taken responsibility on the basis of horizontal supervision. The objective is that 80% of hospitals will be left to horizontal supervision by 2020. To stimulate that process, there is an incentive arrangement. It's not from VWS. It is a transitional arrangement agreed by health insurers and providers themselves in order to strengthen that horizontal supervision. In 2020, 80% of hospitals will be dealing with horizontal supervision, which I would welcome, not only on their own, but also in relation to the reduction of burden burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u68	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister prepared to try out horizontal supervision in other sectors, such as in the ggz, the social domain, the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u69	For the ggz there is now another way: the self-examination. That self-examination is also a process of that sector. It'll work. Actually, I think it's okay to pursue that. I can imagine that, at the stage after self-examination, we are going to look at this more horizontal supervision. I am also willing to promote that. This is specific to these two sectors; for other sectors I do not know that very well. I'm always willing to promote that. I'm also going to organise a conference on that subject. I can very well invite other parties to this. But it starts for me now at the hospitals, and for the ggz institutions it might be a beckoning perspective. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp also asked when this legislation on the social domain would come. I refer to the remark I made earlier: that is the change in the law that my colleague De Jonge has already sent to the Chamber at the end of 2017. Mrs Bergkamp also asked how the minister ensures that professionals get space and responsibility to do their job. I give quite a lot of credit for the process of scraping; I think that the professionals themselves have an important role to play there. So I want to see, in a practical sense, what professionals can do at the table to reduce administrative burden and to gain ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u70	I was just setting an example. There is a national consultation with municipalities, health insurance companies and also with VWS, the Jongerius consultation, in which casuistics are discussed. From that consultation, the agreement was reached that if the district nurse comes with an indication, the municipality will take it over, for example when it comes to food. Is the Minister prepared to re-emphasise that Jongerius is a bit of a technical term, so that we also put into practice the solutions that are found with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u71	I must say that I do not know the Jongerius meeting, but I am willing to look into it and see at which table the results of that consultation are best served.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mrs Bergkamp asked what steps the Minister is taking this year to reduce the administrative burden. I have said that we intend to have a 'we', that is to say, the executives of VWS; I am not speaking in pluralis majestatis 'to make an action plan that will come to your Chamber in April of this year. Why in April? Because I would also like to take the results of the scrapings. This action plan will include a number of lines of action. One of them will undoubtedly be to continue with the scrapings, in whatever form. In addition, we also offer more space for experiments. Then it is a question of not taking account of all kinds of actions, but of the results of those actions. Mr. Chairman. In that action plan, I would also like to focus on a few more longer-term solutions. Now there are often registrations per institution, of wishes and needs from the inspection, the NZa, the municipality and other parties. I'm just gonna stick with the government for a little while. These parties all have their own framework conditions. I think it's an idea to see how we can make more of a registration from one source. Well, in this case, that's the hospital. This makes one registration from which the various authorities can draw. This is going to be a bit of an ICT-like approach. ICT plays an important role in this, so it is not easy. That's why it's about the longer term. I'd like to take some space for that, because I think this might help. Mr. Chairman. I also want to think of something that allows healthcare providers to look together in the kitchen. There are already many good initiatives. I just mentioned all those hospitals working on horizontal surveillance. I'm glad. But maybe I can get something more, rent a van to get the healthcare providers to look together in the kitchen. These are a number of examples that I would like to give a place in the action plan. Mr. Chairman. Then to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks' question: does the activities in the i-Social Domain already lead to lower accounting costs? Are there any results? Mr President, an audit protocol has been developed by the i-Social Domain programme. This will be used by many municipalities and providers for their responsibility. The results, other than "I can't tell you this yet" are that it's being used, it's not a dead letter, but I'll owe you the results. Mrs Ellemeet has asked another question about results, namely how the initial results of the scraping sessions are going. I think I answered that. I asked the people of Het Roer for: can you come and have a cup of coffee in the first week of March, just taste the atmosphere of how that goes in those sessions where we need to give a boost. Then I also know the role as an outboard motor. It's your word, but I suppose I used it once, too, and then I can also see where to push it. With the active input of VWS I also feel free to give that push.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u74	Are these all the questions from Mrs Ellemeet, I mean? Otherwise, I suggest that you answer all of Mrs Ellemeet's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mrs Ellemeet has asked what steps are being taken to bring horizontal monitoring to the attention of the public, but I think I have already mentioned this in the answers. And if we can learn lessons from the Rudder Must To. Mr President, as far as I have been able to learn lessons, I think that these scrapings are the best proof of the success of Het Ruer Om.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yes, it is certainly a success, but not only a success, because we also hear from the general practitioners that there are still high administrative burdens, so in that sense too we can learn from the approach of Het Ruer Because it has not been successful in every way. So I would also like to ask the Minister: ask not only about the success stories, but also where it has not yet been successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u77	I totally agree. That's what I hear. There are sessions... The easy-to-get result is achieved, but there are also tough topics, so we should not pretend to be finished. This is really gonna ask us to do this ausdauer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u78	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, the question about the Social Domain. The Minister states: we've just started, it's more than just a paper letter. When can he inform the Chamber about the initial progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u80	I will let you know in writing, but I would also like to inform you of that progress. I shall now turn to the questions put by Mrs van den Berg from the CDA Group. What happened to the number of checkpoints in the self-examination of the ggz? In the direction of Mrs van den Berg, I would like to say that the number of checkpoints has been halved. That is, to put it mildly, a positive development: there are fewer of these control points because they have been simplified. Then Mrs Van den Berg also asked how more attention can be paid to efficiency. Appropriate use is phased into horizontal monitoring from 2020, i.e. in a large number of hospital institutions. Appropriate use is: care is provided to patients who really need that care, and two: that care complies with the state of science and practice. So that is addressed in a practical sense. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg's third and final question was: are the standards frameworks ggz sufficiently sharp before the year? If you could measure that or submit the annual accounts in good time, I do believe that the standards frameworks ggz are now sufficiently sharp. The annual accounts are generally delivered on time in the ggz. Mr. Chairman. In the speech by Mrs De Vries of the VVD Group...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mrs Van den Berg had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I had also asked a question about the recommendations made in Het Roer Om because the observation was that a lot of general practitioners say: I actually do not notice any of the changes yet. What else can the Minister do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u83	I thought I had already answered this question in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet. It's not easy to finish at this point. I think we should keep this with us. I said earlier that, although easy solutions have been achieved, we still have a long, tough task. So the GP who says there's so little left to notice has been invited for scraping sessions to participate actively. Moreover, I understand that not all general practitioners can participate. I do want them to experience significantly less rules when we're a while away. So we're not mucking away what hasn't worked out yet. Let that be my part in those scraping sessions. Mrs De Vries of the VVD Group has asked what I am going to do to encourage the development of horizontal surveillance. I have spoken earlier about the ambition that 80% of hospitals went over this horizontal supervision in 2020 and that I also want to organise a national congress on legitimate care in this area. That conference will take place in April and at that conference we will also pay attention to the development of this horizontal monitoring, in the sense of desirable development. I have also said before that an incentive arrangement has been agreed. That's not so much a government thing, it's a hospital thing, it's a insurance thing. I can actively promote the existence of that arrangement. Furthermore, the question has been asked, and I think that is a creative question, whether I would like to invite accountants to the scraping sessions. Honestly, I wouldn't have thought of that because I assumed you'd put the professional at the centre of those scraping sessions. But if there are any questions about accounting rules, about possible improvements and about not understanding it, then I suggest that we organize something special for that. I am not sure whether putting an accountant at a table of healthcare professionals in the interim will lead us to the same conversation. Let me agree that at the end of these scrapings, so when we have gained the experience of January, February and March, I invite the accountants to a useful form with people taking part in those scrapings and, if necessary, at my table. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered the various questions put by the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you. I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. Mr Hijink certainly does. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u85	Thank you, Mr President. As this debate has shown, it is difficult for this Minister to admit that a large part of the bureaucracy we are talking about comes from the system of market forces as we have set it up. The SP is very curious about the scrapings as they are now being carried out and what comes out of it, but there are now concerns about whether what caregivers propose is actually going to get off the ground. That is why I would like to put forward the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health labels and certification do not say much about the true quality of care;]] [[noting that obtaining and maintaining a health mark or certificate costs money and creates bureaucracy;]] [[noting that this means that money intended for care is not spent on care;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the health labels and certification and then, at the organised scraping sessions, to have care professionals determine which labels are not relevant and subsequently to delete those labels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29515-421]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yes, sorry, chairman, I always have to check the menu to see what the assessment framework looks like. Mr. Chairman. In my speech I wanted to stress that the professional is at the forefront of these scraping sessions. It's about the professional's input. I would like to hear from the practice where there are too many rules, where they come from, and who's the move so that there are noticeably fewer rules. I do not think that this should include an inventory of labels and certification and that we should add all kinds of new things to the scraping sessions. As far as I am concerned, this does not bear on the character of the scraping sessions. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-31-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this 30-member debate. We shall vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
