ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Ombudsman in Amsterdam spent one night on the Leidsegracht. He did that because he had done research there in 2016 and then it was a mess. This time he finds 938 violations. This is once every 30 seconds an uninsured taxi, a moped running against one-way traffic, an illegal street party of catering companies and so on. The numbers don't lie. For example, 190 taxis drive around Amsterdam uninsured. He just gets the list printed out by the DMV. But perhaps the most striking outcome of the investigation is about the Tax Administration. The Ombudsman was told by the tax director when he asked about checks on undeclared work and illegal sales: "That hardly happens. The tax inspectors do not run around with bulletproof vests." If azzp'er pays the VAT a few days late, a substantial fine will follow. Maintaining the computer behind a desk. But apparently not in difficult places where it is really necessary. That's why my questions. 1. How many checks on undeclared work and illegal sales have taken place on the Leidsegracht and surroundings in the past year, and were police and FIOD present at these checks? 2. Does your inspection check that of SZW.... on the working conditions there? 3. Are there areas in the Netherlands where the Tax Administration is afraid to come? We remember very well Finchstroke. If those areas are there, where are they? 4. Has the government consulted with the Amsterdam Ombudsman and what has come out of this? 5. That list of uninsured taxis, can I assume those 190 people were signed? And if they don't pay insurance, you can probably check their tax records too, because they may not or may not be accurate more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Besides Minister of Finance and Social Affairs, I am also Secretary of State for Finance today. The Secretary of State is also a member of the Eurogroup in Brussels. I have indeed read the article of the Amsterdam Ombudsman. In that article, an anonymous quote from an unknown director of the Tax Administration, who would have told the Amsterdam Ombudsman that the Tax Administration only wants to enter certain companies, pubs with helmets and bulletproof vests. This would suggest that there is no control. The Tax Administration does not experience any obstacles in carrying out its enforcement task in the municipality of Amsterdam. This applies in general, but also specifically in the city centre of Amsterdam. He does not, therefore, recognise himself in the ruling of the Amsterdam Ombudsman either, because in addition to carrying out book investigations, for example, bailiffs carry out their work in the event of the recovery of tax debts. Through the National Information and Expertise Centre, the LIEC, and the Regional Information and Expertise Centres, the RIEC's, there is good cooperation between municipalities, the police and the Tax Administration. There are good agreements on who has what tasks and also on when the police are involved in joint actions by the Tax Administration and the police. There are also regular actions in the city centre of Amsterdam. The statements of the municipal Ombudsman are therefore not recognised by the Tax Administration. Question No 4, by Mr Omtzigt: Has the Tax Office been in contact with the Ombudsman? That has not yet been done, but I would like to say to you that this is going to happen in order to verify these findings and to find out where they come from. The other comments on the uninsured taxis will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Tax Office does not experience any obstacles, while the Ombudsperson of the capital says: boys, something is going very wrong. In fact, footnote 11 of the report was the most entertaining: Koninklijke Horeca Nederland, Amsterdam department, wants more controls. Why don't you let that work on you? Where have you seen that before? You can't see that anywhere. They want checks from the Tax Office because a number of cases do not comply with anything at all. If a professional group itself asks for controls, and certainly the catering industry is sorry that I discriminate a little bit about this sector, then something is going on. Book surveys and bailiff visits take place between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. But the whole investigation was about the mess it's there at night. So you can work in the dark at night. You can give up your turnover at night cheerfully, because these checks don't find that. I would therefore like to have answers to each of these five questions, in writing, and then to be able to talk about them. Indeed, I hope that those answers include at least the promise that those 190 uninsured taxis have already been signed and fined. If that low-hanging fruit is not picked, then I really do not know which controls are still being carried out in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. I understand Mr Omtzigt's reaction. On Question 1, how many checks have been carried out, I simply cannot give an answer at the moment. Mr Omtzig understands that too. I will pass on this question to the Secretary of State for Finance so that he can be answered in writing. The same applies to the question about the 190 uninsured taxis driving around. More information will also be sent in writing to Mr Omtzigt and the Chamber. The signal is clear, I say to Mr Omtzigt. As regards the Ombudsman in Amsterdam, I have already indicated in the first answer that it is wise for the State Secretary to contact the Ombudsman or have him contact him in order to pick up these signals. When it comes to the areas, I have one additional answer for Mr Omtzigt. In addition to the multidisciplinary approach, as it is called, with regard to the levy, control and collection, the Tax Administration also cooperates with the police and municipalities, including in Amsterdam, on the basis of its own powers, in the context of tackling the undermining crime through the LIEC and the RIEC. That's what I said in the first answer. There's a detention bottleneck Malafide Horeca. This is a separate issue for these enforcement agencies. On the basis of the comprehensive information position, it is then assessed whether interventions are necessary. That could be a regular book search, but it could be a raid. This kind of enforcement point is therefore combined with, for example, the police. This is therefore an ongoing process, entitled "malafide catering," which also indicates that this is a focus for enforcement services and inspections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	I understand that we do not get full answers, but I really do want to know in writing whether there are no-go areas in the Netherlands, in Amsterdam or elsewhere, where tax officials and other enforcers only want to come under police protection with great difficulty. If there are, I want a list of what's being done about it. Nothing is more undermining for the tax morale of the ordinary Dutchman who gets his salary at the end of the month and immediately pays his tax or simply fills out his tax form. For the rest, I hope that I can see the answers within about two weeks, so that we can talk about it. Yeah, I know my pappenheimers here, or I'll wait another six months. This was a follow-up investigation and it's been a mess there for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	Now, as it were, written questions are submitted orally. I'll send these signals to the Secretary of State for Finance. In general, what has been said about these no-go areas is not recognized by the Tax Administration. Some interventions do indeed involve the help of the police, precisely to raise together, because there is a risk of danger. But that doesn't mean they're no-goareas. But again, I will pass this question on to the Secretary of State for Finance, requesting that they be answered within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	I know Mr Omtzigt. If those answers haven't reached the Chamber in two weeks, I know he's there for the settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr President, I also know Mr Omtzig very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	I would like to ask the committee to take stock of the written questions in advance, because I also have a number of them. I think it would be wise to take stock of these questions. We read this kind of message in the newspaper and what is described in it is, of course, unacceptable for all those people who pay their taxes properly in time. Mr Omtzigt has already indicated this. Places where fraud occurs are often the most unsafe. Does the Minister agree that abandoning controls on such occasions could lead to a breeding ground for precisely that kind of activity? I come to my second point. I just heard the minister say something in his answer about crooked catering and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	No, Mrs. Lodders. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	...that there would be bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	In the first instance, I think it would be wise if you took stock of all the written questions in the committee and then sent them to the Secretary of State, because then we could give a much more detailed answer. In general, however, I agree with Mrs Lodder's text: if you refrain from controls, this will lead to a concentration of crime. I think that's true in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	What is being discussed in committee is really up to the committee. It's up to the committee to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	You're in charge of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u18	Tax collection and security are two key tasks of the government. They touch each other here in a very worrying report by the Ombudsman. But it's put away a little bit by the Tax Administration as: we don't recognize this. We do not recognise it either, says the Minister. But the Ombudsman of the capital says: there are restaurants where the Tax Office does not come, because they are not sure of their lives there. What's going on here? I would say: go out with the Ombudsman in the hours of the night and see if the image of the Tax Office is still recognizable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u19	I understand Mrs Leijten's question. At the same time, I checked with the IRS what's true of this. The Tax Administration indicates to the Secretary of State and to me that this image is recognized and that there are indeed interventions and actions taking place, including in the city centre of Amsterdam, where the Tax Administration is working with the police to enforce. At the same time, I can see that it is an image that is contrary to what the Amsterdam Ombudsman indicates in the article. That is why I have just pointed out to Mr Omtzigt that I think it is very sensible for the Secretary of State to contact the Amsterdam Ombudsman to verify this claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u20	The point of the Amsterdam Ombudsman is that the Tax Administration is afraid of bullets. I can imagine. You have the Holleeder process now. You should pick up a tax return from Holleeder as a tax officer. So I understand that tax officials are scared. It should be the other way around: the bullets should be afraid of the IRS. The question really is what this cabinet is doing about the major crime that we know from the underworld, for example drug trafficking and trafficking in women, in order to provide adequate protection for tax officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u21	What I have tried to indicate in my answers to Mr Omtzigt's first questions is that the Tax Administration is pointing me in the direction of not recognizing itself in the image of no-goareas or in the image that they do not maintain where it is necessary because there are unsafe situations. It is precisely with the police, together with the protection, that we are building up to ensure that enforcement is also possible. At the same time, I note that there are two signs. There is also the signal given by the Amsterdam Ombudsman. I think it is very sensible that the Secretary of State and the Tax Administration should talk to him to see if the image is recognized, where this image comes from and how we can prevent it. In general, I agree with Mr Nijboer, of course, but these two signals are at odds. It seems very sensible to me that this should be clarified, also in response to the written questions put by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u22	Can it be clear in how many cases the police actually have to come along, not only to the Walls but also to the other restaurants, so that we know when the Tax Office can no longer be alone? This task should not lie on the shoulders of the police if the organisations are so barren and angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u23	I will add this question to the written set that comes towards your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u24	I would also like to mention that Amsterdam is also a beautiful city.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u25	If Rotterdammer... uh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
