ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, the people in the public gallery and in particular the Prime Minister in trade union K. The next item is the general affairs budget, document 35000-III and the King's budget, document 35000-I.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to Mr Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I kissed you just out of sight of the cameras. There's enough talk about us as it is! But congratulations, it's your birthday, how beautiful. We were there early as the Committee on Home Affairs, we wanted to hang up slings, but we didn't, we also wanted to sing Lang she will live, but Mr Van der Staaij only sings on whole notes. Congratulations, I am sure I will speak on behalf of all the participants in this debate if I wish you many more healthy years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	And your birthday, Chairman, only contributes to the annual party we're allowed to have here, because this is always a nice debate. I always enjoy it, everything comes along: history, intelligence and so on. My contribution to this will be no exception. The first thing I want to talk about is General Affairs, because that is what we are talking about today. It is responsible for monitoring the CTIVD. That committee is crucial for us as a Lower House. After all, the secret service is secret and we Members of Parliament cannot actually carry out our constitutional tasks in this area, namely the control of the government. Something's been found on that: the CTIVD. That is a group of professionals who, on behalf of the People's Party, are monitoring the secret service. Those people can just walk into the building of the AIVD, they have their own pass and they do it great. Last week we had a debate with the Minister of the Interior about withholding a CTIVD report on the referendum we had at the time on the secret services. That report was kept under review and the CTIVD said around that referendum that there are insufficient guarantees regarding the transfer of data to foreign intelligence services. That was not very convenient for the Minister about the referendum and we did not receive that report. My group said in that debate that the Minister has a moral duty to convey this information as soon as possible. My first question is: why is the CTIVD not directly under the Lower House? Shouldn't we even arrange for it to go away from General Affairs? In any case, the relationship between Chamber and CTIVD must be completely clean and not be part of a political grievance, we must be able to trust the report of Mr Brouwer and his people blindly, there must be no noise on the line and parliamentary control must be maximum, especially when it comes to something like the secret service. Now it's still hanging too much against the cabinet. In order to avoid questioning the independent position of the CTIVD, my party therefore proposes that we make an agreement that those reports should automatically always go to the Chamber within six weeks. Does the Prime Minister think that's a good idea? Mr. Chairman. A few years ago this budget, I thought Mr Van der Staaij, asked the question when the Netherlands was actually founded. I would say at the Pacification of Ghent in 1576, because there North and South Netherlands gorded together, including Flanders and parts of Northern France, behind Willem van Oranje. That was a hopeful moment. The cradle of the Netherlands is actually in Flanders. Yet many see the Act of Abandonment from 1581 as a declaration of independence, written by us, the States-General, actually written by a Fleming, relating not only to the Netherlands, but also to Brabant, thus the current Belgian Brabant, Flanders and Mechelen. The Act of Abandonment can be welcomed in an increasing interest. Both the Second and the First Chamber recently paid attention to it. If both chambers of the States-General are united, then something really is going on. Wouldn't it be nice if we underlined this and called the date of the signing, 26 July, into a national holiday? Then we celebrate every year. The historian Rutte will undoubtedly appeal to this. A day off may not be in, unless he's in a good mood, but we'd love to hear that. But an official holiday to underline all this is the least. I come to my third point, Mr President. The Party for Freedom is a true monarchist party. We are lucky to have a king and a queen who are a symbol of our national unity and of our country and who are also a link to our history, which I was just talking about. That must remain the case. Our king and queen must be above the parties. The king is about to go on a state visit to Great Britain. The Majesty had therefore invited a number of English journalists to the palace. And what does the king say to those reporters? That he regrets the outcome of the Brexireferendum. I quote the Daily Telegraph: he knew the result had gone the other way. Excuse me? Britain has done something heroic: it has declared itself independent. Economically, the outcome of that referendum has been good for the time being. Doomsday scenarios turned out to be apekool. In the meantime, for example, Unilever opts for Britain and not for the Netherlands. The Prime Minister may have learned something from that. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago we were able to see that Princess Laurentien sought the publicity of the two Armenian children who lapped eight judgments to their boots and, after a campaign of emotional blackmail by the Dutch public service broadcaster, was allowed to remain. My question is: is it a princess's job to interfere in a political or otherwise? Public debate? And two: what does the Prime Minister think of the King's position on Brexit? Is it up to the Head of State to decide on the outcome of a referendum in another country, especially now that we have been deprived of the referendum? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mr President. This year, it's our king's anniversary year. Five years ago in the Nieuwe Kerk in Amsterdam, King Willem-Alexander was inaugurated. I don't think there's a Dutchman who forgets that footage, at least I don't, because many of us were allowed to be there at the time in Amsterdam. I didn't forget either.I looked back on that later.I saw that the whole royal family danced along with the music of Armin van Buuren. Splendor and splendor, et cetera. In the years that followed, I also saw how incredibly emotionally a visit by the king or queen can be for people and what a comfort they can offer, just because they are there. The King and the Queen identify in their person almost all of us, if I may express it expensively. I recently noticed that again, just at my home in Schiedam, where the queen visited the YETS Foundation. That is an organisation that is committed to young people from a very vulnerable environment, who simply need support. They are activated through sports et cetera to really make their lives. There the queen appears, and when you see and also read back in the newspaper what it does to the people and whatever it does to the counselors: that is huge. To be honest, I have said almost everything I want to say and can say in a budget debate like today. 'Cause what we're actually discussing right now is the Prime Minister's financial proposal on logistics, that's what I call it, from our royal family. I have one specific question on this in a moment, but in my view I say: that looks neat, it is transparent. Above all, it finances a system of which I see for myself how valuable it is for our country, and as far as I am concerned, it remains. I do have a question about Crown Domain Het Loo. Several questions have already been asked. The intention is that the budget should make very transparent what other expenditure on kingship is at stake: expenditure on countries on the balance sheet of another ministry. In a footnote in the annex to the budget, however, there is a reference to a subsidy received for the crown domain. There is also an explanation as to why it is a footnote and not a full passage, but I would like to challenge the Prime Minister to explain to me exactly what the difference is, especially since the Royal House refers to this subsidy on its own website. Mr President, I will conclude with the designated survivor. I would like to make a comment on this. Last year, D66 planted that idea. The Prime Minister took a serious look at this and sent us an extensive letter on it. Then we asked a few questions about it, and that is what my follow-up question is about, because frankly, from the answers I have received, I cannot quite determine whether this will be the standard procedure, in the sense that a member of the government will be placed in a separate room if there is a reason. By the way, and I really conclude with that, the Prime Minister is suggesting to me that the Chamber itself should think: well, do you not want to make a provision of your own? I think, Mr President, it would be wise for the Bureau to consider how this should be done. With that, Mr President, I am at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	An interesting speech by Mr Van Oosten. I am particularly interested in the answers immediately about Kroondomain Het Loo. Mr Van Oosten says that there is still some uncertainty about the subsidy. I take it he's talking about the opening-up grant of nearly 8 tonnes. It's meant to keep Crown Domain Het Loo open. Does Mr Van Oosten agree that this subsidy should actually be paid if the Crown Domain Het Loo is open for 12 months a year as a condition and not eight and a half months a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	I read a letter on this from the Minister for Agriculture. Perhaps it was also discussed in debates with the Minister for Agriculture, but I was not there. But I do understand her explanation. It is explained by her that, in the context of sustainable nature management and so on, it is wise not to open the park all year round but most of the year. I do not really have much to add to that and I do not disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	Then let me ask you a different question. It's an open-ended grant, not a partial opening grant. Does Mr Van Oosten agree with me that there should be more clarity about it anyway? He has just asked questions to the Prime Minister, so I assume that the answer is yes, but does he not agree with me that an open subsidy should apply to full opening?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u11	If something is an opening subsidy, it's meant to keep a park open. Then it may be good that, if you want to keep it open, you have to close it for a period in the year because there is a need for nature management. That could be anything. That is also explained in the Minister's letter. By the way, when it comes to the situation where there can also be hunted, I understand that from the answers given by the Prime Minister, it seems to me, quite frankly, that it is also dangerous to walk around the park at that time. I wouldn't advise anyone. For that reason alone, I understand that it is said: well, then you can't keep it open all year round either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u12	To continue with this subsidy scheme: it is intended for the whole year and now the crown domain is closed to the public for three months. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u13	I think I just answered that question. It's a grant that makes it open. But if you want to open it up, I understand from the Minister of Agriculture, then you also have sustainable nature management to do. This is designed in all kinds of ways and that means that you should close the park for a short period of time in the year to the public. Then there are a lot of months left, in the most beautiful time of the year as far as I am concerned, when the sun shines nicely, to be able to walk around there. Perhaps we could do that together sometime to see what it actually looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u14	I always like walking with you. But let's get to the point. If we grant subsidies to museums and other institutions, it will apply for the whole year. Here's really an exception. That three-month period is really very long. I understand you're saying there should be some maintenance, of course. But three months are way too long because it is also a public property and the public will also have to be able to use it all year round.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u15	I think I've made myself clear. I explain the grant in such a way that it leads to an opening-up and it does. I am not going to discuss with Mrs Özütok whether three months can also be two and a half months. I also simply pretend not to understand what is the best way to shape sustainable nature management. We have a Minister of Agriculture for that. I think she has written a clear letter about this. To be honest, I have nothing to add to that, nor do I have anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u16	I'd like to go for a walk. My question concerns the passage in the letter which states that there is no real basis for the cabinet to exercise influence, whereas the King's budget is 7 tonnes and money is also made available for it in the budget of LNV. Mr Van Oosten rightly pointed that out. Doesn't he think that it's also a decision that there's ground to influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u17	At least I think you should tell me what the money is being spent on. That is also the case, because for that we have the budget, which is also attached to it, which shows what other expenditure is related to kingship. In the case of that opening subsidy, this is only written in a footnote. I would say that it is perhaps meritorious to give some more explanation, all the more so because it relates to the crown domain and the single word "crowd domain" suggests that it does have a relationship with the King. But, strictly speaking, that is not the case, for the King, I believe, has its economic property, as is explained in the questions that have been asked and the answers that have been given. You and I can also have economic ownership of a piece of land and possibly qualify for a subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u18	I can follow all this, but it was just not my question. My question was about the subsidy granted by the Ministry of LNV, which is also subject to grant conditions. The Minister writes that we cannot exert influence, but, according to Mr Van Oosten, does that not provide a basis for exerting influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u19	I understand that this subsidy is intended to open up such a park, but in such a way that good nature management can also take place. We just talked about that. I believe that this is exactly what is being done, at least I have no reason to question it, because you can visit it and there must indeed be nature management. During that nature management, during the months in which that takes place, visitors would not be possible and perhaps even dangerous. I can agree with that. You may not, but then we won't find each other at that point, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u20	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u21	I'll say something about that in my term. But I understand Mr van Oosten in such a way that the granting of subsidies is indeed a basis for making conditions, but that he is satisfied with the way in which that has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u22	Granting can always be the basis for conditions, because the government then gives tax money to something or someone and can, of course, impose conditions. But I do not pretend to understand the precise conditions and so on under which this subsidy was granted. I am just saying that, given that it is now mentioned only in a footnote, it would perhaps be worthwhile to appreciate that a little more. I would like to draw attention to that question and at least I would ask the Prime Minister to reflect on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking to the Prime Minister about his own budgets. First of all, I would like to consider the information position of Parliament. Unfortunately, my group has to note that this is a recurring issue, when we should not be discussing it at all. The information position of the Lower House should simply be good. Does the Prime Minister share this point of departure? In practice, our information position leaves a lot to be desired. Parliamentary questions are not answered or hardly adequately, media are given information earlier, which means that MPs have to respond mainly to media messages and important information is not shared with the Chamber. This lack of information to the Chamber hinders the work of the Chamber and thus the proper functioning of democracy. I made a round of rounds with my groupmates. They indicated, one by one, that they were faced with situations where they were not properly or late informed. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this can no longer continue and the cabinet must not only promise that it will be better, but also show that it fully implements Article 68 of the Constitution and informs the Chamber as it should. I would like an extensive response from the Prime Minister on this point. How does he feel about it? What is he doing as President of the Cabinet to improve this situation? Mr. Chairman. Then the king's budget. You are undoubtedly all aware of the position of GroenLinks that the Head of State should be elected in the long term. But as long as the current state system is in place, we need to maintain it as well as possible. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we also have a modern royal house, which, like all Dutch people, also pays property tax. A modern royal house also means that the palaces, like the other buildings in the Netherlands, are sustainable and greening and that the use of the government plane is being handled critically. The king himself indicated this summer that he would like solar panels at his future home, where a major renovation is now taking place. However, this appears to be much more difficult than thought due to obstructive regulation. GroenLinks supports the king in that wish. He wants, as it were, to use the right of initiative of tenants. In his search for sustainability, we believe that the State as the king's landlord can do more in this area. After all, if the king's house lasts, it is a good example for many other people. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he also believes that it would be good if the palaces were preserved. Does he support the king in his desire to have solar panels installed on Huis ten Bosch and is he willing to make an active commitment to this? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point where the king does not set a good example as far as GroenLinks is concerned, namely the royal hunt for Crown Domain Het Loo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u25	Before you continue, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u26	I hear GroenLinks pleading that because the king is talking about solar panels, the rules can get out of the way. I wouldn't necessarily favour the king in that regard. But on monuments, solar panels can be laid down, provided you can't see them from the street. So I wonder what kind of problem GroenLinks wants to solve for the king.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u27	The king himself has indicated that he runs into the complicated regulations, so that no solar panels can be installed. I don't favor the king. Then you've really misunderstood. You know that GroenLinks wants to make all homes in the Netherlands more sustainable. The same goes for the king's palace. In that sense, we do not favour him. He's also part of society. So if he has a desire to make his palace more sustainable, then this is the right time to make that possible as a renovation is taking place right now. Hence my request to the Prime Minister to see what this complexity is and to resolve it, so that this can be taken into account during this renovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u28	I was aware of the renovation. I'm just gonna scratch my head off to make more extra costs for that. Don't you agree with me that we have monuments to protect, too? Not every building, not every monumental building lends itself to putting a whole bucket of solar panels on it. Given the ground and the like, I really think there are a lot of places where the king should still do the necessary. I just find it odd that when the king raises his finger, you stand here, when we all know that these palaces do not lend themselves one-two-three to perfect sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u29	Then you have missed a development in sustainability; with all due respect. A change is already taking place in Amsterdam. Monumental canal houses are adapted. There, sustainability and solar panels are possible. Technically, there really is a lot possible. Where there's a will, there's a way. We need to get into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u30	Mrs Özütok's point was raised last month with the Minister of Heritage. It has promised to look at how cultural heritage can be preserved and to draw up guidelines for it. Now Mrs Özütok comes back to that. Is it not satisfied with this commitment or does it have very concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u31	That remains a question for me. I'd like a gear. Hence my question to the Prime Minister, because he deals with the Royal House, to do something about it. The king has publicly expressed his wishes on this matter. I think there are some barriers there. Which ones exactly I don't know. Well-being and other rules are not cast into concrete. If we want to make the Netherlands more sustainable, I hope to find you by my side. Then this must be easy to solve. Hence my question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u32	Oh, yeah. This was also a commitment to my group colleague, because we think this is an important point. My question, which Mr Van der Molen also asked, is whether we should make an exception for the King. Or should we just make sure that there are clear guidelines here so that we can make monuments more sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u33	That's why I'm saying rules haven't been poured into concrete. This should be made possible. So there's got to be room for that. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the specific bottleneck is and what he thinks about accelerating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u34	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u35	GroenLinks supports the king, who, as it were, wants to use his right of initiative. After all, if the king's house lasts, it is a good example for many other people, including on the international level. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he agrees that it would be good if the palaces were preserved, starting with House ten Bosch. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point where the king, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, does not set a good example; I actually would have stayed there. The Crown Domain is closed to the public for more than three months a year, because fauna management is carried out. That is strange, however, because there are many other natural areas that are not completely closed down because of fauna management. It seems as if there are other reasons why the crown domain is completely closed. Earlier this year, the Chamber adopted a motion by colleague Van Kooten-Arissen to open the crown domain to the public throughout the year. However, Minister Schouten says that he cannot carry out this motion and refers to Article 41 of the Constitution and to the Prime Minister for the purpose of the usufruct agreement, "Yes," that is to say, "in which the economic fruits are reserved to the Crown Carrier." However, a separate grant is obtained for the management of fauna. Then it would also make sense for us to hear exactly what happens to that money. GroenLinks considers this unsatisfactory and I therefore ask a number of questions about this. What exactly is happening on the crown domain why the site should be closed to the public for three months if necessary? How does the Prime Minister indicate that the Chamber has a clear wish, but that the motion is not being carried out? Does the Prime Minister still think this agreement is at this time? Is he prepared to consider whether the agreement can be amended so that the crown domain can be opened around the year? How does the Prime Minister's criticism of the General Court indicate that the consideration given by the Prime Minister to whether expenditure by the Royal House affects the public interest is not transparent enough to allow proper control to be exercised? Mr. Chairman. A few other things which are important to my group, first of all transparency of the interventions of the members of the cabinet. Good steps have been taken in recent years with regard to the public agendas of directors. However, there are still directors who, if we have to believe their agendas, have very few external actions, while they do tweet about meetings that are not on their agendas. Can the Prime Minister promise that he will draw attention to this again in the cabinet? In addition, there is often a great deal of uncertainty about the lobbying contacts between directors and lobby organisations. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this can and should be more transparent. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how we can make this more transparent so that the shadowiness can be removed. Mr. Chairman. Independent supervisors operate in a wide range of areas. These supervisors often report to the Chamber through a ministry, while the ministries do not discuss the content of the reports. How does the Prime Minister view this? Can he promise that he will look into these relations in consultation with relevant directors? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State has a major role to play in the Climate Act. The Council of State will review government policy on climate every year. The Council of State has indicated its willingness to take on this role, but it does require additional capacity and knowledge of climate policy. I ask the Prime Minister if any additional resources have been provided for this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question to the Prime Minister about the #MeToo movement. Since last year, this is a topic that concerns many people in society. Yet there is nothing about that in the state budget. There are motions from the Chamber, but there is nothing in the state budget, while there is plenty of social debate about victims, perpetrators and prevention. Of course, this is a broad subject, an overarching issue that transcends specific rulers. However, I do not hear much about it from the cabinet. Perhaps that is also because it is not specifically invested in a govern ment. Can the Prime Minister indicate how the cabinet stands in this and which ruler is the first point of contact? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right within my time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mr. Chairman. As the general affairs budget gives rise to the annual functioning of the Chamber with the Prime Minister, the King's budget does not give rise to the annual functioning of the Chamber with, but with, the King's budget. A lot of questions have already been asked. Mr. Chairman. It is almost 100 years since the First World War ended and at the same time the monarchies in Germany and Austria-Hungary. A whole revolutionary movement, of which every now and then the last sputterings are to be heard here in the Chamber, spread across Europe. The socialist leader Troelstra also announced the revolution in the Netherlands. But he was wrong, because from parts of the country volunteers, including several hundred Frisians, travelled to The Hague to defend the throne. It became a massive demonstration on the Malieveld on Monday, November 18, 1918. Queen Wilhelmina and Princess Juliana were welcomed by an inebriated crowd. Now we are not here today on the Malieveld, but the CDA's appreciation for the Oranges today is no less. With trade missions such as the German Länder or the Far East, to name just a few, the king and queen opened doors that would otherwise remain closed. And with work visits, Mr Van Oosten of the VVD mentioned that even though..... the king and the queen emphasize weekly what is important for our Dutch society; whether it is SMEs................................................................................................................................. With their presence at Dam Square in Amsterdam on 4 May, the king and the queen always underline the importance of that national commemoration of the liberation of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. In 2020, it is 75 years since our country was liberated from German domination. World War II is a very important period in Dutch history; a period that has had a great impact on our culture, on our identity and on many discussions, for example on what is "good" and "fault." This has been very decisive for the development of our country. The importance of freedom is strongly at the heart of the annual celebration of 4 and 5 May, but also in many books and films, and also in the still many discussions about the Second World War. So anyone who wants to know the Netherlands must also learn about the great influence that the German and Japanese occupation has had on our lives as the Netherlands. That is why 75 years of liberation is also a very good time to strengthen that sense of shared identity. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, the Prime Minister himself should be an ambassador for that 75-year anniversary celebration by 2020. We then commemorate and celebrate a crucial part of our national history, and as far as we are concerned, this includes the Prime Minister. As far as the CDA is concerned, the cabinet can pull this a little harder. For example, additional resources should be available to allow important historical sites to be unpacked in 2020, as I call it, in order to highlight that shared history. We, as a CDA, will return to the VWS budget, which has already been allocated a budget for its celebration. But the request I would like to make here to the Prime Minister is whether he would like to take the lead on his way to 2020 in order to come up with a joint approach from the cabinet. There are many more possibilities, perhaps in other ministries, or budgets are still available to come up with a common approach. I see a lot of provinces and municipalities spending money to make 2020 a big celebration. As far as the CDA is concerned, there's still a big shovel on top of that. It would be fantastic if the Prime Minister would coordinate this a little bit and would like to inform the Chamber at a later stage on how we will proceed towards 2020 for this important commemoration. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u39	"The ship of state usually leaks from the top," said the Prime Minister, after again leaking pieces for Prince's Day this year. It's not the officials, it's the politicians: an interesting observation. But first, let me explain to the Prime Minister why this is not right. We have a parliamentary democracy. This means that this Chamber must have sufficient information to be able to control the cabinet. When ministers plan to leak to the media without us having information or without us being able to talk about it, that makes our work impossible. We also have a public debate in this country, which everyone can participate in. Anyone can say anything, provided that it is known who you are, so that people can debate each other and we can check whether what people say is true. If the ministries are leaked anonymously, no one can. I also welcome the discussion that is currently taking place among journalists as to whether media should lend itself to this kind of political games of politicians. We also have public morality. We are also an example. We also set a standard. When people in ministries think that agreements do not apply to them, many people in this country think: why do agreements apply to me? Does the Prime Minister understand why this isn't right? Back to his remark about the ship of state that usually leaks from the top. It's just a few politicians, a small handful, who've seen those pieces. If it's politicians leaking, it can easily be investigated. In the past, I have often asked the Prime Minister to investigate these abuses. Every time the Prime Minister said, "No, you can't, because there are so many people involved." Now the Prime Minister said: they are politicians. That's just a handful of people. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister to continue this investigation. If there's a leak from the chamber, there's an investigation. If the towers across the street are leaked, the prime minister should also be doing research. Mr. Chairman. Then something else. On 13 May next year it is 400 years since Johan van Oldenbarnevelt here behind us, in front of the Knight Room at the Binnenhof, has been beheaded by Maurits van Oranje, who accused him of high treason. The old teacher was sacrificed and beheaded for treason. Afterwards the body and head, the remains, are probably housed in the catacombs under the then court chapel. The court chapel has been demolished, but the cellars are still there, under the First Chamber. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It's now the shithouse of the First Chamber. Behind it, the walls are still visible. I've been told the moisture stains are also from that crypt. Beyond that lies this statesman, who was so important in the 17th century for the struggle, the Eighty Years' War against the King of Spain, and has been so important for the construction of the Republic, the predecessor of the present Netherlands. The Prime Minister is a historian, just like me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u40	Johan van Oldenbarnevelt also founded the VOC. This is what progressive circles now want to be sensitive. But I understand that Mr Van Raak nevertheless says: hip hip hooray for Johan van Oldenbarnevelt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u41	No, Johan van Oldenbarnevelt was not a socialist. Not at all. And I'm sure I'd like to name the dark ones too. He is co-founder of the VOC, the first multinational. These people still influence politics in the Netherlands, not now as VOC but as Unilever. I can assure Mr Bosma that these debates will take place in the coming months. In the basements of the Senate are still the remains of this statesman. The next of kin asked for an investigation. In two years, in 2020, a large-scale renovation of the Binnenhof will begin. The First Chamber is also being dealt with. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to see if there is any way to investigate these crypts. Look what's in there, and most of all, who's lying there. And see if we can give more credit to this statesman's remains, and give him and his family some satisfaction. I also like to walk around the Hofpond every once in a while. Then I always come across the statue of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. That was put there in 1954, I say, memorized. But that's wrong, of course. That should of course be on the spot where Johan van Oldenbarnevelt is beheaded: just before the Knights Hall. Now I understand that at the time there was an objection from the Royal House because the Queen found it difficult to ride along the statue with Prince's Day. Now, of course, I always understand the parking problems of the Oranges, but I still think it would be better to put the statue in the context of that big renovation at the place where it belongs, namely here in the Binnenhof, right in front of the Knight's Room. These are some of the plans that I am sure will burn the Prime Minister's heart as a historian. I look forward to his reaction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u42	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The Bezuidenhouter is reasonably sober. He won't bother anyone. That's the way it's supposed to be. Let these people live their lives," said the chairman of the Bezuidenhout District Council earlier this year in an interview about the royal family that comes to live with us, when House Ten Bosch is finally finished. And to underline this no-nonsensity, he added: "We, as the board of the district council, have not planned anything for that move. Isn't that what we do to other new residents?" A striking text, when I look at the style the king has shown over the past year. I think he'll fit very well in the neighborhood. Mr. Chairman. The king has shown that like many other Dutch people, he is consciously concerned with the climate. Mrs Özütok already referred to it: he expressed his disappointment at the fact that the monument status of Huis Ten Bosch stood in the way of his sustainability ambitions when he asked for solar panels for his palace. I have already referred to it: fortunately, my group from Erfgoedminister Van Engelshoven has been promised that it will look carefully at the regulations that hinder the sustainability of monuments. Until then, the king must do it with climate measures that can. All the bits help, especially for those with probably the largest example function in the Netherlands. That is why I was surprised by the King's flight for the state visit to Luxembourg earlier this year. In the case of officials of the State, they must opt for the train up to 500 kilometres or up to 6 hours by train. Can the Minister explain what framework of consideration applies to the travel of the Royal House? Why was the small 400 kilometres to Luxembourg not travelled by train? And I hope that the trip to the United Kingdom from later this month will go by Eurostar. Surely it would be a shame to leave that beautiful royal waiting room at The Hague Hollands Spoor unused? Mr. Chairman. Earlier this year, a motion was passed, and reference has already been made to it, asking for Kroondomain Het Loo to be opened to the public year round. As far as I am concerned, that is an understandable request, because the estate donated by Queen Wilhelmina to the Dutch is beautiful. Unfortunately, the cabinet informed the Chamber at the beginning of September that it would not be carrying out the motion. This autumn, too, the crown domain remains closed. So no movement is being made, and I find that disappointing. I therefore have a question about the justification. According to Article 41 of the Constitution itself, the Royal House would be about opening up or not opening up to the public, so the cabinet implies. I quote the letter: 'In this context, there is no ground to be exercised by the cabinet'. But in the King's budget we are discussing today, a budget of over €700,000 per year for equipment and personnel for the purpose of wildlife management has been included. In addition, the Kroonbrugger receives €800,000 grant for management and equipment. My question to the Prime Minister is: is the relationship between payment on the one hand and determining on the other, according to him, in balance? As far as I am concerned, there is even more balance to be sought. I go from Article 41 to Article 42 of the Constitution. The King is inviolable, the ministers are responsible. Since 1848, the cabinet has been accountable to the parliament for doing and saying the King and other members of the Royal House. That ministerial responsibility is an important pillar of our constitutional monarchy and parliamentary democracy. And even after 170 years, this still creates a dynamic tension between the freedom of expression of members of the Royal House and the fulfilment of that ministerial responsibility. We recently received a number of examples of this. Princess Laurentien spoke out on the radio about individual cases in our asylum policy and Professor Pieter van Vollenhoven tweets about a bad bank and other social abuses. Just like every Dutchman his heart sometimes airs on social media about pressing political issues. Sometimes they're like people, I thought, those members of our Royal House. One time I nod in agreement and the other time I shake my head, especially when I think of the precedent. Because it is risky to make the question of exactly where that limit lies depend on the extent to which I myself agree with that statement. And that is why I would like to invite the Prime Minister to reflect on the examples I mentioned, but there are more, in the light of his ministerial responsibility. In this context, I would also like to mention Princess or Queen Máxima, who, on behalf of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, is committed to inclusive funding worldwide. In that case, this happens, by chance or not, entirely in line with government policy. I am pleased that she has also agreed to our request to provide a briefing for Parliament on her work. On this point too, however, I am curious to hear how the Prime Minister guarantees that he will be able to fulfil his ministerial responsibility properly. Mr. Chairman. Last year I asked here about constitutional continuity and its democratic legitimacy in extreme emergency scenarios. My conclusion at that time was that the current arrangements do not provide sufficient guarantees for this. In the past year, the Prime Minister has studied it and I thank him very much for his response to it. The cabinet is going to take a precautionary measure, but for the royal authority, the reasoning in the letter ends in a somewhat unsatisfactory reference to Article 38 of the Constitution. Because at the end of that reasoning is the Council of State. And it remains unclear whether it is properly arranged there. In the written consultation I asked the Prime Minister whether he was prepared to talk to the Council of State. He actually says in the answer: that is up to the Council of State. Is it not good to enter into that conversation, so I ask him, because that is where the continuity for the throne ends. And as far as Parliament is concerned, the Prime Minister rightly writes, with a sense of constitutional relations, that we ourselves should look at this as a Chamber. Like Mr Van Oosten, I would say that it would be wise for the Bureau to consider whether it is desirable and, if so, how it can be shaped. But I am also curious about the views of the other colleagues on this. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. A modern kingship is by definition going along with his time and I therefore hope that today we can take another small step towards greater openness and an even more climate-neutral royal travel policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u44	A few years ago, in 2015, I had already made a proposal to see if we could investigate the remains of Johan Van Oldenbarnevelt in the cellars under the First Chamber. Then I immediately received support via Twitter from Alexander Pechtold: "Support!!" I would like to ask Mr Sneller whether the spirit of Alexander Pechtold is still blowing through the offices of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u45	I do not know every tweet by Mr Pechtold four years ago, but I take it from Mr Van Raak that that tweet has been sent and that the historian's enthusiasm is around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u46	I just wanted to touch on that climate-neutral travel policy of our Royal House. Of course, travelling is not just about how climate-neutral it is, because otherwise we could send that golden carriage with a few horses to Luxembourg for it. That would be much more climate neutral than letting another train run. But have you thought about the safety aspects? Because getting on a plane from airport to airport is all much better organized than getting off by train in the heart of London and having to wipe out almost a whole station to receive our Royal House there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u47	I think the road from Heathrow to the center is at least as unsafe, but that is obviously not the point. The point is that the answer to the technical questions also states that there is no distance clause in the consideration when it comes to the Royal House flight control, which I think should have a place in it. That scheme was established in 2013. Five years later you can conclude that we are looking at something different and that it would be good to consider that. Of course, it must be possible to do so safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u48	I do not hear Mr Sneller now saying that climate-neutral is above security. That wouldn't appeal to us. Of course, there are all kinds of reasons to choose a particular vehicle, including efficient handling of your agenda. Can you confirm that you really only mean it as one of the considerations? For I think that security and the fact that our king may still be in different places on the same day are also very important things to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u49	I don't understand why the CDA spokesperson calls the royal train unsafe here. But I also agree with him, of course, that this is one of the considerations, but I miss him completely now. That is why my question to the Prime Minister was: what is the balancing framework? How has a decision been reached, for example for the trip to Luxembourg and later this year to England?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u50	The king now has to answer for almost everything, so now also about whether he takes the train or the plane. Anyway, at least I didn't say the train was unsafe. I don't know what the state of the train is in terms of maintenance. I have no idea. I'm more concerned with where he gets out, how we deal with the public there, what the security features are. If that train is safe, I don't know. But I don't really feel called to bother the king with all kinds of provisions about when or not to catch the plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I will now go to Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mr. Chairman. Transparency and integrity are two main pillars of confidence in our political system. If these two assurances falter, the whole political system will falter. At the same time, we have seen in recent years that, both in terms of integrity and transparency, there have been some shaky moments. I would like to mention the example of the CTIVD report in the run-up to the referendum. There were integrity scandals in various layers of public administration and there were leaders who had to resign. That is why we must also show that it is extremely important. This seems to me to be an excellent task for the Prime Minister. He deals with the National Information Service. It's about communication. And by definition, he is the guardian of our political system. That is why I would like to ask him if he is prepared to appoint an integrity ambassador within General Affairs, precisely to ensure those two main pillars, integrity and transparency. We all struggle with that at times. We all see it's a tricky thing to do. I think it deserves more attention. A second point I would like to make is that which binds us...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u53	Mrs. Kuik wants to add something. I'd like to take some away. One of the reasons why, for example, so much leaking, integrity is being violated is that people are being recruited on the towers, in the ministries. They get a royal salary. Look at all those information departments that are all paid, every day, to get the minister on the news as best he can. Would it not be better for us, instead of a toothless extra official, to have a good cut in all those treats, in all those informers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u54	Well, informers never leak. Prophets act on instructions from, so I don't think that's gonna take away the problem. I don't want an extra official either. I want a serious person, as we know them as a trusted person, someone who is seriously responsible for the many integrity violations that we know, precisely for the many problems with transparency and precisely because there is a need to be extremely obsessed, in other words, procedures and legal proceedings that need to be brought in order to get parts out of the table. We both want to get rid of that. Who is more appropriate than our Prime Minister to guarantee that? I think he believes in that in his heart, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u55	I believe it is and I don't believe it on the other hand. I had a good talk with a reporter the other day. He had once asked such an informant: why do you do that now? Why do you send pieces to the paper and not to the chamber? Then the informant clearly said: yes, if we send it to the Chamber, then it is no longer news. That is the mentality, a sick mentality at the top of the ministries. I am very pleased that Mrs Kikkie also wants to place that responsibility on the Prime Minister. I do not think it would be a good idea to appoint a new official alone. I think the broom needs to go through. All these types: just get out of here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u56	Like I said, officials don't decide what goes to the paper or what doesn't. Officials also do not decide which reports are or are not withheld. They do not decide whether or not a procedure is kept open. It really isn't. Ministers and Secretary of State do so, because they are ultimately politically responsible. I see now that things about integrity and transparency are really not well regulated across all levels of government. I only have a limited speaking time, otherwise I can fill an entire afternoon with all kinds of examples. Who can I talk to about that? Who can I appeal to about the behaviour of other ministers? That's the Prime Minister. I would like to think about what an ambassador should be like, how we should make sure of that, but I do think this is necessary. I can only see confidence in politics falling further away. That's something we all don't want. I just want to break through those kind of slutty patterns. This calls for new solutions, which requires a different responsibility, including from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u57	I made a proposal myself. The Prime Minister said that the ship of state usually leaks at the top. I've been asking who's seen all those pieces. That is only a very small club when it comes to politicians, ministers and State Secretarys. Then I think it would be better if the Prime Minister did an investigation: who was it, who leaked? Just do direct research, as we would in the House of Representatives. That seems to me to be the most sensible proposal, better than to appoint someone who is powerless.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u58	With one investigation, you don't have the leak upstairs either, because we have a bigger problem. We constantly see decisions about withholding information, we constantly see that it is easier to withhold information and that journalists then have to conduct all kinds of complicated legal proceedings. We also see decisions taken by ministers, which we think afterwards: has that really been very honest? I await the answer to Mr Van Raak's request when it comes to leaking the pieces of Prince's Day, but there is a bigger problem. I want to tackle that. The problem isn't just in the ministers, because it's on more fronts. It does require an offensive to counter that. I believe that the Prime Minister is perfectly capable, including as a person, of fulfilling that function. The coalition agreement pays a lot of attention to Dutchity and what binds us together. Then are called the Wilhelmus, of German blood, the Night's Watch. But for many people, the passport is also the ultimate symbol of Dutch citizenship. Now the cabinet is using that argument to try to take that passport away from second- and third-generation Dutch, at least the double passport. At the same time, however, it is precisely Dutch people who have been living abroad for a very long time, but who want to remain connected with that passport, which in their view is still very important Netherlands. I really want to ask the Prime Minister whether this is the intention of such an important symbol of connection. That is why many people abroad are very proud of the kingship. That's also something that binds us. Is it wise now to want to cut off that important, beautiful symbol of such a Dutch passport? Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns diversity. Last year I asked the Prime Minister to come to more women ministers of state. Part of it worked out, and I'm happy about that. But we are not finished yet, because I see, for example, with the General Administrative Service alone, that there is only a third woman. I see General Affairs scores worse than the Department of Defense. I would like to ask the Prime Minister through you, Mr President, what can we expect from this Prime Minister when it comes to diversity in the broad sense? I know he's said before: I find it hard to find women. That was also the case with the establishment of the cabinet. So I've been thinking, how can I help the Prime Minister now? I don't know if you have it yet, I'll tell him, but I brought you the new book "The Side of Power" by Julia Wouters. There's all kinds of tips in there. Fun for men, fun for women to read. I hope it can be helpful in everything you have to do to promote diversity. I will give it to you after we have finished the debate. I hope you can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a beautiful late summer day today. The most beautiful place to spend such a day is of course here, in the plenary room of the House of Representatives, but you could also go hiking, on the Veluwe for example. One of the most beautiful places there is Kroondomain Het Loo. What does the website say about that? An extensive forest and heathland area characterized by natural beauty, silence and tranquility. Mr. Chairman. The crown domain is ours. It was donated to the Dutch people by Queen Wilhelmina in 1959. The king's house keeps the enjoyment; more about it later. Mr. Chairman. A walk on the Veluwe, more specifically crown domain Het Loo, I can therefore highly recommend everyone. Only, most of the crown domain is now locked. You're not getting there. Why not? We read this on page 13 of the Fauna Management Plan Kroondomain Het Loo. It says that 7,200 hectares are closed to the public from mid-September to Christmas. Then another quote: the reasons for this are rest for the red deer during the bronze season and the effective and optimal exercise of the number regulation. That's another way of saying there's hunting. The crown domain closed for rest? Forget it, the crown domain is closed to keep out potters. So you can't go there to look at the animals, but you can go there and shoot animals by invitation. Mr. Chairman. Something's not right here. The Chamber adopted a motion by a majority earlier this year to open the crown domain year round, but it does not. That has to do with the so-called usufruct that the king retains. That enjoyment is mostly the hunt. There is a great deal of secrecy about that. In response to the adopted motion of the Party for Animals to open the crown domain year round to the public, the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food replied that the king himself would set up his house with due regard for the public interest. But the question to what extent the public interest is served by hunting in Kroondomain Het Loo is not answered. Thanks to the 2012 Thieme motion, the Chamber has been given a cost overview of the crown domain and the Royal Department of Fauna management for several years. Tell me the yacht department, 'cause why bother if it's easy? For example, we know that in the coming year four tons will be sent to six wildlife managers, which means hunters are going to spend two tons on road maintenance, because the hunters must of course be able to drive a bit comfortable, and that €92,000 is being spent on cars. What about the salaries for hunters and the purchase of hunting rifles and SUVs? To what extent does this serve the public interest? Can the Prime Minister clarify this? On top of that, the Kroondomain Het Loo also receives a grant of almost eight tonnes to open the area to the public. But how is that possible if the area is locked three and a half months a year? One condition for this opening-up subsidy is that the crown domain is open 358 days a year. Let's talk about the enjoyment. Last year in the crown domain 282 deer and deer were shot, 827 boars and 3 muflons. My question is, have any birds been shot? There's no record of that at all. Who shot those animals? Are those the six hunters employed? Or was it the king? Those were his guests? And what happened to those shot animals? Did they end up in the butcher's or pooper's case? What did that get you? And is that what we're supposed to mean by "fruit use"? Mr. Chairman. A large majority of Dutch people are against the pleasure hunt, but we finance the royal yacht every year through the tax with a total of 1.5 million euros. Hobby hunting isn't like this anymore. It's no use or necessity. Animals deserve better than being used as targets. Let the people enjoy the natural beauty, silence and tranquility, also in the crown domain, also from September to December, and give the animals in the crown domain that peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u61	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u62	Madam President. It is indeed always an interesting debate on the general affairs budget and the king's budget. There are a number of solid ingredients that always come back. Some walks in the Acts, some walking around on Het Loo. And then there are always surprising new elements that emerge in this debate. Moreover, I do not recall that such debates have paid so little attention to the finances of the Royal House. That is actually a compliment to the Prime Minister: it seems that all the murmurs about this in the past have calmed down. I should like to make three brief points myself. This is primarily a day of national mourning, two, the opening up of palaces and three, something about reform in Europe. First the day of national mourning. I noticed that in the past we had days of national mourning, as in the 1960s in a train crash in Harmelen and at John Kennedy's funeral. Then the death of Queen Wilhelmina also occurred. After that, it was completely out of the question for a while. Not at the Bijlmerschamp, for example. The terrible event of the MH17 brought it back from various groups. I myself carefully drew attention to this at the time. You don't want to politicize it at a time when such a terrible disaster is affecting all of us. At first it was said: that is no longer appropriate for this time; everyone has his individual experience. But then it did come eventually, and I think that was actually widely positive. You may have had a lot of room to fill in your own, but it was something common. My question is: what exactly is the line here, in those days of national mourning? Well, that's kind of unclear right now. Other countries also have their experiences with this. I don't make a plea here to do the sister or anything, and then and then. My question to the Prime Minister is rather whether he would like to reflect on this and then come back to us, including how other countries deal with it, how it happened in the Netherlands and what might be a line for the future. That is precisely what I am asking for in order to prevent us from having to talk about it in the event of a specific disaster. Now we can think about that more in peace. My second point is the opening up of the palaces. In 2020, we are dealing with the Binnenhof, which can no longer be visited by visitors. Those tourists, of course, always seek beautiful destinations. Palaces are always very popular, but there are very limited possibilities in the summer months, at Huis ten Bosch and the Noordeinde. My question to the Prime Minister is whether it would not be possible to extend the opening of palaces to visitors, especially when the Binnenhof is being renovated. Could he promote that? Perhaps there are other locations, such as the Royal Stables. That was my second question. My third point concerns Europe. The explanatory memorandum to the budget states that 2019 will be an important year for the European Union. Well, actually, every year is an important year, so those are the statements you can make every year with complete conviction. But it is true: if you look at the forthcoming Brexit and the European elections, then there is a lot going on. My plea is: let us try to push forward the reforms under consideration within the European Union, including the Prime Minister with his authority in Europe. In all these countries, there is growing tendency to leave the European Union. I would very much like to see a counter-movement and to say to the people here in the Netherlands, "No, you can be confident that there will be reforms in Europe and that what needs to be done there is happening in Europe and that we can do what we can do nationally. Finally, I would ask the Prime Minister what the prospects are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u63	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I want to suspend until 11:55. Then we start with the answer and then the regulation comes and so on, but you will find out later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u64	That's lunchtime, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u66	I'm reopening the meeting. We will continue to deal with the General Affairs budget and the King's budget, and I will give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u67	Mr. Chairman. I just got the beautiful book by Julia Wouters from the spokesperson of the Labour Party, Mrs. Kuik. I know her very well, of course she was Louis Asscher's right-hand man for years. But there's also a beautiful quote from Pippi Langkous: I've never done it before, so I think I can do it. I had to think about that, too, when you see how fast some careers are going in the Chamber. That's a nice statement from Pippi Longstocking. But, of course, this is mainly about the position of women. Well, I just wanted to say that. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the questions that have been asked. I'm just gonna go through this crisscross, because it's a lot of different subjects. For the sake of clarity, may I join with all the warm words about how the king and the queen perform the office, however binding they are in society, no matter how much they give the country a face outwards, no matter how much they are the face at times of great national events, of great pleasure, but sometimes of great mourning. I agree with all the speakers who have said kindly that this is impressive, and that the first lustrum this year is indeed being held. I think that the couple, and certainly the King as head of state, will mark the kingship, which is widely appreciated in society and has great support. Against that background a number of questions. The first was the question of the consideration of disclosure of expenditure on budgetary Articles 1 and 2. Perhaps very briefly: Article 41 Constitution, which is often referred to in debates in this Chamber, guarantees that the King has room for the interior of his house, which is essential for the fulfilment of the kingship. This also includes the fact that these expenses are not public unless they affect a public interest. This means that information on the level of actual expenditure by, for example, the Prime Minister is not, in principle, provided, unless there is a situation in which such expenditure actually affects the public interest. That is something that needs to be weighed up on a case-by-case basis. You cannot solve this in a generic way, in which, of course, the conversations I have with the king are important, but also the periodic consultations between the thesaurier and the director of financial and economic affairs, the information from the Audit Service of the Kingdom and the General Court. In general terms, the Prime Minister is, of course, obliged to appoint the grounds on which he has come to the conclusion that the conditions of Article 41 have been met. The second point, of course, was the crown domain. I will not summarize the letter from the Minister of Agriculture here, because you know that letter. Against that background, however, a number of questions have been asked. Firstly, what is the subsidy money being spent on? That is a rather detailed decision, including a fairly detailed siege of where that money is going. That's actually the next answer. First of all, I would like to say that, during the closure of the domain, fauna management is carried out according to an approved fauna management plan. This shall be carried out under the responsibility of the holder of the authorisation; that shall be the steward. At the department, as we know, six fauna managers are employed. They are not only concerned with maintaining the stock of fauna; they are also concerned with the overall management of the site with a very large total size, 6,700 hectares. What's that gonna fall apart in? There's a little recreational allowance in there. This is only about the part of 1,300 hectares that has been opened all year round. In theory, therefore, that amount would be higher if the whole area were opened up, but the 5,400 hectare part was not opened around the year and therefore no recreational allowance was granted. Most of the grant goes to the management grant, which aims to preserve and strengthen the habitat. This concerns, for example, the conservation of pagans and fens, birch and forest, and measures relating to unwanted vegetation, dredging, mowing and pruning. There is also a subsidy to the landscape elements. This concerns, for example, the maintenance of woodwalls, earthworks, quarry and wood singings, and a subsidy for grazing by sheepskudde. Money is also needed to monitor the grant. There is also a strong post to agricultural management. We are talking about agriculture; one part of it is agricultural nature management. This is available to allow animals to have their habitat in the agricultural area. These include birds, dragonflies, butterflies and small mammals. The next question was: is there shooting at birds? The answer is no. Mr Van Oosten's question was: what is the difference between the subsidy and what is in the budget? The point is: that subsidy is really a subsidy from the Ministry of Agriculture, so it has its own responsibility. In the additional supplement to the budget, we present all the expenditure associated with kingship. This subsidy is given to the private person as the manager of the crown domain, as you know this type of subsidy can be given to all Dutch people who own an estate. That is why it is not in the extra comptable annex, but you want to be as complete as possible and hence a footnote has been added. Perhaps it would be better if we simply put it in the main text in the future to remove that misunderstanding. Maybe that'll be better. Then there was the question: do you really have to open it for 358 days, according to the requirements of the SNL subsidies that this includes? It works in such a way that the Ministry grants the grant on the basis of the Framework Act EZ grants, under similar application of the Grant Regulation Nature and Landscape Management of the province of Gelderland from 2016. That Regulation provides for the possibility of granting an exemption from the obligation to open and keep accessible nature reserves for at least 358 days. Therefore, the exemption was granted and the subsidy runs until 31 December 2021. Then I guess I answered all the questions about the crown domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u68	I would like to know, however, on the basis of which exception that subsidy is granted. I also looked at some exceptions, but I couldn't find anything there that applies to Kroondomain Het Loo.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u69	Oh. I don't have that ready here, but I'm assuming we can find out. Otherwise, I'll let you have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u70	In fact, the Prime Minister gives a very long list of grounds for influencing the opening up, but the letter says that there is no basis for exerting influence. How am I supposed to rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u71	Not from Article 2 of the budget. I have to go back to the letter sent by my colleague from Agriculture. I won't read it all here. You saw that letter. It explains the legal nature of the relationship between the actual crown domain and the rest, and what that means for the use and the possibilities we have. So, from Article 2 of the budget, there are no possibilities, but the subsidy can, of course, be demanded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u72	So for the period after 31 December 2021, we could make new agreements on the opening up and the conditions for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u73	As far as the grant is concerned in the theoretical situation of another grant being applied for and the rules are the same, you could look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u74	Would the Prime Minister be prepared to inform the Chamber on this, should that moment come, so that we can discuss it at the relevant time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u75	I think that's complicated, because then I have to inform the Chamber about an individual grant application from someone. I should ask you if you can do that. I do not think I can inform the Chamber that I or that we have received a grant application from one citizen as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u76	I get the trouble. I'd like to hear it in second term, because I think we're coming here in the public interest. That is why, as a Chamber, we call for attention to be paid to this. It is argued that there is no basis to exert influence, while there is clearly ground. Then let's use that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u77	I don't know if this is the public interest... The public interest concerns Article 2 of the budget. Within the money earmarked for the crown domain in Article 2 of the budget, there are no possibilities from the legal point of view. It is, as is well known, the State donated by Queen Wilhelmina in naked property, on condition that the usufruct remained with the Crown Carrier and that it would be managed as a whole. From that whole thought, so the full use and management of the crown domain belonging to the private property of the Crown Carrier, with which she can freely dispose of the good as an owner can do, with the exception of the right to alienate or sell. That's the legal position. Article 2 of the budget therefore leaves no room for manoeuvre. From the grant you could see if you want to make further demands. Mr Wassenberg has now been elected: on what basis, what is the legal basis? In order to make that exception to full opening around the year. I understand that Mr Sneller is wondering about the granting of subsidies: could you then make further demands? I think that's theoretical. I'll see if I can tell the Chamber if such a grant application is on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u78	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u79	The Prime Minister's right. I used the word "public interest" a little too loosely. I meant public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u80	I still have a question for the Prime Minister to clarify. We look at the Hoge Veluwe or other nature reserves. Nature and fauna management takes place there without long-term closure. Why here? Can you explain that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u81	Yes, that is further up to the user of this domain, he does not have to answer for it. The question was: can you take that into account in the subsidy scheme? Yeah, you can. We're just trying to figure out the legal basis for that. In doing so, you have to ask yourself whether the fruit user has reasonably come to that management. We have seen this and it is covered by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u82	I have just one question about the footnote that is now in the budget. The Prime Minister states that it may be commendable to upgrade that footnote to a full text. I was wondering what to expect at that point. You know, I'm not so much concerned with exactly what's going on on that crown domain, I'm more concerned with being clear about where the money is going. Part of it is spent on the crown domain. And indeed, so is the king. As far as I am concerned, this is just what we call it with the explanation that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u83	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. Then it goes away from the footnote and thus becomes more visible in the piece. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u84	Still, a question about that public interest. The Prime Minister says the king is free in the institution of his house. Acts that are not public are part of this unless they affect the public interest. I believe that I paraphrase the Prime Minister well with that. But a nature reserve which has been given to the people and which is closed for hunting three and a half months a year seems to me to be a matter in which the public interest is at stake. Can the Minister explain why there are no more details about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u85	No, it can't be because it's just private. The full use and management of the crown domain belong to the private property of the Crown Carrier. That's how it's arranged for the transfer. The fruit user of a good can freely dispose of a good as an owner can, of course, with the exception of alienating or selling. It's just a big landowner. He can decide what to do with it within the laws and regulations. We've discussed two targets here. The first was the Aryan motion, which said, "What can you do?" We have written a letter about this, in which we have said that we do not have the means, if we wish to find any of it, to enforce it. That is not the question of whether we would like to do so; that is another discussion. In addition, we have the grant conditions. They're stuck until the end of 2021 and you can't break open. Mr Sneller's question is whether you can do something about a new grant application. I'm gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u86	The Prime Minister says it's all within the laws and regulations, but he himself says it's not public unless it affects the public interest. I would argue that this does indeed affect the public interest and that it is therefore not sacred in a restricted manner. I think it should be public, because it affects the public interest. The Prime Minister hasn't gone into that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u87	Why would it affect the public interest? The king may manage this as he pleases, of course within the laws and regulations. He has reasonably come to that management. That is the question we must ask ourselves as a government. We believe that he has reasonably come to that management. You can also see that the whole way the crown domain is managed is based on the principle of natural forest management. It is based on a coherent policy in the areas of wood production, population management and recreational opportunities. It is truly one of the most modern international insights in how to manage large landscapes. The discussion does not deal with this either, but focuses on the three-month closure of a large part of the domain. That's just what the fruit user has the potential for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u88	The Prime Minister says that he does not know to what extent the public interest is served, but the public interest is that a nature reserve given to the Dutch people is closed three and a half months a year. That affects the public interest, because people can't go there. It seems to me that this has affected the public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u89	No, just because someone can't go there isn't a reason it affects the public interest. You can't just walk into the palaces. Then it doesn't touch the public interest either. Here it is arranged that Wilhelmina donated this to the State on condition that the usufruct remained with the Crown Carrier and that it would be managed as a whole. This includes the full use and management of the crown domain as a private asset of the Crown Carrier. They can therefore also freely dispose of this good, as any owner can, except when it comes to alienating or selling. Of course, there are limits to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Chairman. Then we get the question of the opening of the palèzûh in the Hague plateau, which we call the "palèzes." A lot has already been opened up. The Royal Palace on Dam Square is of course accessible with a public and museum function. Noordeinde Palace and the Royal Stables have been opened during the last three summers. Of course, we've seen the Orange Room open for a while. Through a film and images of the Oranjezaal the Oranjezaal is available via a virtual tour on the internet. Via Google Street View you can also see the Royal Palace of Amsterdam, the Oranjezaal, Noordeinde Palace, the Royal House Archive and the Royal Stables. The Royal Collections and the Royal Stal Department are both part of the Noordeinde complex and are accessible under conditions throughout the year. The King's Cabinet in The Hague, where once.. who lived there again? Green from Prinsterer lived, is open on Open Monument Day and on special occasions. Thorbecke sat in the Tower and waved to Green from Princer in what is now the King's Cabinet. From year to year it is considered whether Palace Noordeinde and the Royal Stables will be opened again in the next summer. I can say that the experience over the last three years has been positive, but a decision has yet to be taken. Depending on the logistical possibilities, the king's aim is to open Palace Noordeinde to the public again in the coming summer. Mr. Chairman. Then about the Brexit. Yes, I read what the King said about it. That is, of course, entirely in line with government policy. In doing so, I can also assume full ministerial responsibility for this. During a broadcast of Radio 5 on the Week of Alphabetization, Princess Laurentien said in response to a question about the Armenian children Lili and Howick that she does not want and cannot have an opinion on this issue. She didn't want to wake up that suggestion in that conversation either. A question has been asked about flying. In addition, prior to the King's travels, an integral balance is made between the best transport. Then you look at destination, program, safety and efficiency, but also at costs. Environmental weighing therefore also plays a role in this. That assessment shall be made on a case-by-case basis. You cannot make it dependent on one specific circumstance, such as distance. In this sense, therefore, the consideration does not differ from the consideration of other members of the government. As you know, the King is also a member of the government. I would therefore be against further rules on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u92	I understand that if the distance regulation is only part of that balancing framework, but the technical response indicated that it is not yet part of it, whereas the Prime Minister is now making this very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u93	We're looking at everything. So we look at destination, program, efficiency and security. They're all taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u94	So it is true that if a state visit, for example to the United Kingdom, is within five hours of travel, this is taken into account in the consideration and therefore the train is more clearly depicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u95	Yeah, maybe you should turn that around: if you go to Japan or China, the train or the car isn't in the picture, but the closer it is, of course, it's a trade-off, but besides many other considerations. So it's not like he's going to take the train to London in two weeks. In any case, we cannot say anything about this, but the means of transport chosen is the result of this broader consideration of programme, destination, efficiency and safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u96	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u97	Of course, this consideration is difficult for us to follow, but I hope that we will see that train a little more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u98	I'm aware of that, but I'm sticking to the answer. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll talk about the side functions. The ministerial responsibility is indeed Article 42 of the Constitution, to which Mr Sneller referred. That article includes, inter alia, the acceptance, exercise and termination of functions by members of the Royal House. That is indeed a consequence of the legal or, indeed, constitutional regulation of the membership of the Royal House. That ministerial responsibility may continue to be based on the nature of the function if it were of a public nature. There are in practice different types of functions and also differences between members of the Royal House in terms of functions. Of course, their special function enables them to support a social area by taking up a position in this area. In this way, they serve the public interest with their personal talents, commitment and commitment. For members of the Royal House who do not receive a constitutional allowance, a function can of course also serve as a source of income. Let us not forget that only three members of the Royal House belong to the beneficiaries. Those are Princess Beatrix, the King and the Queen. The political starting point is that the ministerial responsibility for the King is complete, for his wife and successor almost completely and for the other members of the Royal House more limited. For example, for Pieter van Vollenhoven's tweets, he is at a greater distance from the throne and the ministerial responsibility for it is less complete. So I don't have to agree with every tweet either. I try to deal somewhat relaxed with the ministerial responsibility, but as far as the Crown is concerned, the King himself and the Queen, that is obviously very sensitive. You can also see that they are very aware of that themselves. Then, of course, there was the question of the Council of State now that the government, following the Sneller motion, has given birth to a designated Survivor Policy. We are prepared to enter into talks with the Council of State as well. That question was asked. In practice, it appears that the members of the Council of State are never complete; if you look in the recent past, one is always absent. But it's good to have that conversation with them again. As far as the Chamber is concerned, I have just said that this would be worth considering, but that we are not dealing with it as a cabinet. This, of course, concerns mainly the Commission for the Letters of Faith. If the whole room weren't alive, you'd have to take a lower look at the election lists. It seems to me that then you should avoid having a committee for the letters of faith with a one-sided composition. That was for the Chamber to consider, but that's all I'm saying. Mr Van Oosten asked whether it was a standard procedure. In fact, the answer we have put in the letter is that it may be desirable that the entire government should not be present at a particular meeting, and that we should therefore designate someone who will not be present in advance. It means that I am now a little reluctant in my statements as to whether this is always the case when the whole cabinet is going to be somewhere. We can of course assume that this is true at least for the third Tuesday in September, if only because parliamentary journalism is going to count differently, and we want to avoid that. But of course we are not trying to tell you everything about this, so I am a little vague about this. But the line is that if the entire government is to be present, then that consideration must be made. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the independent committees. These are, of course, usually set up by the minister responsible. Of course, they touch on the ministerial responsibility. A recommendation will have to be assessed and implemented by the Minister himself. It is therefore obvious that the results of the committee's work will first reach the Minister or Secretary of State. This does not affect the constitutional information obligation of the Minister or Secretary of State to the Chamber. Mr Bosma's question was: why do the reports not automatically go to the House of Representatives after six weeks? For this purpose, it is laid down by law that the Minister sends those reports with a policy response. In particular, it was a CTIVD report. This concerns Article 113 of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. This has been done, among other things, because the Minister is responsible for deciding whether something is a state secret. It must therefore be able to make that assessment, and it must do so as soon as possible. This was also discussed extensively during the examination of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. During the general discussion on this subject, the Minister for the Interior also made a commitment to further tighten up the process. Why, so early in the day, Mr Bosma, is the CTIVD not in the Chamber? That is actually because the CTIVD can cover all the services' data and ministers are responsible for the secrecy of state secrets of these services. If the CTIVD were to be placed under the Lower House, that responsibility could no longer be taken on this point. Having said that, I can assure you that the CTIVD can do its job in complete independence. The members themselves are responsible for this. General Affairs is only responsible for housing, ICT and all other factors that the CTIVD, but also the TIB that has now emerged after the Wiv, practically need to be able to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u99	Mr. Chairman. I had also asked about this issue, not the CTIVD but the independent supervisors. While some ministries do not discuss the content of the reports, they remain there. How does the Minister view this? Can he look again, in consultation with the govern ments concerned, at how these relations can be changed, so that those reports can come our way a little more quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u100	I think that's repairing something that's not broken. Look, investigation committees are set up by a regiment. They are therefore directly under ministerial responsibility. That means that, when such a report comes out, the ruler must have a chance to find something of it. That is why it is logical that he or she should receive such a report. But that does not affect the constitutional information obligation that the govern ment has towards the parliament; it remains. Soon I have no examples from the practice of where that would not go well. If there are, we can look specifically at them, but then they have probably already been discussed with the rulers involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u101	I do have some examples, but I don't have them right now. I'll send them to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u102	I'd love to. I'll take a look at that. Then there was the question about May 4 and 5th. I very much agree with Mr Van der Molen of the CDA that this is going to be a great moment, 75 years of liberation. That starts next year, of course, with the liberation of the south and the hunger winter. In May 2020 there will be the commemoration of 75 years of liberation. There is a coordinating director and that is Secretary of State Paul Blokhuis of VWS, but I can report to Mr Van der Molen and also promise that I will, of course, be very closely involved myself. The Secretary of State is coordinating it now and is doing very well. He's actively preparing for that memorial. Again, it starts in 2019. He will soon inform the Court of Justice about this and will also discuss it in the discussion of the VWS budget. I will also send him what has been discussed here today on this point and the importance that Mr Van der Molen has given me to support that completely appointed here - in the context of a successful celebration in May in two years' time and in the run-up to it next year. Again, the coordinating ruler is doing well. If I'm gonna call him and tell him I'm gonna do it myself, that's not motivating either. Let me agree with Mr Van der Molen that I too remain very closely involved. That is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u103	I do not know whether every call from the Prime Minister is indeed motivating, because that will depend on those other rulers, but I would very much like to have an overall picture from the Prime Minister and General Affairs of what the Cabinet can do much more in other areas. So just a sketch of what's already in the pipeline, of which I say we want another shovel on top. Indeed, I do not want to get in the way of the Secretary of State, but I would like to agree with the Prime Minister that he is also addressing the Secretary of State to look at what more could be added in all ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u104	My impression, also from his coordinating role, is that he wants to do the same, but what will also motivate him is what has been discussed here in this debate. So I'm gonna double-check it. I thought it was the intention to take a broad look at it, so not only from VWS but really from the width, but I think we agree and I myself remain very closely involved. Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether there is any provision for national mourning. The answer is actually no and yes. The short answer is no, because there is not a protocolary schematic that says exactly: national mourning in this calamity and that calamity is not a national mourning. At the same time, the answer is yes, because we do know a number of components in this respect. They are partly in customs and partly in decisions but mainly in uses that are also a bit dependent on the circumstances. That was, of course, very visible on 23 July 2014, the day when the first victims of the terrible disaster with flight MH17 returned to our country. That was a day of national mourning including a flag instruction, the call to ring bells and the request to observe a minute's silence after landing. I think we have all seen that that day has been filled in in an impressive way. I think about the spectators along the route, the cars from Eindhoven to Hilversum after the landing of the plane and the ceremony at the airport. It must be about an event of enormous magnitude, an event that is unmistakably touching and touching the whole country. For example, we saw this with the flood in 1953. In such cases and circumstances, the proclamation of a day of national mourning is entirely appropriate. My feeling, also heard this debate, is that we should not want to protocol it further in detail, that we should leave some room to find a connection with the unique circumstances of such a sad situation because protocol learning will always mean that the question "why is there and why isn't there?" And in the end it's something that, I think, arises. I remember that very sharply with MH17. That happened on a Thursday and the next few days questions came about national mourning. My answer was initially: we do not know this tradition in the Netherlands. But luckily that train went on Monday, that train with the remains from the area in Ukraine occupied by the rebels. That train went to a part of Ukraine that we could control. At that time it was so obvious to me and to the entire team working on it, also given all the reactions in society, that the day of the landing of the plane, with that ceremony and everything around it, should be a day of national mourning. So, in all this misery, that also has something beautiful: that is almost demanded by society as a whole. That's how I felt. That was better than if I had to take it off a shelf: protocol 3. So also from what happened to the flood disaster and with MH17, it is my feeling that it is in itself, and for that this debate is useful again, sufficient to be keen on each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u105	It's recognizable what the Prime Minister says. Nor, as far as I am concerned, is there any plea for a rigorous protocol. That would also raise questions that you shouldn't want to answer in advance. I only note that in the 1960s the tradition of national mourning had come to an end. They said that affects individual freedom too much. And around MH17 there was also a discussion about it, and then it was chosen. Does the Prime Minister say that it can also be discussed again in the event of new events?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u106	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u107	Has this tradition been revived? But we are not going to fill out exactly when and when.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u108	That is exactly the situation, because, and I answered that in the first instance after Thursday 17 July 2014: we no longer know that tradition in the Netherlands. With the team that worked day and night on everything that came after the terrible disaster, during that weekend and that Monday and Tuesday the awareness grew, almost worn by the whole society: this is so great, that here the answer is not enough that we do not know that tradition anymore. Then it will exist from now on! The special thing about that was this. I remember that we announced it, and I'll take a look at the AZ-AZ section at around seven o'clock or late in the afternoon on Tuesday. There were very requests from municipalities and provinces about what that meant. Then we said, "There are no protocols for that. You'll have to fill that out yourself. There are a few things we do know: the flag instruction, the minute silence after the landing of the plane and the trip to Hilversum. Those are the elements we know." At that time, so much has come loose in municipalities, in local communities and in associations, to fill in in the way they wanted, that it also became a day of national mourning that fits very well with this time. But the short answer to Mr Van der Staaij's speech is: yes, his speech is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u109	I recognize what the Prime Minister says in a positive way about the MH17 remembrance. That was a good mix of proclaiming on the one hand a day of national mourning, but on the other hand a free interpretation. The creativity of many to give it its own content is therefore also challenged. As far as disasters are concerned, I can live well with what the Prime Minister says about them. I still have the question of, for example, what is the situation with former heads of state and so on? Because we are still seeing different practices there. Maybe that's a point to at least take with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u110	I'm gonna have to think about that. Of course, we didn't do that in 2004 when Queen Juliana died. So that's a point to chew on. Mr. Chairman. We're getting closer to the block of history. We've been asked for 1581, about the Paste of Abandonmenthe. This is seen by many as a declaration of independence. The impact of this has been enormous, for example on the American Declaration of Independence of two centuries later. At the same time, and that makes the situation of the Netherlands so interesting again, you have never really had one constituent document here. Only as we have pushed the States-General and the Council of State from the old systems to the new... Well, just look at how many forms the States General has had. As it is now, it is in almost nothing recognizable in what it was before 1813, and neither is the Council of State. Bosma himself mentioned the Pacification of Ghent, but also the Union of Utrecht from 1597 or the first Constitution of the Netherlands, of Van Hogendorp from 1814. Some might say, well, 1848 or 1849 maybe. At the same time, I think we should be careful to place those moments alone in our national key. The Vice-President of the Council of State devoted valuable words to this at a meeting on the Vertaat van Vertaathe in the Upper Chamber on 26 July. By the way, the commemoration and festivities of 4 and 5 May, on the occasion of our most recent memory of our independence, to some extent also fulfil that requested function. Finally, I think, but that is more practical, that a national holiday on 26 July is not going to work very much. Anyway, you could say: we celebrate in November and we say July 26th. In short, these are wonderful moments that mark the arrival of the Netherlands, but I find it difficult to really highlight one. Then we come to what is for me the greatest statesman in our history: Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, of course in a conflict with Johan de Witt. So also the question of what is really going on with his remains and the image. In any case, I think we all agree that he is one of the greatest statesmen. I have just looked up a debate that took place in the First Chamber between then Minister Blok in his previous office, in the previous cabinet... No, that was in this Chamber, between Minister Blok and Mr Van Raak. They said, "How beautiful that we both embrace Johan van Oldenbarnevelt." This was mainly because Mr Blok said that he was also a man of free trade. I do not know exactly what he did for real socialism, said Mr Blok in that debate. But it also bears witness to the greatness of Mr Van Raak that that is no reason for him not to draw attention to this issue. His execution in 1619 was one of the most shocking events, I think, in the history of the republic and of our country. He is present in several places in and around the Binnenhof. There is of course a memorial stone in the wall of the First Chamber on the side of the Binnenhof. His statue at the Hofvijver.I think that's interesting.I think it's beautiful, but as he sits there now, it gets very ugly in the Binnenhof. Then you're gonna have to walk around the back. I wouldn't know how to place that nicely in the Binnenhof. Then you'd have to make a whole different statue. But there is another reason why he is actually in the right place, because he looks out at the meeting place of the States of Holland. If the States of Holland are meeting, now the Senate, in that room, where the representatives of the provinces are still sitting, but then only of Holland, that is the place he served faithfully as a pensionary. So there's actually something to say. There is an exhibition at the Hague Historical Museum in early December. Then I come to the point of the grave. As I have just said, Mr Blok has already mentioned this, for example, the need for a permit from the City of The Hague to make this possible. Then it was said by the Chamber: okay, we're doing a renovation without that investigation. And the question is whether you should reconsider here, too. We're doing that on more points, so you should do it here. This affects a project that falls under the responsibility of the State Secretary of BZK and is accompanied by a committee. I think this is an opportunity to talk about this. Moreover, it is a matter of which we must note that many parties are involved, and time, money, procedures. Anyway, I would like to say that I would ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to reconsider the possibilities and inability, without prejudging the outcome now, and then see if such a review could lead to a different positioning than in 2016. He didn't see Mr Van Raak coming!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u111	No. He's gonna have to think this through. I think it's gonna be a nice interrupt debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u112	No, I'm always confident when it comes to the Prime Minister. By the way, when it comes to the Senate, the former states of Holland, the nice thing is that they have two sides. So also from this side of the Binnenhof the statue of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt could still be aimed at that. Thank you very much for the Prime Minister's commitment. I didn't expect anything else either, because he's a historian, so his historic heart needs to speak here. I also like the fact that, as Prime Minister of the Netherlands, he says that Johan van Oldenbarnevelt is the statesman for him. I look forward to the results of that review. I had a motion to refer it to the Chamber. In it, I asked the Prime Minister to find out what possibilities there are for an investigation. If the Prime Minister promises to do so, I am very happy today in this respect. Will the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State see what possibilities there are for investigating the remains of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt? My question is also to inform us about this. Maybe the Prime Minister can mention another term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u113	A term... As soon as possible. I'll take a look at the field where the officials are. It's all AZ what's in there. We don't know how fast that can be. I'll check on that before the second term. Let's see if we can get in touch with BZK about how fast that can be. Apart from the fact that I really think that Johan van Oldenbarnevelt is our greatest statesman, I naturally have every political interest in finding that, because one of the most beautiful biographies was written by Ben Knapen, the CDA's list leader in the forthcoming Senate elections, as you know, but that aside. There are still a few questions from the first term of the Chamber. One was about the leakage for Prince's Day. Of course, it is possible to launch a criminal investigation for this. If you look at the circle within which information has been disseminated, you should also find that, at least that is my belief that such an investigation is reasonable and expected to be very costly and fruitless. At the time of leaking, the circle in which the pieces were distributed was so large that I do not consider a criminal investigation necessary or desirable. I don't think it's gonna work either. What I really disagree with Mr Van Raak is the words he spoke about our spokesmen and our officials. I really believe that the ship of state is leaking at the top and not at the bottom. I have so far, in the eight years in this job and also in the positions before it, only good experiences with officials, in the sense that they do not leak. But a number of politicians had knowledge of all these pieces as well, because of course that circle had grown. I therefore find that a criminal investigation does not add anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u114	No, I started and ended my input with the Prime Minister's quote: "The ship of state usually leaks from the top." So he says there are politicians leaking. I thought that was a very interesting observation; that's what I said. I also asked the Prime Minister who had these documents earlier in the written round. The Council of State, the General Court of Auditors, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the Central Planning Bureau, De Nederlandsche Bank, the Koning's Office, Language Centre-VU and printer Sdu. None of them are politicians. So then it's limited to the ministries. Then I count: ministers and secretaries of state. That seems to me to be a clear group of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u115	Of course, that's not entirely true. Whoever sees those pieces, who sees those books, in the making or off, that's that limited group. But the circle that sees what is in those booklets, which is involved in preparing the decision-making in a coalition, is, of course, larger. Of course, you must also have contact with parliamentary groups to see what the political basis is for certain choices, if additional savings are to be made or if certain additional expenditures are to be made. Then you do it in such a way that it doesn't get stuck in the Chamber immediately. So that circle is definitely bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u116	Aha! Next time, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to answer my questions better, because I asked an extensive question. It was also about parts of those documents, about texts from those budgets, which later came back in one form or another. Then the Prime Minister forgot to mention that these documents apparently also go to MPs. Is it true that those documents also go to MPs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u117	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u118	Well, let me rephrase. Which politicians, other than ministers and secretaries of state, all took note of these documents before leaking them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u119	Not those pieces. But you have seen, for example, a coalition meeting taking place in the second half of August and early September. Of course, there will be Sundays again in parliamentary groups, and then not about texts that are eventually in the Prinsjesdag pieces, but about a number of underlying political choices. These political choices are, of course, known to a much wider circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u120	I conclude that it is still a rather limited club. They are ministers, secretaries of state and a number of MPs. That's still a limited club, so I'll ask the Chamber for such an investigation in a motion later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u121	I will discourage that motion because by definition that club is not limited. Fortunately, this coalition has a majority here in the Chamber. Many of these issues are discussed in group meetings. So you've got a bigger group after all. Then there was the demand for diversity in General Affairs. We now have two top officials. That's two men. That's right, but the last secretary general was a woman. That's where we did better. If you look at the percentage of women at AZ, not just in the top, that's about 50%. I agree that we must strive for a further increase in the number of women, not only at AZ, but at all in the state service. I will of course also be inspired by the booklet "Now book," which Julia Wouters wrote. They also asked who is the first contact point for a number of things, such as MeToo or integrity. I'm never like that for first contact points because the experience is that everyone thinks: oh, the point of contact is about it, so I don't have to do anything about it anymore. Issues that affect the general concepts of MeToo and integrity can be addressed by stakeholders through the available general tools, such as trusted persons, integrity hotlines. Issues, such as those that may occur in all parts of the government, can best be addressed in the places where they occur. I am not in favour of pointing out directors specifically, again because other rulers can think: oh, that's nice, Piet is about whether Mieke, so I don't have to do it anymore. It is true that all directors and also the administration of the departments at present attach great importance to maintaining integrity and combating abuses. There's a lot of energy in it. That's what I'd like to say here. The fact that I am not in favour of a special ruler for integrity or MeToo does not mean that we do not think this is important. It is very important and it is being worked very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u122	I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that he thinks this is a very important subject. Thank you for that. Coming back to the division of labour, I don't think so. If no one is responsible, then there is no coordination in all these different areas either, because it is not just integrity. It's justice, it's policy making, it's prevention, it's prevention. So there are all kinds of aspects that affect every responsible minister. Hence my question as to whether it would be better to have a single point of contact for this purpose, so that, in this social debate, it becomes clear, internally and externally, who has the direction and who has the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u123	Paradoxically, while we are pursuing the same goal, I believe that it leads to less attention being paid to it because others will say: oh, that person is about it. I really think it's important that everyone feels: you can't dive here as a ruler or as a top official. If this occurs in your organization, integrity or issues that lie in the field of MeToo, then you have to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u124	Does the Prime Minister want to take an active stance in his cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u125	Sure, and that's what we're doing. We are also talking about whether we are talking about direct contacts with directors or the cabinet as a whole. That is not only because MeToo is playing now, but because we are all trying to create an atmosphere here in the Chamber, in politics, in departments, also as an example to the rest of society in which everyone can celebrate diversity in full who he or she is without feeling threatened, an atmosphere in which integrity and integrity should be the highest standard. I can absolutely commit to that and we are working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u126	Does the Prime Minister have a coordinating role? Is he about the National Information Service and does he also have a supervisory role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u127	At what point, integrity or at all? Now I have to be careful not to make myself too big, because then I'll have a fight with 15 other ministers. I am chairman of the Council of Ministers, I must promote the unity of government policy and I am dealing with the agenda of the Council of Ministers. But I'm not coordinating with the entire cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u128	If you're talking about the National Information Service, I asked you to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u129	Yeah, that's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u130	Well, hoppa, we've got something. Why is the Prime Minister talking about this, why is he setting the agenda and why is he President of the Council of Ministers? That is because it is important that you do not just leave everything to the individual ministers. In recent years, we have had major problems with integrity. Sometimes within the departments and sometimes with ministers, even when it comes to transparency. I mention reports that only see the light of day because there are WOB procedures and reports that are being withheld when they could have gone outside for a long time. I therefore believe that the Prime Minister has a leading role in the important pillars of our democracy, an agenda-setting role, as he also has a number of other roles.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u131	Yeah, so we need an integrity ambassador? I wouldn't be for that. The Prime Minister is responsible for promoting the unity of government policy. This includes responsibility for the National Information Service and the establishment of the agenda of the Council of Ministers. The Prime Minister of the Netherlands, like the German Chancellor, does not have a guideline. I can't give orders. Neither does the German chancellor in practice, because she does not have the majority with her party. But in itself it can give target lines to other ministers. I think that the implementation of the prime ministership that has grown in the Netherlands is a very good one, because it is actually rather light in the formal instrumentation and can therefore be very effective in practice. There are, therefore, coordinating aspects to this. I'm not denying that. But the question was not so much "coordinates the Prime Minister?', But more: should there be an integrity ambassador? I wouldn't be for that, because you'd make it way too easy for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u132	I do not share that view. On paper, we have not formally regulated the Prime Minister, but we know that this role is enormous in practice. We see that the scandals surrounding integrity, as well as the lack of transparency, are increasing. Why, then, are we talking about the National Information Service, but not about the other two main pillars of integrity and transparency, when we see that this is incredibly important? It is important for confidence in democracy. So we cannot just leave it to the individual directors, also because it sometimes affects their own directors. If you don't like the word "ambassador," we'll come up with something else. But I am actually calling on you, as a person, to take that role more seriously in terms of integrity and transparency and to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u133	I take that part seriously and I do something with it. When things are going on, standards start with me as chairman of the Council of Ministers, also in the tone of discussion within the cabinet and within the coalition. I recognize that, that's what I'm for, and I do, but I wouldn't want to appoint someone else separately. I wouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u134	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u135	Then there is the disclosure of the agendas of directors. Since autumn 2017, we offer more insight into public agenda agreements. On a weekly basis, the departments provide an overview published on national government.nl. At the end of the day, directors decide exactly how to implement it. That has not been codified and I do not think we should do that either. Then there is the question of the sustainability of palaces and of Huis ten Bosch. To this end, we look very closely at the possibilities of sustainability. This means that at the start of a project you will investigate whether solar panels can be applied cost-effectively. This was not the case at Huis ten Bosch, as the investigation showed. This does not mean that no more sustainable measures are being taken. Wherever possible, glass is replaced by energy-efficient glass and durable materials are used. So there is that look of sustainability. A concrete example is that there will be solar panels at Noordeinde Palace, on the flat part of the roof that is not visible. But since all my knowledge on this point is now exhausted, it may be possible to discuss this further with Secretary of State Knops of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u136	The question about the sustainability of the palaces was indeed mine. The King has expressed this wish and that is the responsibility of the Prime Minister. What is the problem of making House ten Bosch sustainable with solar panels?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u137	It was examined at the start of the project whether this could be cost-effective and it was concluded that this was not the case. But for example at Noordeinde Palace, it turns out that you can install solar panels on the non-visible flat part of the roof. So sometimes it can, sometimes it can't. And if you can't, you look at other things like energy-efficient glass and the use of sustainable materials.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u138	Then I would like to know what the cost-effective border the Prime Minister is referring to. I also asked if the Prime Minister would take on an active role in the sustainability of the palaces. That is also his responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u139	No, the Secretary of State for the Interior will do that, because if I don't, I won't survive. But the Cabinet does. That's what the Secretary of State for the Interior does. And your question, where exactly is the tip of what is still cost-effective and what is not: I would really like to ask you to deal with that question in the Home Affairs budget, because in General Affairs we have one or one and a half officials dealing with these issues, and with everything about the Royal House, when they have a lot more in the Home Affairs area. So they can come up with much better answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u140	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u141	I have a feeling that the Prime Minister is going a bit on this subject. Cost-effectiveness: I understand that, but we don't have any clarity as to what that was. I hear the king say it's about laws and regulations. It's not entirely clear what's going on here. I can imagine that the Prime Minister may not have all the information at the moment. If that is the case, he may also send that information to us in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u142	No, Mr. Chairman. I'd really be against that. This really needs to be reviewed with the Home Secretary. This goes beyond this debate on the AZ budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u143	And tonight is also the debate on the Home Affairs budget. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u144	Mr. Chairman. Finally, there was a question from Mr Van der Staaij about Europe and how we can prevent other countries from deciding to follow Brexit. How do you ensure that Europe is effective at the same time? Can I say a few things about that in general? Membership of the European Union fits, as far as I am concerned, with the most important tasks that we as politicians have: how do we keep the country safe? How do we keep the country prosperous? The fact that we work together has increased security and the fact that we are a member of the strongest, largest and most powerful internal market in the world has brought much to the Netherlands. We are now the world's third exporter, after Germany and Japan, and we have literally millions of jobs here thanks to international trade, the vast majority of which is within Europe. Then there is the question of how to keep Europe effective. I assume that the agenda of this Commission is well known. I think it is the right agenda: simplify the Union and not become active in areas where you should not be active. I am always happy when I hear that the European Parliament grumbling that they do not have enough to do compared to previous periods. Then it seems that we have succeeded in calming down the legislative machinery a bit. There is a chance now, because next May there will be an informal summit in Sibiu, in Romania, under the Romanian Presidency, led by Klaus Iohannis, the Romanian President. I was visiting him a few weeks ago. At that time, we discussed this at length. We will continue to do so, because that is an opportunity, even before the European elections, to put the five-year agenda in the ground for the new period in Europe. As far as I am concerned, this will be again about simplification. That will certainly be the case, but at the same time we will also have to take care of a few things in terms of climate, migration and external border surveillance, and, of course, the completion of the internal market. We also need to talk about what we don't do. In my opinion, one of the reasons why support for the European Union is growing so much in all these studies in the Netherlands is partly that people feel that we are living in an unstable world, that there is something really going on and that with a small country of 300 by 200 kilometers you cannot stand completely on your own in this troubled world. But it is also because, hopefully, we succeed, step by step, to have stopped the sometimes almost ingrained legality of an ever closer union and, in the eyes of some in Brussels, the inevitable march of history towards further federalisation of Europe. And that's really the power, I think. You can also see here in the Chamber that is really a difference that I have seen in recent years, that there is a completely different way of talking about membership of the European Union, without naivety, without dreaming of a blue flag with stars but very pragmatic and practical. Then it's not just about getting out what we put in? We all realize that sometimes you have to do something for the collective of such an association without taking it out right away. So it's not a zero-sum game, but we do reason from a national interest. Again, that brings me back to security and prosperity. So we will have to work hard on that, too. That's an opportunity now. I also note in Europe that there is broad support for this. For many new Heads of Government and Presidents, naivety has really disappeared over the past few years, if I may summarize it so briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u145	I wanted to correct one thing: the handling of the Interior budget is next week, tonight is Kingdom relations. You wanted to ask another question, Mrs Özütok?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u146	I don't know if the Prime Minister is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u147	Yeah, I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u148	A few things I've asked you to stay down, so I'd like to come back to that. Firstly, the information position of the Chamber, namely that requested information does not come to us adequately and insufficiently. Secondly, on the 2017 budget, the General Court said: "Where it is not appropriate for the Prime Minister's consideration to give a detailed insight into the costs of kingship because of the protection of the king's privacy, in our opinion, the considerations made by the Prime Minister should be transparent, so that the decision-making process on the costs of kingship can be reproduced for the audit of the Audit Service and the General Court."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u149	Don't read your whole speech again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u150	I answered that question at the beginning of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u151	Any other questions that haven't been answered, Mrs Özütok?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u152	The other one isn't; she's right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u153	Yes. The Council of State will soon have to decide on the implementation of the climate measures of government policy. They have indicated that they are not adequately equipped to do so. Are there any additional resources available for this? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u154	From the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u155	I really don't know about that last one. I'm not familiar with that. Perhaps that's more something to discuss with Minister Wiebes. Mrs Özütok is right that I have not yet answered the first question. That second question, concerning the Court of Auditors, I answered in detail at the beginning of my reply, I thought, but not the first one. It was about the Chamber's information position. In general, we have talked about this, but I would also like to give him a specific answer by saying that we naturally attach great importance to appropriate forms of relations between the Cabinet and the Chamber. In doing so, you must be able to rely on adequate and timely information. Article 68 of the Constitution is, of course, leading here. In my view, this has also been discussed in detail with the Minister for the Interior recently. I myself, in the cabinet, asked for attention to be given to the question of timeliness, for example in answering questions to Parliament and sharing documents quickly with the Chamber. That doesn't mean it's all wrong, but I can tell it's getting better. It is one of the subjects on which I can assure you that, in the confidence of those telephone conversations, of course, your President is also repeating it with some regularity. That always leads to action for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u156	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I keep saying it: one of the best debates of the year, something for everyone. Piece of history: a breakthrough on Johan van Oldenbarnevelt Mr Van Raak can now retire. For next year I hope for a little more history from Mr Van der Staaij. He's done that in the past few years. I was talking about you, Mr. Van der Staaij, but you were gone. My group is also looking forward to next year's proposals to provide all the palaces with windmills and search the king's house to ensure that he does not have mouse traps or goldfish, because we are micromanaging him, I'll say. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. Oh, I see Lord Van der Staaij; I must not use his name vainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u158	Yes, Mr Van der Staaij is already at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u159	If I am reprimanded that in my historical review I do not go beyond the sixties, I cannot leave it unspoken. Let me say in the direction of Mr Bosma that we have already drawn attention in other debates to the particular fact that 400 years ago the Dordtse Synode also took place and the order was given for a Dutch Bible translation: the State Translation. It's funded by the States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u160	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u161	So I hope I've corrected a small omission with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u162	My historic heart beats faster thanks to you, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u163	Well, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u164	Then the Act of Abandonment. The Prime Minister is, of course, right that there are many moments in our history that you could call the hour zero. But the Act of Abandonment is a historical document, because we said goodbye to the Spanish King and said that if a King does not let me use a modern word, then you should be able to say goodbye to him. This has been codified, although I think Augustine van Hippo has also written something in De civitate Dei which already relates to this, namely that a ruler should have support. Mr. Chairman. To tell you the truth: two small...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u165	Motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u166	...motions. You took the words out of my mouth. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas greater attention may be paid to our national identity;]] [[Whereas it would be good to consider the independence of the Netherlands on an annual basis;]] [[calls on the Government to make an official holiday on 26 July celebrating the signing of the Vertaat van Vertaathe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-III-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u167	I'll just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u168	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mr Van Raak about the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u169	I doubt what I'm gonna do with that motion. I'm from Brabant. When the Republic was founded, Brabant became a Generality Land, a wingewest, a colony. Yes, we look at it differently in Brabant, I say to Mr Bosma. So that makes it difficult for us Brabanders to support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u170	Well, if the rest of your group votes in favour, I would say. But if you can be forgiving towards Johan van Oldenbarnevelt because of the fact that he founded the VOC, then you have such a big heart that you should not only think from your Brabant perspective, I would suggest. I thank Mr Van Raak for supporting my motion. Mr President, I would like to come to the secret services. This is a serious subject, because we must be sure that we can receive this information from the CTIVD, from Mr Brouwer's people, just one-on-one. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there should be no doubt as to the independence of the CTIVD;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that CTIVD reports are automatically made public no later than six weeks after they have been presented to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, even if the Minister of Foreign Affairs has not yet responded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-III-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer and his response to all the questions we have asked. However, I have two motions for resolutions, because it is important that there should be a somewhat more active attitude to the issues contained in them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been regular discussion about the provision of information to the House of Representatives, as media are sometimes previously informed and MPs are not always adequately informed;]] [[considers that the Chamber should always be informed in good time and in good time;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in good time and in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on request, the Prime Minister must state on what grounds he has reached the conclusion that specific expenditure from the King's budget affects the public interest;]] [[having noted that the General Court of Auditors indicated in the 2017 Accounting Survey that the balances made by the Prime Minister should be established in a transparent manner so that proper audit can be carried out by the Audit Service of the Kingdom and the General Court of Auditors;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the General Court, to design the balancing framework in such a way that the costs of kingship are reproducible for the audit by the Audit Office of the Kingdom and the General Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-III-8]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-I-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u173	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Then I will go to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u174	I'm a historian. The Prime Minister is a historian. The king is also a historian. I think Van Oldenbarnevelt is a very important statesman. The Prime Minister thinks Van Oldenbarnevelt is a very important statesman. I wonder if the king agrees. At least it was his predecessor Maurits, who had Johan van Oldenbarnevelt decapitated. I am extremely pleased with the Prime Minister's undertaking that he is going to seriously consider whether we can investigate the remains of this statesman, who are now under the basement in the First Chamber. I would like to give the Prime Minister the reactions of the next of kin: they are very happy with this commitment from the Prime Minister. I look forward to the results and I hope that together we can restore this father of the patriarch and see where his remains have gone. When it comes to leaking, I'm a lot less satisfied with this Prime Minister. He said, "The ship of state always leaks from the top." I think that is an important observation. That means that the group of people who are suspected of leaking when it comes to pieces of Prince's Day is limited. Therefore, the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this year again pieces for Princess Day were leaked even before they were offered to the Chamber;]] [[Considering that, according to the Prime Minister, documents were leaking not officials but politicians;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to open an investigation into the leaking of the documents for Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-III-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u176	Thank you. Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am not a historian, but I enjoyed the historical exchange of views. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I would like to raise a number of points and will do so in the order in which they appear in the Constitution. I mentioned Article 38 in the first term. I'm glad the Prime Minister is talking to the Council of State. With regard to what we are going to arrange as a Chamber for extreme emergencies, I would like to direct the letter through the President to the Bureau and we will hear about it. Then I mentioned Article 41, which deals with the crown domain. I think it would be nice if, when the grant is over, we could use 2021 to close this discussion by opening the crown domain for a longer time. I would like to hear in the Prime Minister's second term what possibilities there are for taking advantage of that subsidy. I was also pleased with his comments on the environment and distance, namely that they are taken into account. We will look at the results. Then there is the motion tabled by Mrs Özütok on the Court of Auditors and the report accompanying the annual report for 2017. There it is said: it must be followable. The Prime Minister's reaction in that report is actually a rewording of the criteria he applies, but for me there is still a difference between being able to follow the balance that has been made and naming the list of criteria. So I would like to hear a little more about that in the response to the motion that has been tabled. Then I mentioned Article 42 on ministerial responsibility. I thank the Prime Minister for his reflection on that. And I totally agree with the attitude he takes, that it should not be too cramped. He also implicitly referred to the information provided by the 2010 Council of State on this subject. I get that, but I think it's also good to keep the finger on the wrist. Given the way he reacted to it, so does he. I also mentioned the precedent. I do not think it should be possible for it to just happen and that it is important to keep up with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u178	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now turn to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u179	Mr. Chairman. I still have some uncertainty about this subsidy for Kroondomain Het Loo. The Prime Minister is talking about a citizen's request for a grant, but if so, should that application be made public and sent to the Chamber on request, including.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If not, the Court cannot check the basis on which that exemption was approved. I would like to make two motions on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the crown domain itself is closed annually from 15 September to 25 December;]] [[noting that one of the conditions for the opening-up of nature reserves is that the area is open to the public 358 days a year;]] [[noting that the crown domain itself does not meet the eligibility conditions for nature reserves;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the crown domain itself no longer qualifies for open-ended subsidies as long as the area is open to the public less than 358 days a year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-I-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u180	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current opening-up grant for the crown domain itself runs until 2021;]] [[noting that the Court is currently unable to verify the grounds on which the exemption from the opening requirement for the crown domain itself was granted;]] [[calls on the Government to give the Chamber full disclosure of the grounds for exemption from the opening requirement of the crown domain itself,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-I-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u181	Finally, Mr President, the question of whether this affects the public interest. We just talked about it. The Prime Minister actually thinks it's a private matter that doesn't affect the public interest. But here a large nature reserve is closed three and a half months a year. Last year, 1,100 large pistols were shot. With the sale of the meat is probably also made money. How much we don't hear. Isn't the Prime Minister still able to answer that? These questions have not yet been answered. All this happens with a subsidy of 8 tonnes a year. It seems to me that this does indeed affect the public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u182	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u183	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u184	Mr. Chairman. I still have a few additions. I can answer a lot of questions in response to the motions, but I have two things in advance. We talked about integrity in the first term. Perhaps, in addition to my reply, I should like to mention that the Minister of the Interior is responsible for, among other things, the national integrity code, the whistleblowers' arrangement, the House for Whistleblowers and, of course, the Public Administration Act. That's what I'm saying in addition to my first term. I have promised Mr Van Raak to see if the term can reach what we were talking about around Van Oldenbarnevelt. I can assure you that the Secretary of State for BZK is committed to informing the Chamber about the outcome of that review at the next turn of the year. Then there's the motions. By means of the motions I also come to a few questions that have been asked. For the motion in part No. 6 (35000-III) I would like to refer to my first-term response. I thought the interruption that took place between Mr Bosma and Mr Van Raak reflected exactly the problem. So I advise against this motion. I hear what is said outside the microphone: you should have agreed! The motion in part No. 7 (35000-III) concerns the CTIVD. That review must be carried out with care. You can't guarantee that this will always work in six weeks. I agree with the idea that it should all be done as soon as possible, but it is not always binding to six weeks. We will carry out the spirit of the motion, but because of the current text I must dissuade her. That does not alter the fact that we agree on the substance. For the motion in part No. 5 (35000-I) is the government's policy to do so, also on the basis of the Constitution. I will also continue to draw colleagues' attention to it, also in connection with this debate. But I cannot help but dissuade the motion because otherwise it would be very strange in relation to Article 68 of the Constitution. In terms of direction, I think we agree, but given the precise text, I must discourage the motion. Let me turn now to the Court of Auditors, which also brings me to the point that Mr Sneller asked for in the first term. The Council of State has said something about compliance with international law and regulation and enforcement of the Crown's unity and government policy. That is what the Council of State is directly referring to, and as far as I am concerned the guidelines are. With that, I would like to discourage the motion. It's really very, very impossible... Well, there's no such thing as "very impossible." It is not possible to create a general framework for things that you have to look at on a case-by-case basis. Audit by auditors and the General Court of Auditors is taking place, so I would like to advise against this motion, also in the light of the advice given by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u185	What motion is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u186	The motion in part No. 5 (35000-I).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u187	I shall then give Mrs Özütok the floor as the first signatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u188	I do not really understand this reaction yet and do not understand why my motion is discouraged, because it is a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u189	No. Article 41 Constitution says: "The King shall establish his House, having regard to the public interest." What is threatening now is that we are going to turn it all around and that we are going to describe exactly when it affects the public interest or not, which are the balancing frameworks and so on. The Council of State was in the picture in 2017 to say what the benchmarks are to do that. The problem that arises here is that you cannot create a general framework for things that you have to look at on a case-by-case basis, other than using the general benchmarks. What is being asked here is a complete balancing framework. This goes far beyond the general benchmarks and cannot be given. That is what really applies to Article 41 of the Constitution. I'd really be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u190	The inconvenience also arises from the fact that we in the Chamber cannot do the audit here, so we must rely on the General Court of Auditors with its constitutional position and on the Audit Service. Now it is the General Court that reports to us: we cannot follow it properly. But the Court of Auditors is the one we have to rely on. How can we do better, so that we do not see another epithet from the Court of Auditors next year with 'we cannot follow it'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u191	Then let me do it differently. Perhaps we should look again at what the Council of State has advised and what the Court of Auditors has said about this in the context of this budget, perhaps in next year's budget. This motion calls for a framework of consideration. Once again, I find that really contrary to Article 41 of the Constitution, but then I do outline how it works now and why it goes well. If I put it all on paper and then it turns out that it is not going well, I will, of course, come up with proposals to improve it. Perhaps I can do that within the framework of the budget that we have here next year. Or rather; we'll see how fast that can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u192	Thank you for your willingness. As far as I am concerned, the annual report on the current year would indeed be a good time for this, so that we can then possibly continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u193	Shall we? I would like to put aside what the Council of State said about this and what the Court of Auditors specifically addressed. My hesitation, serious hesitation, about the balancing framework that Mrs Özütok is suggesting here, is there because of Article 41. Maybe she can hold the motion until then. I could consider that. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u194	It's like the Prime Minister can read my mind. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u195	That is because we debate so well here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u196	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (35000-I, No. 5) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u197	With regard to the motion in part No. 9 (35000-III) I refer to the debate. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The circle in which parts of the documents were distributed was so large that a criminal investigation in this context is not appropriate. I would have the motion in part no. 9 (35000-III) would therefore like to be discouraged. The motion in part No. 6 (35000-I) also raises a question that Mr Sneller asked about. As the motion is before us, I have to discourage it, because it actually deals with the current subsidy scheme. That's how I read the motion. We can no longer open the current subsidy scheme. What you can do, of course, is look at a new subsidy scheme. Then I would still like to discourage the motion, because as we have arranged it now, I am fine with it. Also given the whole historical context, I think that the position of the Oranges with regard to the entire crown domain is now well arranged. If the motion in part No. 6 (35000-I) should be adopted, but it should cover a new subsidy period. Then that is a politically relevant fact which, should there ever be a new grant application, the cabinet that then sits has to take into account, because the motion was then adopted. I now have to rule on the motion as it stands. I dissuade the motion for two reasons. The motion now also seems to relate to the current grant application. That is simply not technically possible, because you cannot revise it during the period. With regard to a new period, I would like to discourage the motion, because I like the way it is going. Anyway, then it is up to the Chamber to advise me whether or not to return to voting behaviour. In short, dissuade, but with an explanation. Once again, if the motion were adopted, it would not be feasible for the existing subsidy scheme. Then I have to read the motion as for another subsidy scheme or grant application. Mr. Chairman. Also the motion in part No. 7 (35000-I) I really wouldn't recommend it. The situation really is that, as mentioned in the decision, there is a similar application of the provincial regulation by the Minister. The Minister has decided to deviate partially from the Regulation and so on, including from the 358-day limit. This is simply an analogous application of a regulation. Against that background, I would like to make the motion in part no. 7 (35000-I).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u198	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate and to the discussion of the general affairs budget and the King's budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u199	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Prime Minister. After the suspension, we're going to swear a new colleague and then we're going to settle the work.
