ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u1	Good evening, everyone. We are, I think, still working on the nice weather, but it is already something after seven, and I suggest that we start this plenary debate. The debate is about the fact that the United States has withdrawn from the nuclear agreement with Iran. Ten speakers have signed up, and they all have four minutes. So I'd say, wet your chest. We begin with Mr Ten Broeke, who also has four minutes and who speaks on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With President Trump's decision to withdraw immediately from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the JCPAO, JCPOA, I'm always a bit struggling with that A and that O, out of the Iran deal, that Iran deal has come into question. That's too bad. It is not clear to what extent the territorial functioning of American sanctions affects our Dutch and European companies. We were always critical of that Iran deal, very critical indeed. I didn't think it was a good deal. Our concerns about access to military facilities are still standing. The short duration of the sunset clause, for only 13 years now, the ballistic missile programme, in which Poland can already be reached, and the unwillingness of many countries to enforce pre-existing UN sanctions on the missile programme, were not addressed under the JCPOA. Since 2015, the launch of the JCPOA, Iran has only been able to increase its influence in the region in a negative way through support to terrorist organisations in the Middle East, such as Hezbollah in Lebanon and Syria, Shiite terror brigades in Iraq and, of course, the woodhis in Yemen. Mr. Chairman. The deal may be lost, but the window of opportunity may not yet be, and I believe that the Netherlands and Europe should do everything in their power to see if that first deal is still to be fixed to prevent a nixen of the deal. The urgency could not be greater. Retreat does not make the region safer. There's a nuclear arms race at risk. The withdrawal does not make the West, primarily the United States, more credible. Iran announced today by the mouth of the supreme leader that it wants to build new centrifuges again. It also came with a terrible statement about Israel as a cancer tumor. Looks like we're back to square one. Iran also placed eight conditions on the European Union. The European Union had to guarantee the supply of oil, not to mention Iran's regional role and not to talk about missiles. I think we should do that in order to fix that deal, also for the benefit of Iran. Once again, the credibility, predictability and security of all of us are at stake. Mr. Chairman. I would like to propose to both Iran and the United States the following matters. I would like a response from both ministers. To Iran, I think we should start by synchronising sanctions with the United States when it comes to blacklisting, for example, people from the Iranian regime, Hezbollah. I asked questions about this earlier this week. We have to go with that blacklisting. That's outside the deal, but I do think it's important to create that environment. Then new sanctions must be imposed on the ballistics programme and the sanctions already in place must be complied with. In any case, these sanctions must be prepared, including as pressure on Iran. Then there must be an automatic snapback of sanctions here in Europe. That's outside the deal. We don't need the U.S. and Iran for it either. We are in no way undermining our signature and, frankly, I am not convinced that it would not be legally possible. I've seen a lot of crazy things with tolerance. In any case, there must be political will. Then head for the U.S. With Cuba we have some experience with a so-called blocking statue. There is the possibility of reintroducing it to Iran as of 4 August. That's what I'm talking about. Suppose the US would impose sanctions on European companies that have made deals in good faith. Take, for example, the difference as to whether 100 aircraft can be delivered by Airbus or Boeing. If Boeing doesn't deliver, it can't be that Airbus can't deliver. It can't be that Airbus is now trying to take over Boeing's order. Somewhere in between, I think there's a solution. I'd like to know what's going on with that blocking statue. It has never been used in European history, but it has a terrifying effect and we need it to be able to use it to save the deal. Mr. Chairman. Those are briefly my questions. The last point is also in the interest of the Dutch business community, which in good faith has made its investments and investment plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u3	I have a question for Mr Ten Broeke. What exactly is his request to the cabinet? Mr Bishop has already tabled a motion last week, which has been held until this debate, in which he says: come up with additional agreements with Iran on the ballistic missile programme and on the no longer financing of terrorist organisations. Does it have the support of the VVD to re-examine these issues with Iran?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u4	Mr Van der Staaij, as always, at every hour of the day, naturally wondered why the applicant for this debate has not already made an advance on the tabling of a motion. I asked myself the same question when I saw your colleague Bishop's motion. But I can actually endorse it from a to z. I didn't do that literally; I might as well have done it. But since the motion has been held, I assume it will be filed again. That does not so much deprive me of the desire but rather of the immediate urgency to submit one of my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u5	That seems to have answered the question sufficiently. I thank Mr Ten Broeke for his contribution. We will go to Mrs Ploumen, who speaks on behalf of the Labour Party. She too has four minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u6	Mr. Chairman. On March 8, International Women's Day, I met Iranian women protesting against the mandatory headscarf in their country. You also know them under the hashtag #GirlsOfRevolutionStreet. Brave women who already take off the headscarf for a few minutes. They deserve the support and solidarity of the free world. But, oh irony, the man who likes to crown himself with the honorary title "leader of the free world" abandons these women and their struggle for freedom. He, President Trump, smothers the change-minded forces in Iran by giving the hardliners a reason to attract the reins further and to distance themselves more from the free world by withdrawing from Iran for the wrong reason. He believes that this agreement is the sausage deal ever. That is why he recently drew a line through the agreement, as far as I am concerned, a decision based on the wrong instincts rather than on sensible insights. In the meantime, Iran isn't gonna let it get away with it either. This made it clear yesterday that the Iranian nuclear programme will be re-enacted. That is why, first of all, two questions to Minister Blok. One, how does the Minister assess Iran's stepping up of that nuclear programme, in the light of the agreements that have been made on the deal? Two, how does he judge that now, in the light of the European Union's efforts to keep the deal whole? Mr. Chairman. Breaking the deal creates uncertainties in three ways: uncertainty in the Middle East, in the world and between allies. The deal finally made a little more relaxation in the Middle East. By unilaterally abandoning that agreement, the tension is increasing again, but the West is also out of order, in the sense that one looks at the Americans as an unreliable partner, with which there is no business to be done. They're losing influence with that, too. Now it is particularly important that the termination of the deal does not cause new unrest in the region and that change-minded forces in Iran, such as women who are fighting against the mandatory headscarf, should not be put under any further pressure. How does the cabinet see that? Can it support this? It also creates uncertainty in the world. Geopolitically speaking, the withdrawal of the Iran deal means that there are no more traditional partners for the wrong reasons. Europe is suddenly on the same side as Russia and China and on the other side than the United States. Foreign trade is under pressure now that European companies can also be sanctioned if they have contacts with Iran. That puts us in a difficult position. Therefore, the following questions. How does the cabinet deal with changing alliances that are now occurring? And to Minister Kaag specifically: how does she see the threats to Dutch companies? What can the Dutch cabinet do to limit the consequences? Finally, Mr President. It also creates uncertainty between allies. Despite express advice and calls from allies, Trump canceled the deal. In doing so, he reiterates his concern for international partners and for their own direction. We think this is another sign that Europe must therefore also pursue its own course. The President of the United States is no longer the leader of the free world. There's a vacancy for that now. Pleasing Trump isn't working. We need to pursue an assertive foreign policy. NRC commentator Caroline de Gruyter wrote about this, and she says it more beautiful than I can say: "Europeans don't like fighting. But our security is at stake (...) So we have to be smart. Don't let us break up. Hardly defend our interests. Not just playing on the Western chessboard, but on multiple boards. (...) The geopolitical game is back. Europe must be able to do it quickly." That is my final question to both ministers in their respective areas of interest: how are they going to ensure that the Netherlands and Europe are able to do so? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u7	Thank you. It is now up to Mrs Karabulut, speaking on behalf of the SP. She's got four minutes, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u8	Mr. Chairman. Once again, the United States is showing itself to be an unreliable partner that is increasingly isolating itself. After the signing of the Paris climate agreement had already been removed and the American Embassy had moved to Jerusalem against the express wishes of the international community, last month the nuclear deal with Iran was torn apart. It is a thick middle finger from Trump to the rest of the world, who wants to stick to the agreement, and also a violation of a Security Council resolution. The SP, my party, has already expressed support for the policies of the Netherlands and the European Union, which are seriously trying to keep this deal going. It would be great if we did, but the odds are not great given the circumstances. That has everything to do with the sanctions announced by the Americans against companies trading with Iran, including European companies, which we know are already struggling to do business. That is completely unacceptable. Such sanctions must be dealt with very firmly. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. What measures have been taken? And which are still in preparation or under consideration? Mr. Chairman. This is, of course, about much more than economic interests. There is an important principle at stake here. Is it up to the US to destroy an agreement that works, makes the world safer and is desired by the vast majority of the international community? The answer is as short as simple: no, that is not up to the United States. I call on the Minister to act on this principle. The American arrogance must end. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The question is what the United States wants now. "A better deal," Trump has repeatedly stated, without becoming very concrete. For this, strong sanctions should be introduced, which will hit the people of Iran very hard. But the Obama government, which negotiated the agreement with Iran, has repeatedly indicated that a better deal was simply not possible. It is therefore also the fear of many analysts that Trump's attitude will mainly contribute to rising tensions and in the blackest scenario war. There are a number of hawks out for war, regime change. Can the Minister respond to this? Does he share the fear of rising tensions in the region, possibly resulting in a war, a new war, another war? And does he reject new, far-reaching economic sanctions against Iran because they affect mainly the population? Already, while the agreement is officially still standing, the dangerous and far-reaching consequences of reckless American action are becoming apparent. Saudi Arabia, the self-appointed archrival of Iran, which is primarily responsible for the destruction of Yemen and its people, has announced that it will want nuclear capacity if Iran re-establishes its nuclear programme. The French attitude contributes to a regional arms race. That must be prevented. Can the Minister respond to this? Does he see these dangerous consequences? Has the Minister been in contact with Saudi Arabia? Mr. Chairman. The first priority must be to maintain the agreement with Iran. But in the context of rising tensions in the region and the arms race that is already going on, we must also look at the longer term. Relevant then is the Middle East plan free of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons. A number of years ago, a conference on such a mass destruction-free zone would be held, but it was postponed and then postponed. There are all kinds of reasons for this, but I would ask the Minister to look closely at this plan. In my view, it is at least partly a response to the many challenges facing the Middle East. It would be good if the plan was revived. I ask the Minister if he sees any possibilities for this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma, who speaks on behalf of the D66 Group and also has four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u10	Mr. Chairman. Trump won the U.S. election just a year and a half ago. My party wasn't happy about that. On the contrary, it was a day when division won. Not only in the United States, but unfortunately, as we see more and more, also in the rest of the world. If we look at what Trump has done to break international agreement after international agreement, then we see that his "America first" policy is basically against all alliances and against virtually every common sense. But this time his decision also directly affects the security of Europe and the Netherlands. It is precisely this decision that requires a united and united European Union. The end of the agreement is unwise, because it weakens the moderate forces in Iran, because it increases the risk of conflicts in the Middle East and because it does not limit the nuclear programme at all. Was the deal perfect? No. Was he historical? Yes. And did the deal do what we asked? Absolutely. As many as ten times, the International Atomic Energy Agency found that Iran complied with its commitments. As far as my group is concerned, the deal is closed and we stand by it. We must also note that American sanctions will in any case have an effect and will make the deal less attractive for Iranian side. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the European Union rightly decided on a protection package for European companies and the granting of loans by the EIB. That decision has, moreover, to be taken one of these days. I'll ask if it's enough. I ask if it is enough, because I see that a company like Peugeot is already withdrawing from the Iranian market. Peugeot isn't the only company. Nor do I find it very strange, I must say, because it no longer has access to the American market, which is one of the sanctions, is very far-reaching for the average company. I'm gonna ask the Foreign Trade Minister if that's enough. Can it estimate to what extent European countermeasures can actually help to maintain our share of the agreement? Is it enough to ensure that Dutch companies and European companies can continue trading with Iran, so that Iran, for its part, keeps to the deal? A short question about the European Investment Bank. I understand that under American pressure, also because he takes a lot of money from the portfolio from the American market, he is not entirely happy to be deployed in Iran. Please explain this to the Minister for Foreign Trade. Mr. Chairman. The extraterritorial effect of the US sanctions is, of course, the main problem. That is also where the solution has to be found. I was pleased to see that France, Germany and Great Britain have acted together today to bring that point to the attention of our American allies. But I would also have liked this to be a European position. I would like to explain whether this is a European position and whether we are here together with the 28's I say it almost nostalgic. Mr. Chairman. As I said, our part of the agreement is still standing. That angle needs to be clear. But that does not relieve us of the duty to address Iran in those areas where it is absolutely necessary. I refer to Iran's recent prospect of enrichment, Khamenei's statements on Israel which are very, very serious, the violation of human rights, the development of a ballistic missile programme and Iran's destabilising actions in the region. I believe that the European Union should continue to address this aggressive political and military role and that we should also consider whether we can actually put measures in place, because they cannot remain unanswered. If we take these measures, perhaps, contrary to what Mr Bishop's motion advocates, I would not be in favour of us trying to ride them in the atomic deal. If we want to keep that atomic deal up, we have to do everything we can to meet our obligations, to see if we can keep it up and to get this issue on the table on the side, apart from that atomic deal. I ask how the ministers look at that. Mr President, I wanted to conclude, but I see Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u11	Yes, and apart from that, you've been through your time. I call Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u12	Mr President, perhaps this will help. Mr. Sjoerdsma says he still wants to save that deal. That's what more people in this room say. Then he tells us what's wrong with the attitude of the United States. That's what a lot of people say. And then he says, "Look, for Iran, at least we shouldn't build in an increase by cycling new things into that deal." But which sweetener is actually in it for the U.S.? They finally walked out of that deal. In the meantime, I think Mr Sjoerdsma is realistic enough to realize that if we want to save this deal, it will start in Washington and not in Tehran.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u13	Yeah, absolutely. First of all, I would almost like to say 'but I hesitate to do so 'that I do not expect much rationality from the Americans. I don't know if the deal can be saved at all. I'm just saying that, because it's a campaign promise from Trump, and he's got those promises. That's what we can find from what we've been trying to find so far, almost blindly. So I wonder if he'll come back to that, no matter how we do it as the European Union. The sweetener would not sit for me in opening this deal to add all kinds of elements, but in addressing those elements he wants to see added. You and I know what they are. It's about a ballistic missile program, it's about the role in the region. You've asked... Mr Ten Broeke has asked me to say through you, Madam President, to see if we can impose sanctions, to see if we can move forward together in these areas. I am not opposed to that, but I am opposed to trying to negotiate that nuclear package with Iran. There's one thing I know for sure. Then Iran runs away from the negotiating table, then we strengthen the non-moderate forces in Iran, and then eventually we stay completely empty-handed. That's not something I'd want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u14	The supreme leader of Iran, I believe, on 24 May or 25 May, I can be wrong for a day. A counter-attack could be to at least not exclude that we would also want improvements in or around the deal. In my first-term proposal, I set out the elements I see Mr Sjoerdsma summarized some of them in order to find those improvements outside the deal, so that there are also sweeteners for Washington. Whether that will prove to be enough is, of course, a second. We're about to hear the government's assessment of the recent visit to Washington. I'm not hopeful, but we have to try everything. What elements would Mr Sjoerdsma want to take over? Not ruling them out is one thing, but I'd like to see it a little more categorical. Then maybe we'll take it one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u15	I think it is a gain that Mr Ten Broeke is now saying that he wants to do that outside the deal, because that is not what Mr Bishop's motion is about. I do not have Mr Bishop's motion quite literally in mind, but I can almost follow it to the last line. But then Mr Bishop's motion says: all this must also be closed in this deal. Mr Ten Broeke rightly asks which sweeteners see D66. I myself mentioned the area of the ballistic missile programme and the area of Iran's destabilising actions in the Middle East. I am very prepared to look at measures. I am not going to talk about what kind of measures that should be now, or that, as the Americans want, should be personal sanctions and that Hezbollah should be on a blacklist. I just want to be a little careful with that, but beyond that deal taking measures in areas where the Americans say they will help, I think it is worth considering. I say, aloud too, that we should not expect too much of that. This retreat is not just about the deal, but also about something really domestic for Trump.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u16	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u17	I see some interesting handles. In the course of this debate, we should look at whether it leads to anything. I would also, of course, like to include the Government's response. I would also like to clarify my point. I was just as positive towards Mr Van der Staaij, who has also come forward in the meantime, about the Bishop motion. I would like to add that I do not rule out doing anything outside the deal. I don't think you should take that off the table in advance. In my proposal, I am primarily focusing on the issue of'snapback', which I have done for the past five years in order to look for it outside the deal and, for example, as with the snapback, to do in my own circle, I would almost like to say. With that sovereignty in its own circle, Mr Van der Staaij now seems to me to have something to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u18	No, first a reaction from the Sjoerdsma on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u19	Yes. I think that can be very short. I consider this to be a profit. It seems to me a sensible step in the interim, so that we do not run straight to a position that we all know will be unacceptable to Iran. I've seen Iran's demands, too. To be quite honest, these are of course not realistic demands. It's just let me call it a political game. That political game is now being played from both sides, from Washington and from Tehran. That makes it difficult for us, but I think we will have to bow neither to the left nor to the right in this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u20	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u21	Mr. Chairman. I realize that sometimes it is a little difficult for those who are following this debate that it is about a motion that has been served in a previous debate, but which has been held up until this debate because it was actually better suited to this. Mr Sjoerdsma indicated that the thrust of that motion was to do so, per se, within the nuclear agreement, which JCPOA. I don't read that in there. I don't think it's meant to be. It is precisely the request to make clear agreements and at the end it says "and to involve those agreements in the JCPOA wherever possible." That seems different to me from what Mr Sjoerdsma just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u22	I don't entirely agree with that. At the moment when you know Mr Van der Staaij in the world of international politics, who also says quite well 'where possible to involve', you leave that option explicitly open and that is actually the wish. I think we should try to settle it outside the agreement first, I think, Mr Ten Broeke. I think that is a sensible position of the VVD. And then you'll have later, if all that's not possible and if it all goes wrong, maybe another fallback position. I'm not excited about that. I think that's a complicated position, too. What I would actually suggest, while we are doing textexegesis on Mr Bishop's motion, is simply to delete that element. Then I will soon provide broad support in this Chamber. I see Mr Van der Staaij smiling. That's going the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u23	Good advice on the way. Let me take a look at Mr Van der Staaij. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u24	Thank you, at least, for the suggestion of the text on the way to broader support, but I note that, unlike Mr Sjoerdsma, it is not literally stated in this motion or intended that it should necessarily take place within the JCPOA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u25	Yeah, but then we have to be clear. Then we don't know what we're voting for. It doesn't say literally, but is it meant to be? That is the question that Mr Van der Staaij has to answer, and I think the answer, in the spirit of the motion, is that it is, of course, meant to be. Then we must also be honest about this: that is what is in store. Otherwise we will be playing a little hide-and-seek behind the text of the motion and I do not know Mr Van der Staaij like that either. Most of the time, it's crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u26	I see another person who wants to interrupt, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u27	Mr President, what I am going to ask for could be covered by a point of order. The motion has been filed and held. This means that all of us, the people sitting here, have been able to learn about this. There are a lot of people watching and listening in, and they are now following a debate on an interpretation of a sentence in a motion, when they do not know what is in that motion. So my request is actually for Mr Van der Staaij to read out that motion so that everyone can take note of it. It now becomes textexegesis of a text we don't know. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u28	You have him with you there, Mr. Van der Staaij? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u29	It is a special procedure, so I would not dare to suggest it, but if I am allowed to repeat a motion by Mr Bishop, I would be happy to do so. "The Chamber, heard the debate; noting that the United States is withdrawing from the nuclear agreement with Iran; Considering the European Union's efforts to maintain the commitments within the JCPOA and to protect trade between Europe and Iran; Whereas the EU would be well advised to recognise that, inter alia, in view of the Iranian ballistic missile programme and the financing of terrorist organisations, a constructive attitude by Iran in the Middle East is desirable; calls on the Government at European level to call for clear agreements with Iran on the non-enlargement of the ballistic missile programme, on the no longer financing of terrorist organisations and on nuclear non-proliferation, even after the JCPOA Agreement expires and to involve these agreements in the JCPOA wherever possible, and to proceed to the order of the day."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u30	Thank you. I agree with Mrs Ploumen that this gives at least some clarification to those who are listening. Apparently this does not apply to Mr Van Rooijen, because he has another question. Go ahead, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u31	It is quite clear to me, but I also had a very clear question, namely whether, through Mr Sjoerdsma, I could ask Mr Van der Staaij to leave perhaps that last rule, i.e. the rule 'and, where possible, involve these agreements with the JCPOA' out of an amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u32	That is also my proposal. I see that Mr Van der Staaij is already working on editor Ten Broeke, so perhaps it is heading in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u33	I have, of course, just given room for reading this motion to clarify and clarify the debate, but we are not going to negotiate a motion here. As far as I am concerned, you can do that outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u34	That's true. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u35	We are going to take a moment to interrupt Mrs Karabulut from the SP on Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u36	Just for my understanding of getting your position sharp. It is clear that all kinds of additional agreements must and can be made with Iran. But if D66's commitment is the same as that of the cabinet, which is to maintain this agreement, then everything must be done. Then that's the order to go beyond that deal to possibly create room for other, additional appointments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u37	I hear very well what Mrs Karabulut says here. I totally agree with her. I am just a little afraid that we as the European Union do not decide what the order is here. That is my assessment, but we are still hearing the answers from the ministers. Anyway, by which I mean that the European measures to enable European companies to do business with Iran and to keep Iran within the deal are not going to work enough. I am simply saying this because I am looking at signals from companies like Peugeot and others that are already withdrawing from the Iranian market because of the concern that I see as understandable: if we continue despite the European Union's compensatory measures, we will lose the American market and we simply cannot afford it. That brings me to the next point. If you need the Americans, and that is what we have to do to at least remove that extraterritorial effect of sanctions, apart from the banking system, which they should keep open to Iran, then we need to do something on the other side. So we can't do that one after the other, no matter how much I'd like to see it, because that would be my favorite route, but we have to do that at the same time. And about this route, this regional role, this ballistic missile program, I say at the same time: don't break the deal now, because then we'll show ourselves to be just as bad a party as the Americans. Once you've signed your autograph, you've signed your autograph. That's what I think. That's why that deal was so historic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u38	I understand you're getting a lot of interruptions, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Could the answers therefore be a little more limited? Mrs Karabulut for a second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u39	I thank Mr Sjoerdsma for this clear answer. When we talk about Iran's bad role in the region, Iran is, of course, not the only player in the region; I call Saudi Arabia and the United States itself but it would not be a much more balanced approach if we were to focus on the nuclear-free zone in the Middle East that I have proposed, and if we took the initiative to make agreements with several countries, so that they would also become a little more realistic and feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u40	I think Mrs Karabulut knows that when it comes to nuclear disarmament, the SP and D66 are pulling at the same end of the rope. So I can only encourage a conference on nuclear disarmament in the Middle East. I'd like to place a comma. That comma is something that both you and I do not like: I consider the opportunity to do so in this context, where we have to keep the deal that we have already concluded very small. You were just talking about giving priority to something. If I have to choose between such a conference and keep this deal going, then I choose to keep this deal going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u41	Last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u42	Sure, but it was the second step, the next step. Knowing that you need Iran, as well as the US and all other countries, to make progress in the Middle East, wouldn't a more logical and feasible next step be to urge multiple parties to stop their bad role in the region and/or stop what everyone doesn't want, namely nuclear weapons? Shouldn't we all bet on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u43	I agree with that, but I have to say, and this morning we also had general discussions on arms exports, that we are all quite clear about Saudi Arabia, for example. If you look at the bad role Saudi Arabia plays in the region, I think we really need to be careful not to lose sight of what is happening there with our strictness towards Iran, and not, as a secondary side effect, to ensure that the balance in the region is lifted. But I also note, and I think it was Minister Blok who said this, that the reading on Iran among European allies is somewhat unanimous and that in Saudi Arabia a France and a Great Britain think otherwise. I would love to see that that was different, but I do not see the support for it at the moment. I'd like to see that support. I say straight away to the two ministers: work on this, do what you can do about it. But I do not immediately see that as a very viable follow-up, and that also saddens me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u44	No, Mrs. Karabulut, there's been plenty of room. You've been through your speaking time, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Did you finally be able to say what you wanted to say in all the interruptions, or do you have one sentence left?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u45	Mr President, thank you for your support. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. He also has four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I feel now Mr Van der Staaij's support programme. It is, of course, going to table an amended Bishop motion. The Chamber is eagerly looking forward to that. The essence of that one sentence, of which we are all anxious to see whether it is still in it, is of course that we are going to add something to the nuclear deal with Iran that had not been added to it before. In that sense it is changing the rules of the game during the game and that would affect the rest of the motion. Madam President. Our Prime Minister has called the US Government's decision to cancel the nuclear deal rude. That's as unusual a qualification as it is justified. One of the consequences of this rude decision, Mr Ploumen, and I also thought Mr Sjoerdsma talked about it, is that it affects internal political relations in Iran, the relationship between what we often call moderates and conservatives or innovators and conservatives. That's what you hear almost every day now when you listen to the utterances of the supreme religious leader, who says, you know, I've always told you, those Americans can't be trusted. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister how he sees it. Does he indeed see that the withdrawal of that deal by the United States, the conservative forces in Iran, mentioned Mrs Ploumen there as a few examples of what is going on and, as it were, gives new support? With regard to the termination of the nuclear agreement, we see a united Europe. I think it's good to say that, too. We often talk about it in terms of: well, Europe does not have a common foreign policy. If there is a situation in which we have shown that there is, then it is the response to the termination of the nuclear deal. That's good. The question to the Minister is, of course,: will this unity continue to exist? For example, we hear the Lithuanian Foreign Minister say: we think the Iran deal is very useful, but it should not be at the expense of the transatlantic relationship. How does the Minister see the possibility of maintaining that closed European front? And what is that closed European front going to do in the near future? Then we will also be dealing with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. What are we really going to do, as Europe, to ensure that the extraterritorial effects of the US sanctions, which we do not want, are not going to lead companies to withdraw their investments? Mr Sjoerdsma mentioned the example of Citroën and Peugeot factories. When we were in Iran with the parliamentary delegation, we spoke to many companies for which only the uncertainty about the sanctions, the possible sanctions, so not even the sanctions themselves, but the uncertainty about them was a reason to be very cautious with new investments. How can we ensure that these sanctions do not act as a deterrent to these investments? And how do we prevent them from having an effect on the people of Iran that we do not want? What can we do in concrete terms? I wanted to leave it at that, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u48	Well, that's convenient, because you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u49	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u50	Then we're ready for the main act, if I understand correctly. I call Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP Group. You too have four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't realize I was going into this debate with such a mortgage. Mr. Chairman. President Trump's decisions are making a lot of international noise. I thought it was special, by the way, what Mr Sjoerdsma said tonight. At first the criticism of Trump was that he is so incredibly unpredictable, while he is now actually fulfilling all his election promises. That actually makes it a lot more predictable than was first assumed. The cabinet is disappointed about Trump's decision, because the deal worked on balance. No matter how you look at it, we are less negative about it than many other groups in this Chamber in our first reaction, as we have been for a while now, I think the question is: how far ahead? And what can we do with the justified criticism of the deal that I think has been highlighted again recently? Firstly, I am thinking of financing terrorist groups outside the JCPOA agreements: Hezbollah in Lebanon, the woodhis in Yemen, groups in Iraq. This does not respect Iran's commitment to play a constructive role in the region. This is reflected in Khamenei's terrifying statement about the cancer of Israel, which should disappear from the Middle East. That also underlines the unreliability of Iran's attitude. The second point is the ballistic missile programme. That's completely outside the atomic agreement. Is it true that Iran has seen major steps in recent years with regard to the ballistic missile programme? And how threatening is this? Thirdly, nuclear non-proliferation is not guaranteed after the agreements expire. In particular, the US President has put that horizon clause under severe criticism. I would like to ask the Minister: does he not also have a point here? Fourthly, it is unclear whether the International Atomic Energy Agency is really capable of fully verifying compliance with the agreements with Iran. Mr. Chairman. The atomic agreement has major shortcomings, which we should not sweep under the carpet. As far as the SGP is concerned, the EU should not only work to maintain the current agreements and protect trade between Europe and Iran. Tightening should be the first priority, so that an Iranian nuclear weapon is not postponed but adjusted. My final question to the Minister perhaps I can ask it for a moment; then I have finished my story as well: whether he would like to argue within the EU for binding agreements with Iran on the aforementioned defects, and then there will be another sentence that was already so beautiful in the motion, which wants to involve the JCPOA where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u52	I've been monitoring the sequence of the interrupting microphone. The first interruption is for Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u53	I have the impression that the longer Mr Van der Staaij speaks, the less support he will get for his motion. Anyway, we'll see about that in the vote. Do Mr Van der Staaij and the SGP recognise that the atomic deal works?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u54	The government also states that it works on balance. Obviously, restrictions have been observed by Iran, but whether it works, even in the longer term, is but the demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u55	But very sharp: the cabinet regrets the American decision. The JCPOA is subjecting Iran to an unprecedented inspection regime. The Atomic Energy Agency has concluded ten times that they comply with the agreements. In other words, the Middle East and the world have become a bit safer. So my question is again: does Mr Van der Staaij recognise this? And if he acknowledges this, and then wants to make additional arrangements to reduce Iran's bad role in the region, where I can imagine everything, will we do so with other countries, such as Saudi Arabia and other allies of the West, who also play a bad role and who also finance jihadists?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u56	I asked the Minister to what extent we can indeed rely on 100% waterproof verification. There are doubts about that, too. Apart from that, it is undoubtedly possible that these agreements have also had positive effects, but the shortcomings are also enormous. Meanwhile, Iran also has the opportunity to become economically stronger by the abolition of sanctions. Then there is the question: if these agreements end, if the nuclear deal ends, then what are the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u57	A brief response, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u58	I find it really shocking that Mr Van der Staaij actually sees that the world is becoming safer, but does not want to believe that completely, because it concerns Iran. The scenario now before us is that further sanctions and the blowing up of the agreement could lead to an even greater conflict in the Middle East. Of this, Mr Van der Staaij says: Iran has a very bad role to play. He wants to take sanctions. Fine. Then my second question to Mr Van der Staaij was: will we do so for Saudi Arabia, a country that also has a bad role in the region, and for other allies, including the US itself, who also contribute in a certain way to instability in the region? Then you'll be working on progress in a broad way and maybe you'll be able to get all the countries along. But with this one-sided focus on Iran, the American hawks immediately come to my head: blowing up, imposing sanctions and then triggering a conflict. To be honest, this seems to me to be a disaster for security in the region, and also for our own security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u59	I note that Mrs Karabulut is always extremely keen in identifying all kinds of shortcomings in international politics, but at this point the world really has become much safer through that agreement. So she is actually very positive and optimistic about that. I would say that I have taken up some of the critical point that characterises Mrs Karabulut in many debates, and I have said that there are some positive points to discover, but the shortcomings are also considerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u60	Mrs Karabulut, you have had the floor, I would say. Mr Van der Staaij has also responded in my opinion. I call Mr Sjoerdsma for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u61	I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij about his intentions, particularly with regard to that motion. Mr Van der Staaij first said that he was opposed to this agreement, and when the agreement did not go through, at least when the Americans withdrew their signature, his group was pleased. I found Mr Van der Staaij's quote... At least he was not disappointed; let me put it this way. Mr Van der Staaij, or Mr Van der Staaij's colleague, would like to make it clear in the motion that we are going to take all kinds of measures in this agreement. Now my question to Mr Van der Staaij is: does he want to make the agreement better, or does he want to blow it up permanently?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u62	What is the intention of the motion? That's important. It's a fair question. Do you have to agree with everything I've put forward in order to support such a motion? I don't think so. You can say: I like the deal, but it can always be better. That could be a position. That could be Mr Sjoerdsma's position. Or you could say: we don't think it's good enough and think it can go from "not good" to "good." In fact, it doesn't really matter what your political position is. The practical political question is: what do you think should happen now? Of that, I would say: no matter how you judge what lies ahead, see where improvements are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u63	Then I'm gonna make it a little sharper. Just with Mr Ten Broeke, I also had the debate on what order you are in. I prefer the order: first, the things that are not contained in the agreement. I refer to the ballistic missile programme and the role in the region outside the agreement to try to combat, solve, eliminate and look at the option of folding it into the atomic deal only if it does not succeed. I am now asking for the route that Mr Van der Staaij is proposing. Can it be seen separately from the deal first? Will Mr Van der Staaij only then fold it into the deal? Or does it have to be now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u64	I believe that the wording of the motion offers exactly the scope that Mr Sjoerdsma is now putting forward. It can be fine out there, besides that. But if you say "let's be, it's an assessment and in fact the whole thing is completely open again," then it's also fine to include it, to make it part of it. As far as I'm concerned, it's no problem to shape it outside. Let us not make "in" or "out" a sacred point. The point is that there are agreements that need to be settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u65	That seems to be enough for Mr Sjoerdsma. I call Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u66	Mr Van der Staaij says that this can be done as far as I am concerned. But I think it's kind of essential how we're gonna handle it: either within the deal or separately from the deal. I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij whether he agrees. Isn't it very risky or even dangerous if big world players after years of negotiation... This is separate from what you think of the outcome. But three years have been negotiated at the highest level and an agreement has finally been reached. And then there is one person who says: on second thought, I do not think the agreement is very good. Then Mr Van der Staaij says: I actually didn't like it either, so maybe now we can try to ride some other things in it. I would think that would be bad for the reliability and predictability of international relations. So that's unrelated to what you think of the deal. In other words, it matters very much to what the Bishop motion or Mr Van der Staaij asks, whether you say "it must be in that deal" or "it can be in that deal," or whether you say "no, it must not be in that deal; it must be kept out of it." I hope my question to Mr Van der Staaij is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u67	It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u68	The question is clear. The answer can also be short and clear. The motion doesn't say it has to be in that deal. She does say, "Don't rule it out if the course of things is such that it eventually becomes part of that deal." So we don't have to, but we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u69	But does Mr Van der Staaij not agree with me that, as I have just said, it is risky to break an agreement that, after years of negotiation, has been concluded by some of the most powerful countries in the world, the most powerful players on the world stage, because one of the parties is leaving? Isn't that in itself, regardless of what you think of the deal, bad for predictability and therefore the consistency of international relations? Or does Mr Van der Staaij disagree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u70	"Pacta sunt servanda" is an old expression that means that you have to be able to rely on each other for appointments. I get that. That is why, unlike Mr Sjoerdsma, I did not say that I was "enjoyed" but expressed the hope that the actual situation that arose could at least lead to something better. Nor have I ever argued in this House to call it quits, or promised my constituents that we would make a strong effort to do so. However, I have argued in favour of making additional agreements. No matter how you look at it, the reality is that everything is under discussion again because America has abandoned the case. So I think it's okay to say first of all: do it next to that. This route is obvious, given its sensitivity to European countries and Iran, and the reliability of agreements. But if the actual situation is that everything is now open, it does not exclude it. Because then you move on to the other side and then you actually block the possibilities for a solution that everyone could possibly agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u71	A brief final response from Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u72	If Mr Van der Staaij agrees with me that there are treaties to be implemented, that is what I heard him say, fortunately, although in Latin but quite reasonable to follow, then I also think that in principle you should not reward the fact that one of the parties is walking away because that party does not want to respect the agreements made. That may be the danger if we change the rules of the game during the game, and that is what the Bishop's motion does to my best observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u73	Mr Van der Staaij, I would like to look at Mr Van Rooijen for a moment, because I have the impression that he also wants to interrupt on this very point. Then perhaps you can answer those questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u75	Yeah? Then you'll join me at once, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u76	My question was actually the same as Mr Van Ojik's, so I do not need to repeat it. But behind that was the question I'm asking now. Mr Van der Staaij says that a new reality has emerged from the withdrawal of America. After long negotiations with major world powers, the previous American president signed a deal. Then it's a done deal. What do you think of his successor, even though he called for everything before the elections, just a moment later, with all the consequences of that, not least for the Iranian people, mostly young, who have lost hope for a future, and for reformers, who are also getting a blow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u77	I find it difficult in general and a disadvantage to come back to made agreements. On the other hand, America is a democracy. You're not bound to a certain arrangement for up to days that you made somewhere if that appointment was the bet. If a great political deal had been made here in the Netherlands to raise the AOW age but 50PLUS would achieve a huge sounding election victory, that could also be changed, with all the disadvantages of that. That's how it goes. So there is always a certain tension between the fact that we have a democratic process in which voters are allowed to say whether they are satisfied with what has happened or not, and that we can stick to agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u78	As Mr van der Staaij himself says, this has indeed been said in the election campaign. But that happened pretty soon after that deal was closed. I understand that many years later, or two presidents later, you look at it again with all the new information about Iran's behaviour and other partners. But this just happened to chop up the last president of America, who was also elected. Because it is clear: it has something to do with America's domestic policy, it has something to do with what one finds of Iran in America and it has something to do with your predecessor taking away the signature so soon after you got the job yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u79	We can all agree on what we think, but in the end we have to find that there is also criticism, and not just of the American President. I also refer, for example, to the Clingendael Alerts: Five reasons why the Iran nuclear deal has to go. There is also serious criticism of what is not arranged at the moment. So I would find it much more constructive to ask: how can we find an adequate response to these serious concerns, which have now come up again in all intensity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u80	A final reaction from Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u81	I'll come back to that later. We can find each other in that, but we're talking about the deal ourselves. I repeat my question as to whether the last sentence in your motion could lead to a review. That is very important for the clarity of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u82	Specifically. I think we should also see what the debate can do. You have to do something with that. If I see that that sentence is the stone of offence, while I think that the effort would be supported in a broader way, I would be happy to remove that phrase in the end. In this way we say above all what the material commitment is at these important points of battle. If that could be a fruitful effect or result of this exchange of views, I am prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u83	This immediately calls for an interruption by Mr Ten Broeke. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u84	As the applicant for this debate and because I was too lazy to make a motion myself, let me say that it is wonderful that Mr Van der Staaij is prepared to amend a motion which has already been tabled in such a way that it can perhaps count on a majority in this Chamber. I would add that, in my view, we can remove this very easily, because of course, you will never get off the table the option that there may also be changes in the deal if both parties so wish. After all, the other side is asking for this. But this is fine. If Mr Van der Staaij comes up with these adjustments, it may well be possible to count on a large majority in this Chamber in the second term. I've had good experiences with motions this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u85	You didn't have any other cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u86	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u87	Then Mr Van der Staaij concludes his speech and we will continue with Mr De Roon of the PVV. I don't have to say it's four minutes, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u88	Thank you, Mr President. The European Union is still trying to maintain the nuclear agreement with Iran by offering a package of incentives. My first question to the Minister is whether there is any prospect of that package. What's in there or what's in there? What can the Minister tell us about that? I cannot imagine what package could be put on the table by the European Union in order to compensate for the restrictions imposed by the US sanctions. I am referring in particular to restrictions on Iran's access to oil markets and the international financial system. I would also ask the Minister whether the European Commission is still going to introduce the so-called 'blocking statute' legislation. If so, I ask the Minister what influence the Netherlands can still exert on this. I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. The Iranian Foreign Minister recently said that Europe must make up for the losses caused by the American sanctions. Khamenei added a few days later that European efforts are far from sufficient to justify a continuation of the agreement. In addition, the Iranians on the Natanz nuclear site have started to set up a production line for the centrifuges. This can only mean that Iran intends to exceed the allowed maximum of 5% of what is needed to create a nuclear weapon. They have also informed the International Atomic Energy Agency that they are going to increase Iran's capacity to enrich uranium. What is also important is that there are European countries that believe that the maintenance of a nuclear deal should not be at the expense of Europe's relationship with the US. So there is a danger of a rift in European unity. My question to the Minister is whether he can see that. I'd like to hear a response from him. The PVV was certainly not a fan of that nuclear agreement and does not want our relationship with the US to be damaged by attempts to maintain that agreement. Because that relationship is much and much more important than anything. What can the Minister tell us about his recent conversation with his American colleague, Mr Pompeo? Has it been promised that European companies will be exempted from sanctions or not? My impression is that the European Union is in the middle of a rear-guard fight. I've got a visual on the Interrupt Microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u89	I think there is an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u90	It's kind of like the upside-down world now, isn't it? Mr De Roon says that we should above all not damage the relationship with the United States, while the United States unilaterally cancels a deal that endangers our security. The only way we can keep this deal going, through our companies, is to sanction it. I would like to ask Mr De Roon whether he is friendly or perhaps less friendly about the intention of the United States and whether he agrees with me that in this case it is the United States that is putting pressure on the relationship and not the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u91	I think the intention of the United States is particularly sensible, because it is a deal that is not right. In fact, everyone here agrees on that. And if I were President of the United States and I were faced with a deal from my predecessor that I really don't think is right, then I would also like to get rid of it as soon as possible. To be honest, I think it's kind of stupid when you expect the United States to stick to that deal. After all, it was already known that there were flaws. It was known that Obama only signed that deal because he wanted to get another foreign policy point. It was also known that Obama did not go to Congress with that deal because he knew that the political support in Congress was lacking for that deal. Yeah, so you could predict, given the promises of the current American president in election time, that it wouldn't end well. So I find it rather naive to say that that relationship was damaged by the Americans. No, you could have anticipated that this was going to happen, so you should have set up for that. The relationship between Europe and the US is much more important than anything else. We must stick to that relationship and not make fools' promises to Iran.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u92	Mr De Roon takes the floor foolishly. Of course, I would never want to put that back in this way, but I think it is a bit rude of Mr De Roon that he treats the Dutch and European interests in this way. He seems to want to serve every interest: the American interest, sometimes the Russian interest, then perhaps an Israeli interest; I do not know exactly where the money comes from with Mr De Roon. But still, this is about our interests, Mr. De Roon. This is about our safety. That you want to hide behind everything and everything, I believe, but I'm just asking why you're flying with all the winds. I ask you why you always seem to serve the foreign interest, rather than just plain Dutch and European interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u93	The PVV does nothing but serve the Dutch interest. That is what we stand for and it must stand for. Just like Trump says "America first," I say "Netherlands first." And 'The Netherlands first' also applies to this treaty, because it is not right. It's not in our best interest. It has to be passed through the shredder. There's got to be a better deal... willingly or willingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u94	Last remark by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u95	If Mr De Roon puts it that way, I may have to conclude something else. Then it is indeed not the Netherlands first, as Mr De Roon says, but then the PVV says "Saudi Arabia first." Of course it's okay, but I'm really noticing it. I would like to say once again: Mr De Roon, if you want to represent the Netherlands, the Dutch interest and values, think again about what you are saying rather than just blowing with Trump's wind, with Netanyahu's wind and with Putin's wind. Think about our own safety. This is about our safety. The Dutch voters will blame you for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u96	This is D66's usual crap in the field of foreign affairs. We do not support the interests of Saudi Arabia. In fact, if Saudi Arabia were to be involved in the development of nuclear weapons, they would have to be dealt with in the same way. There's no indication of that. So you don't have to compare Saudi Arabia to Iran at all. Hooray, Iran is targeting nuclear weapons, weapons of mass destruction and Saudi Arabia is not. That doesn't mean Saudi Arabia is our friend. You might know that a long time ago if you had followed our debates, but at the moment that deal with Iran, which is not good in many respects, everyone here has said so. That's not a good deal, not even for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u97	Mr. De Roon, there are more interruptions. Let me take a look, because Mrs Ploumen was a little earlier, but Mr Van Rooijen... I don't want to provoke, so Mrs Ploumen, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u98	I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma's conclusion: for the PVV, the 'Saudi Arabia first'. I don't know what weapons they use in Yemen, but they do lead to mass destruction. Mr De Roon would like to be a man of one piece, a man of a man, a word of a word. Look at this deal. It was made with the support of the Security Council, of the EU Member States, with the allies. Hard, clear agreements have been made, which are being respected. Nevertheless, Mr De Roon is defending blowing up that deal. Where should this go, even in the Dutch interest, if every country can simply withdraw for no reason at all? Then we, the voters of the PVV, of the PvdA and all of us, are outlawed. Then the Dutch citizens will not be protected. Mr De Roon is making an incomprehensible turn. I ask him again: why does he not have the interest of Dutch citizens and of the safety of the Netherlands in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u99	All kinds of countries and negotiators have signed a deal under which Mr Obama finally signed it. I can see how sad it is that it's going to happen. But it's also sad when you come up with such a worthless deal after 12 years of negotiation, when you put such a worthless deal on the table and sign it, a deal that just sucks. That's bad if you do that. Then it's better to turn halfway around than go astray. So Trump is absolutely right to say that this deal is no good, I don't see how it's gonna be improved, out with that thing, and I'm getting out. He has every right to do that. You cannot deny that he has every right to do so. Not only does he have every right to do so, but he also has the full support of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u100	President Trump isn't here behind the chair, he's Raymond the Roon. Surely he should be aware of the importance of the Netherlands, of the safety of Dutch citizens? Mr President, I no longer have a question, but I note that he is abandoning Dutch citizens because he is removing the security fence around us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u101	The safety fence that Mrs Ploumen is referring to is no good. That's a rickety fence. That's not gonna do you any good after all. There's gotta be a better fence. Trump goes for that better fence, along with his Secretary of State Pompeo. They have drawn up a list of 12 requirements that a new deal must meet. Basic requirements they call them. It's a beautiful list. I'm going to ask the Minister how he feels about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u102	Mr Van Rooijen has the floor for another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u103	Mr De Roon actually says: America has made a decision, but we think the relationship with America is so important that the deal, which we already thought was bad, should be dismissed. But it could be The Netherlands and the Prime Minister can agree that we need to maintain a good relationship with America. I agree with you that we should do that. My group agrees with that. That's not contrary to the deal, which by the way, you're playing down with "sneu" and "success from the previous president"? I think that's rather... Well, I'm gonna leave my point on that. It is true that America has the right to do something or not to do anything. But if you think the relationship with America is important, doesn't that mean that the deal has to be black and white? I don't understand. Iran is on our continent, far from America. We must also support the security of Europe and our citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u104	We should definitely back that up. That has to be done by a better deal that needs to be made. In that we simply have to support the United States. We should not ride the United States in the pursuit of a better deal. We just have to support them. I told you, that thing that's lying there right now is a rickety fence. That won't do us any good. Now you can say that we feel safe behind that rickety fence, but that's short-lived, I predict. I'm telling you, Trump's not the only one who gets out. Iran is going to say: we have no use for this deal without the United States, so we will stop. In my opinion, that deal is already off the table. That is why I have just said: the EU is in the middle of a rearguard fight, a sham fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u105	I can actually hear Mr De Roon say something else. He actually says: America has a number of proposals for a better deal. So am I hearing him say he actually wants a deal? Given the deal, but above all in other areas, you can talk to each other to see how additional negotiations and discussions can lead to a result. Then this deal doesn't have to be off the table first, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u106	This deal is already off the table in my opinion. You'll talk about it. Others in this Chamber would also like that deal to remain on the table, but in my opinion it will soon turn out to be just off the table and we do not have to talk about it at all. It's about the new future, the future ahead of us, in which Mr. Trump is going to negotiate a better package. That is the package of the twelve demands which I am about to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u107	I also see an interruption by Mr Van Ojik. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u108	I can't help it. I'm gonna try it one more time. We have just discussed the principle that, if you conclude an international treaty, it would be good to respect that treaty. It was Mr Van der Staaij who said that. So whether Mr. De Roon or Mr. Wilders or Mr. Trump thinks it might have been different, the fact that an international treaty has been concluded, you might think that there is a certain obligation on signatories and supporters to respect those agreements. Does Mr De Roon agree with me that such a thing exists in the international community?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u109	If that thing that's signed isn't right, of course you're not supposed to stick to it. Then it is even your duty to your constituents, to your people and to your country to say: we are not going to keep that agreement. If you signed that thing, you have to stick to it, so you ask me. Yeah, Obama should stick to it, which makes sense. But Obama is no longer at the helm. There is now someone at the helm who has a different view of this situation and who says: it is a bad deal, away with it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u110	I hope that, in future, it will not depend on individual people such as the US President or a representative of the PVV whether agreements made internationally should generally be respected. I therefore ask Mr De Roon whether he agrees with me that the starting point should be the following. If we say to the Netherlands, to the European Union, to the United States or to Iran that we have agreed to this and if there is no reason to believe that the agreements made are being violated, what is the case here too, would it not be a good starting point for international relations to keep them? I might ask for the familiar way, but despite all kinds of differences of opinion that you can have about anything, it goes quite far when you say as a party: well, at the moment I don't like it anymore, I just get my signature out under that appointment. Because then we won't be able to make any more agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u111	The point is clear, I think. Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u112	You know, what has been lacking on the American side in this deal is a sound and sound democratic legitimacy. Obama knew that. That's why he signed the thing himself instead of putting it before the U.S. Congress. He knew that there was insufficient support for this treaty. That's where the misery begins, at least, you see it as misery. But that's how the story started. So that means that Obama's signature underneath actually doesn't mean anything anymore when the next president says, "I'm gonna cross that line." 'Cause that's just what he's authorized to do. Nor has it been called out of the American Congress: you should not have done that, we want you to take it back and we want that treaty to stay alive. This is still not how the situation in America is. So it is not wise to count on you, with such a narrow democratic legitimacy, to deal with a treaty and with an adversary who will always abide by it. It is wise to anticipate and understand that the thing is about to fall over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u113	Obviously. Mr Van Ojik's last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u114	Mr De Roon explains to me how it works in the United States. But what he's doing and what I'm calling him on is saying that it doesn't matter if you made an agreement with a group of countries or with the international community that everyone signed. It doesn't matter that everyone then abides by those agreements. At the moment when someone says they don't feel like it anymore, that signature can be removed and Mr De Roon agrees. This therefore undermines any way of making international agreements on how countries interact with each other. That is the implication of what Mr De Roon says here, defends and even advocates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u115	If our Prime Minister, Rutte, were to sign a deal with another country, he would not have the authority at all, but what if a Prime Minister of GroenLinks and then a Prime Minister of GroenLinks came to power who did not agree at all with that deal, I know what would happen very quickly: strike through. So you can say whatever you want, but this way it's a very shaky base and you shouldn't look weird when that deal falls over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u116	Clear. The fact that the world community makes agreements and then one of the largest and most powerful countries withdraws from them is not a problem for the PVV. The fact that the nuclear deal works with Iran, which has been found ten times that the world has become safer and that Iran does not have nuclear weapons, is very annoying to Mr De Roon. Stay with the supporters. Mr De Roon, Wilders, Mr Bolton, who had close links with terrorist organisations in Iran. The Saudi Crown Prince, who supports and arms jihadists in the Middle East and who very much wants war with Iran. And Mr. Trump, who, well, does his own thing. Is that what the PVV wants? War with Iran?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u117	Mrs Karabulut soon sees anyone who disagrees with her as a war hitter. That's bullshit, of course. But I hear Mrs Karabulut say: that deal works. Well, that deal doesn't work. And do you know why that deal works badly? Because there are insufficient control possibilities. The points on which it has been agreed that there may be a check-up, yes, there has been a check-up. And you are right: it turns out that Iran did not break the deal there. But of course what matters is that you need to be able to check everywhere in Iran that nuclear weapons are not being worked on, especially on military sites. That is precisely one of the points of the twelve-point programme that the United States is now presenting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u118	This is anything but an answer to my question. The nuclear deal's been made. The International Atomic Energy Agency has checked ten times and established ten times with one of the strictest sanction regimes that it operates. You can deny that, all of it. But now for the alternative: a new conflict in the Middle East, a hardening of relations with Iran, more severe sanctions which affect the Iranian people, who are no longer allowed to enter America, and who support the mullahs and the conservative forces. Apparently that is what the PVV stands for: insecurity in Iran, insecurity in the Middle East, nuclear weapons development..................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u119	So the deal doesn't work. Unlike what Mrs Karabulut says, he doesn't work, because he doesn't work well. Because you can't check everywhere you should. So that means that that deal isn't really of any use to you when it comes to how it works. So it's a dysfunctional deal. And that's why it has to go. All this does not mean everything Mrs Karabulut has put forward here. We are not at all on the side of Saudi Arabia or any other party. We just want a good deal. The U.S. is leading the way. We simply have to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u120	I think the answer to the interruptions is clear. You still have time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u121	Yeah, I'm gonna use that, too, Mr. Chairman. The PVV seems better to distance itself from that nuclear agreement and to side with the United States, whether you like it or not. A European alleyway is unlikely and, by the way, not attractive to Iran at all. I understand that our Prime Minister is going to travel to the United States on 2 July. I should like to know whether the Foreign Minister is going to join us and whether he is going to talk to his American colleague again. In any case, there is that package of twelve American basic requirements that a good deal with Iran should meet. I assume the Minister knows those 12 basic requirements. I think it's very nice, good demands. They're very good demands. There isn't one bee that I say isn't right or "shouldn't be." But if the Foreign Minister says here that he does see one that he would not be able to endorse, I would be glad to hear it. So my question is: does the Dutch Government support these twelve basic requirements or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u122	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I am looking at Mr Van Rooijen for the 50PLUS group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u123	Mr. Chairman. The decision to cancel the Iran deal we are discussing here was taken a month ago. Gradually, the consequences are beginning to emerge. However, much remains unclear. That is why my contribution to this debate will mainly consist of a number of questions to the ministers. Recently, US Secretary of State Pompeo said that the US will punish Iran with the worst sanctions ever. That sounds like a new piece of fire and fury, of which we know the value by now, but does the Minister have any information that indicates that the Americans are actually planning to do so? And what's his reaction to that? What concrete measures has the European Union taken to enable European companies to continue doing business with Iran without being affected by the effects of US sanctions? And are they feasible and effective? According to some experts, application of the so-called blocking status for companies is worse than good. There's now an update on that blocking statue. The EIB's lending mandate is involved. Will the Minister respond to that? And how does he assess the decision taken by a number of large French companies, Mr Peugeot, has already been mentioned, but it is also Total, with great interests, and Airbus, to break ties with Iran, forced, given the great interests of those companies in America? Does the Minister have any signals that Dutch companies are considering this or have already done so? Meanwhile, Iran has announced to intensify uranium enrichment. This is not in itself a breach of the agreement, but it is seen as a means of pressure towards the European Union to refrain from any tightening up of the agreement to meet the Americans. Does the Minister share that interpretation? And are the reports correct that Eastern European EU Member States do not see any advantage in a tough confrontation with the Americans? That was mentioned before. What is the Minister's view of the possibility that Iran will soon give up and withdraw from the agreement? What does the Minister think it will take to prevent that? Does he think that's feasible? What are Iran's demands? And how does the Minister weigh up President Trump's remark that there should also be monitoring of Iran's development of ballistics? Does he expect that restrictions and restrictions on financial support to groups such as Hezbollah could perhaps lead the Americans to change their minds? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS notes that we read very little and hear very little about the attitude of China and Russia on this issue. Is there any consultation with those important partners in the agreement? And if so, how do both countries stand up to this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few comments on the relationship between Europe and the United States. I start with a quote: "President Trump's politics are based on unsubstantiated campaign promises, the urge to reverse his predecessors' policies and an aversion to multilateral agreements. His ad hoc policy and impulsive approach to national security issues are short-sighted and dangerous because allies and partners are uncertain about the strategy and objectives of the United States." These are words from John Brennan, who first met an American president in 1990 as an employee of the CIA and who was director of the CIA from 2013 to 2017. The United States is increasingly showing itself on a hard, rigid side. And when the time comes, President Trump not only takes enemies, but also friends in the pliers, as recently when the import tax on steel and aluminium was introduced. Nevertheless, it is important to remain close friends with the Americans, stressed Prime Minister Rutte last Friday in his weekly press conference. I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister how he is currently looking at the development of the future relationship between the European Union and the Netherlands in particular with the United States. With the others, I am curious to see how the Minister prepares our Prime Minister's visit to the American President, in which he will of course be involved, but which he may also be very close to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I am looking at Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u125	Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about testosterone. Testosterone is a hormone that activates particles in the brain. In the area of aggression, the behavior seems to be determined by it. To mention a few examples: moving your embassy from Tel Aviv to Al-Quds, withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement, imposing import duties on steel and aluminum from Europe and thus triggering a trade war, and the reason why we are here tonight, blowing up the nuclear agreement with Iran. Greatness in combination with rigorous decisions cause further disruption of the world. The world is being held hostage by a permanent Trump campaign with as its main source of information very blunt messages on Twitter. It is incomprehensible and unthinkable that the final decision was taken after amateur theatre of the lowest level that really deserves the worst reviews. Would it really be true that Trump turns out to be a puppet of Netanyahu? On the basis of a combined PowerPoint presentation, the United States finally decided to demolish the nuclear agreement with Iran. Although all world leaders have tried to convince Trump of the importance of the atomic deal, it should not benefit. All this while the facts, as usual, contradict Trump. In the last ten inspection reports, the International Atomic Energy Agency has confirmed that Iran has complied with its nuclear obligations under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. Although the JCPOA provides external, independent control of the Iranian nuclear programme, Trump believes that this institute does not adequately monitor Iran's nuclear programme. I would therefore ask the Minister: how does he assess the fact that statements of independent institutions are being swept off the table by Trump, while a PowerPoint presentation is being believed? Blowing up the agreement results in two major worrying developments. The first worrying development on the Iranian side is the expansion of the uranium enrichment programme. The ayatollahs are doing everything they can now and that is of course not the intention. Does the Minister share the concerns about this and will he address this internationally? The second worrying development is the fact that Trump has indicated that he wants to re-introduce the suspended US sanctions. These sanctions may also affect European companies, because even if a company acts neatly within the law, it can be punished by the US sanction regime. My question to the Minister: how does he assess that Dutch entrepreneurs will soon be threatened by the American sanctions regime? Is the Minister prepared to urge the United States at EU level not to allow European companies to be targeted by these sanctions? At this point, I am considering a motion. Several European countries, including the Netherlands, have discussed their regional role and the American decision with Iran. This was done, among other things, at the informal European Council on 16 and 17 May and at the Foreign Affairs Council on 28 May. My question to the Minister is: what exactly did that get out of there? I read in a press release that Tusk, as President of the European Council, talks about his American friends. If those are your friends... Or are they really friends when you become a victim of their sanctions? Are they your real friends when they start a trade war against you? Are they real friends when they make appointments over and over again? Is it not time to fundamentally reconsider our position vis-à-vis the United States? Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. DENK is in all cases against nuclear weapons. It's weird that a country like Israel develops and owns nuclear weapons without a western cock crow. But if Iran develops nuclear weapons, the turnips are cooked. As far as I'm concerned, that's right. There must be no double standards for nuclear weapons. That is why I would like to conclude by saying: away with all nuclear weapons from all over the world. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u126	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I am looking at Mr Van Helvert from the CDA Group. Go ahead, four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u127	Thank you, Mr President. On 8 May last, President Trump announced that he would blow up the atomic deal with Iran. This also fits in with the series of undiplomatic and unilateral acts by the US President. In addition, allies are not spared. We could actually turn this debate into a debate on transatlantic relations, because in friendship we have this with the United States of America, which also fits in with each other's criticism, including the one-sided step to get out of the atomic deal. But I suggest you don't. I do not want to do that with my input either, because that would be a great service to the ayatollah regime in particular. That's what we're talking about. To this end, the deal is also closed: to get as much grip on it as possible, which of course we don't have in its entirety. The deal is far from perfect. The CDA was also critical of that point from the beginning. The nuclear program isn't gonna end with that deal, it's gonna slow down. Nor do the inspectors have unhindered access to the military sites. Iran may even continue to research and develop nuclear technology and the ballistic missile programme. So Obama's atomic deal was actually based on hope: hope that rapprochement of the West would lead to more responsible behaviour of Iran. The opposite has happened. The atomic deal didn't control Iran. The regime has become increasingly assertive and aggressive, it extends the long arm across the Middle East and it is the largest sponsor of terrorism in the world.................................................................................................................................................. Our permanent Chambers committee was able to see for itself when she was in Saudi Arabia. Of course, it is not for nothing that I asked my colleague Mulder to replace me there. I understand that they were able to hear and feel the bombs themselves while they were talking to the cabinet there. Ayatollah Khamenei tweets that Israel is a cancer and that it needs to be removed. Meanwhile, the regime is suppressing its own demonstrative population. Then there was the spectacular operation of the secret service of Israel, which provided information on Iran's nuclear programme prior to the nuclear deal. Of course, it is not a tuxedo gun that the atomic deal is being violated, but it is part of the agreement that would give Iran complete openness. So that has not turned out to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u128	I would like you to finish these sentences before proceeding to Mr Van Ojik's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u129	For this sentence and the sentences before it, Mr Van Helvert said something important. He said that the nuclear deal failed to keep Iran's ambitions in check. He mentioned a number of examples. Nor did the nuclear deal have the pretence to solve all the problems, but it was intended to control Iran's nuclear ambitions. That was the purpose of the nuclear deal, no more and certainly no less, because that is not nothing. Does Mr Van Helvert agree with me that until now, until the United States of America ran away, it has succeeded?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u130	Surely there are advantages of that deal. We indicate that we were not very satisfied with that deal, because we actually wanted to see more. But we see that at the points that have been agreed and checked, profit points have also been achieved. The point is, however, that we are faced with the strange situation that Iran formally keeps to the agreements of that deal, formally, but at the same time continues to seek weapons of mass destruction in Europe, does everything behind the scenes and does not allow the inspectors to just access military locations. For the screens, for the camera, everything looks neat, but we don't get a complete picture of whether everything happens at the same time at the back. In addition, we also see that in the time of imposing these sanctions Iran has become even more assertive and aggressive, which means that on other points we say: we may have made those points with this deal, but on other points we see behavioral deterioration. This, of course, does not make the whole thing satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u131	From Ojik for a second reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u132	It is also our job as politicians in such a debate to take a position, not just to raise questions. My group says we're better off with that deal than without that deal. So running away from the United States, undermining that deal, is a bad thing. I would like to know whether Mr Van Helvert, who says he had a lot of criticism of that deal, at least I agree with him. He's pointing at his paper, so he's gonna come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u133	I'd like to do it without paper. Of course, I had prepared it fantasticly and I wanted to come up with some criticisms, but it is good to see that GroenLinks is very curious about what we have to say. I'd like to say that. I do not think we have made it a secret either that we think that even though we were not satisfied with that deal, that we would have wanted more of it, this bad or incomplete deal is still better than nothing. What if we want a better deal? I heard Mr De Roon say that too, and I understand that, because who doesn't want a better deal than this? I think everyone wants a better deal. You could actually ask: who wouldn't want a better deal? Everyone does. Then the starting position you have and where you still have your sanctions in your pocket is a better way to go than simply throwing them overboard unilaterally. So we do not think that is a sensible step. In spite of the fact that we are not entirely satisfied with the deal, the starting position of this incomplete deal with our sanction package seems even better. So we can punch something if we have to, diplomatically. That is actually a final step. We think that's a better starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u134	There are no other interruptions. Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u135	Let me see what I don't have to say anymore, because that has already happened in this interruption. Meanwhile, European intelligence services are warning me that I would like to say that even before Iran's current ambitions. For example, the intelligence service of the German state of Baden-Württemberg stated in a comprehensive report a little over two weeks ago that Iran continues to make efforts, like Pakistan and Syria, to obtain materials and know-how for the development of weapons of mass destruction and to optimise appropriate missile systems. Iranian businessmen would have bought materials from a German company, Krempel. These same materials also later appeared in Syria, in a rocket using chemical weapons against civilians. Even after this explosive disclosure, the German minister, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Export Control, did not restrict trade between Krempel and Iran. Is this message correct and is the Minister prepared to ask for it? Mr President, I see that time is running out. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. The cabinet wants to keep the deal up. The CDA has been saying for a long time that, if you want to, you have to increase the pressure on Tehran to get a better deal, even after that. The EU has not really done anything so far. At least I don't see any signals. But the minister is closer, so maybe he can say something about it. Like 50PLUS, I would like to ask what is really happening with Russia and China, which I believe are our allies at this point. What do they think of that? At this point we may be getting closer to these allies. Finally, the CDA attaches great importance to the 400-year relationship we have with the United States. A whimsical performance by one president cannot destroy a 400-year relationship. We have always seen the United States go up and down in their focus, now more abroad, then more inland. In that perspective, I think we should see the discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u136	Now you've really run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u137	...or we'll end up in painful discussions very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u138	Thank you. You are really out of your speaking time, but you are lucky, because you have an interruption from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u139	According to the cabinet, the agreement is and remains the best way to ensure that Iran does not develop a nuclear weapon. The Netherlands will continue to support the agreement, as will the EU and the other six signatories. Is that also the position of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u140	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u141	Mr Van Helvert said at the end: 400 years of relationship with America. That actually brought me to the question I already had, but certainly now, what does he think of Mr Buma's comment at the CDA conference last Saturday? He spoke of America in strikingly critical words, if not sharp words. Can Mr Van Helvert tell us if that is a new policy? Or is that "standing" so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u142	Mr. Van Rooijen, you're not going to tell me that I can't control my group leader? I wouldn't want that. No, that's why I started...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u143	I asked the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u144	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, No, don't worry, I've got the chairman of the group completely under control. That is why I began my speech by criticizing the US President's decision. At the same time, I said: we can make this a debate on transatlantic relations, because in a friendship like we have with the United States, there is criticism of each other, harsh criticism, also criticism of the unilateral withdrawal of this deal. That's what I started. I must honestly say that I was partly chatting in the social part, so I didn't hear the speech entirely, but I think the group chairman also spoke in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u145	That was a quick peek at the CDA Congress. Mr. Van Rooijen for a second reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u146	I didn't read it either, but I found the tone sharper than I used to from Buma and the CDA. Perhaps Mr Van Helvert can confirm or deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u147	No, I think we have always reserved space in the good 400-year relationship with the United States to respond very sharply and very critically to that country, our ally, especially if its sanctions directly harm our companies and our country. I think you should be very critical of that. I merely said that we must look at all the critical issues, disputes and disputes in perspective. Some groups are asking themselves: is America still an ally, can we still rely on them? Then I think: well, we have to keep the rest a little bit. We need to be very clear and critical about our differences. We can also make a very clear sound about that. I believe that our group chairman has done a good job of this at Congress. In addition, after my opening line, I say that we can really make critical sounds: dear people, let us keep our heads cool and place everything in the perspective of 400 years of good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u148	Last comment from Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u149	Briefly, my question. Is it true that Mr Buma's view of Saturday and what the Prime Minister said about the relationship with America the day before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u150	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u151	That seems short and concise to me. You have still challenged Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u152	Mr Van Helvert is still a bit interested in the hot stuff. He says: "You can be critical, especially on a 400-year-old friend.That's why I started my critical note "But we shouldn't lose sight of how good we are friends." What exactly is the consequence of Mr Van Helvert's criticism of the United States in sharper terms? Surely it cannot be that he says all of this and that then nothing changes about the position of the CDA or their appreciation of what needs to be done in the transatlantic relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u153	No, because that criticism is indeed there. That is why I tried to say in my introduction: this is our criticism, and you should be able to give it, but let us not make a debate about the transatlantic relationship, because that is what we really only support the ayatollah regime. That is why I was right about the situation in Iran. But now that Mrs Ploumen asks me this: I think we should certainly be critical. I would also like to ask the Minister the following. I didn't have time for that anymore, but now that Mrs Ploumen is asking, I'm going to bring him in. The minister indicated earlier that the cabinet supports the great importance of the American decision, but that it should not drive a wedge in the transatlantic relationship. A number of us have also asked questions about this. I would like to ask the Minister: how does the Minister see that? Does he also see that the 400-year relationship with the United States is under pressure? Or does he say: no, that relationship is not under pressure, but in that relationship we really have a huge problem with how America is going to harm our business now? That is where Mrs Ploumen finds me at her side. We must make sure that we do not benefit from the fact that an ally that we have been working well with for years actually harms us in this way. In that sense, the words of the Prime Minister of Canada also addressed me. He was really disappointed in the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u154	Second reaction, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u155	I naturally agree with Mr Van Helvert when he says that our economic interests are being damaged by this Trump decision. That is bad enough in itself, but there is also a bit more going on. Is Mr Van Helvert prepared with me to make a moral assessment of the fact that an ally runs away from an agreement which the parties adhere to? Does he agree with me that we should be allowed to make a sharper condemnation of this than he has so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u156	I don't know what you mean by a harsh conviction. We say we don't think it's wise, we don't like them doing that. I think it is. If we are going to talk in this debate about whether we are condemning the United States, when we are actually having a debate on the deal with Iran... And why are we doing this deal with Iran? Because they make nuclear weapons and threaten to use them when necessary. Then here in this debate, where we are trying to get a grip on it, we would all be meeting together to condemn our ally America. I'd say that's a very bad signal. That is why I said in my speech: we are critical of this. But this debate is about how we are all still trying to get a grip on those dangerous men. It is mainly gentlemen who are in the regime in Iran. That's a conscious choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u157	Last comment, Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u158	The fact is that this deal gave us the right grip on Iran and its aspirations. We're losing that now. Europe wants to keep that deal going. America's pulling out. So something really has changed. I appreciate that Mr Van Helvert is trying, in his eyes, to react balancedly, but he is dragging himself into a labyrinth that he will not come out of, and that will lead to greater insecurity for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u159	I understand that Mrs Ploumen thinks: let's all be very clear here. Nevertheless, I would remind the Members of Parliament, the Members of Parliament, that it does not work that way in foreign affairs. And why not? Because there are still openings. There is still room for diplomatic solutions or at least diplomatic improvement. There is still time, because the sanctions have not yet entered into force. As long as that space exists, are we not going to condemn allies here in this room or shit people or whatever? That seems extremely unwise to me. Then we get rough here and the ministers who are allowed to do the work really have a 1-0 lag before they even start. I understand that you want very clear language, but in foreign affairs it is unfortunately not a fries stand where you say "I want a fries special and I pay €2.50 or €3 for this," and two minutes later you have it. That's not how it works. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to talk about this at the moment. Let's talk about Iran, because I think that's where the real danger lies. If Iran's nuclear bomb falls on the Netherlands, the whole transatlantic discussion has not helped us at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u160	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I suggest we end the first term of the Chamber. There is a need for about ten minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u161	We are continuing the debate on the withdrawal of the United States from the nuclear agreement with Iran. The Foreign Minister, Mr Blok, is already ready and can begin his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first reaction on behalf of the cabinet to the US Government's decision to end its support for the nuclear agreement with Iran, I expressed my deep regret at that decision. Not because the JCPOA is a perfect chord, but because it works. Others pointed out this evening that the International Atomic Energy Agency had observed up to ten times that Iran had complied with its commitments. At the same time, there is a great deal of reason to criticise Iran's action in a multitude of areas; I will go into this in detail. But in this important area of the threat of nuclear proliferation in the very unsafe, restless area of the Middle East, we had a working agreement and so we deeply regret the decision taken by the United States. The situation is as it is now: I myself, in my conversations with my colleague Pompeo and the National Security Advisor Bolton, have also brought our concerns to bear. The Netherlands is now moving in a European context to try to keep up what we can keep up. At the same time, we are trying to maintain the important relationship with the United States, which we need and need to cherish in many areas. The cabinet uses a number of principles. We want to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. We want to turn many of you away from the threat posed by the Iranian ballistic missile programme. We want to reduce Iran's bad role in the region. And we want to minimise the impact on business of the extraterritorial effects of US sanctions. The division of roles is such that Mr Kaag will address the impact on business and the question of how we can limit it as much as possible, and I myself will address the other aspects. Against this background, I will answer the questions asked. I do so in the following subdivision: first the questions on the JCPOA itself, then the questions on sanctions, then the questions on the ballistic missile programme, the Iranian role in the region, the transatlantic relationship and finally the questions on the internal situation in Iran. First of all, the questions that have been asked about the JCPOA. Many of you raised the question of how Europe is now focusing energy on maintaining the agreement. Mr Kaag will comment on the specific content of the measures aimed at ensuring that businesses continue to do business. At the same time, the political efforts of High Representative Mogherini and the E3, the leading EU countries, are aimed at seeing how we can keep the nuclear agreement alive in talks with Iran, for example with Russia and China, and, of course, with the United States. We also involve Mr Sjoerdsma in these talks, asking for them, but not linked to the JCPOA, but as an independent subject, these three other issues: the ballistics activities, the regional role and the evil human rights role of the Iranian regime. We always do that first through the dialogue route, and if there is really no other way to do so by means of sanctions. I will go into this further in the section on sanctions. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the International Atomic Energy Agency could indeed verify sufficiently. Later Mr. De Roon joined him. The International Atomic Energy Agency has reported to us ten times that it has found that Iran has complied with its commitments. It also had the means to do so. The JCPOA is also to a large extent an agreement containing additional agreements on existing international control arrangements to allow more on-the-spot checks. If the International Atomic Energy Agency reports to us that it has good experience with this, I have no reason to doubt it. Mr Van Ojik asked: can we keep the European front closed about the JCPOA? I'm glad we can do that right now. I have also heard the statements of a Lithuanian minister in this case. This was asked by Mr De Roon, among others. I also attended a number of RBZ-Raden in which all European colleagues were present. Fortunately, we can keep the front closed right now. This is also important in an international playing field that is already getting so divided. Both Mr De Roon and Mr Van Rooijen asked for my response to Mr Khamenei's comments. First of all, there was the statement that there is a risk of Iran leaving the deal. Even without that statement, we would of course have realised that there is a risk at the moment when an important country ceases to support it. That is all the more encouragement to move Iran to continue to cooperate. The Iranian communication that enrichment activities are being re-expanded, although still below the limit allowed, but on a larger scale, is, of course, worrying. It may still be possible, but this is an Iranian step that does not contribute to creating a relaxed and constructive atmosphere on the road to a final solution. Mr Van Rooijen asked how I see the demands made by Iran on Europe. Generally speaking, negotiations do not help when parties start by submitting lists of requirements. Internationally, this is no different than nationally. Of course, that makes it more complicated for other parties to come to the table. You're actually being put on hold. I therefore have a strong preference for non-list discussions. This problem is complicated enough as it is. Then there are the questions that have been asked about sanctions. Mr Ten Broeke asked whether we are on the same page in the EU as the Americans when it comes to sanctions against individuals. The Dutch position is that we as the European Union must make our own assessment. If we apply sanctions, I have a very strong preference for sanctions against individuals and not against entire sectors, because they are most harmful to the population. In the context of the discussions we are having in the EU, therefore, we are looking at options for possible additional sanctions, also specifically with regard to those other three non-JCPOA spearheads that I mentioned on which we wish to change Iran's behaviour. Mr Ten Broeke asked whether we have taken steps at EU level to promote the Snapback mechanism. As Mr Ten Broeke himself pointed out, this is not legally possible, but the EU Member States have committed themselves to reinstating EU sanctions in Iran's non-compliance with the JCPOA agreements. This situation does not arise now, but if it were to occur, the EU Member States would have this agreement in place. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether the E3 letter also expressed an EU position on extraterritoria... taliè... territoriality. I'm not the only one struggling with that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u163	I think this is a very good time for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u164	We're peeling it off right now. And there's gonna be a motion later, I guess. In the second part of my interruption I would like to comment on the snapback. Now we are talking about sanctions as such. No, let's start with the snapback anyway. That's better. The Minister says: legal cannot do it. I told him earlier that I had experienced in the Chamber that all kinds of things that would not be possible under the Treaties would then be possible in a legal way if the political will was there to make them possible. There should be political will here. I know that one of your predecessors did indeed try before the European Council took the decision to abolish this automation. So if there is a will among all the Member States, this could be a hand in the direction of the United States of America, to set up the part of the sanctions that Europe itself is talking about and which do not directly relate to the Iran deal, and if they can only not be imposed on an offence, an infringement, the deal at the time of unanimity, rather than the other way around, then that should be possible. It is similar to the reverse qualified majority voting in EMU, which the Minister probably knows very well. Only in this case it is not a qualified majority. We've tried it before. Europe didn't want it then. But that was in 2015, in a different situation. The Germans stopped it. They didn't want to die. The Germans would like to get on their knees right now to get that deal back with the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u165	This was a pretty long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u166	It was also called a long shot. The Americans have abruptly closed the door and mentioned a long list of conditions. Mr Ten Broeke is now taking a part that has been discussed in the past, but frankly does not feature very prominently on America's wish list. He is asking me to find a solution along that route in a very complicated situation. I do not believe that this is the key to solving the problem on this complex playing field, apart from the legal problems that I cannot solve. It's not at the heart of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u167	Let me take a look at Mr Ten Broeke. A reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u168	Perhaps the Minister himself thinks he has a key, but that is what we are about to hear in his reply. I'm afraid he doesn't either. That's what he reported himself when he just got back from Washington. What we are doing here in the Chamber is putting forward elements that may, in common, lead to something else being saved from the deal. This is an element that does not pose any danger because it does not require renegotiation with any other partner. This is an agreement that the European Union could make with itself. That is why I am constantly putting this forward. I am not convinced that it would not be legally possible, because it was possible when the deal had yet to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u169	The point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u170	I made two arguments: the legal point, but also the fact that not so prominent in the debate on the JCPOA is that this is a very promising route. I do agree with Mr Ten Broeke that he is looking for a solution. That's what's good for him. But then it's part of my job to make a real assessment of whether it really contributes to the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u171	Last comment Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u172	Okay, let's move on. That snapback, the minister doesn't want it. His officials tell him that that is not legal and here in the Chamber he only hears from me that I find it interesting as a part. But, of course, I am looking for a basket of solutions, in the sphere of Iran's regional role, in the sphere of the ballistics programme and now in this area. Then let's talk about sanctions against individuals. The Minister himself has already indicated that he has a preference for this too. In reply to my questions on this subject, he wrote that nothing is actually happening at the moment. Now he says he wants to explore options. What options are those? Is that the option to act in sync with the Americans? Because that too may not have been prominent in the conversations, but at the moment when we can stack things, there may be an image in the American eyes: here you have at least a country that wants to do a hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u173	The option of personalised sanctions linked to the other undesirable Iranian activities has been discussed on a number of occasions at European level. So far, there has been no support for this. You heard from my earlier answer that this option should simply be put back on the table as far as the Netherlands is concerned. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether the E3 letter on extraterritoriality is now going well in one go; that was the last time I used it, an EU position. That's right. The EU has never been a supporter of extraterritoriality; the verdict on such an evening is of course better. Mr Van der Staaij specifically asked about the placement of Hezbollah on the EU terrorist list. I share Mr Van der Staaij's concerns about this, but in the past there has been support in the European Union for placing the military branch of Hezbollah on the EU terrorist list, but not for placing the political branch on it. I have no reason to believe that would be any different now. Mr Van Helvert asked about the report that the German intelligence service has observed Iranian acquisition operations. The last message I know about that is from 2016. Since then, I have heard no more information about this than the reports of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which says that Iran has fulfilled its obligations. Then there are the questions that have been asked about the ballistic missile program. Mr Ten Broeke was the first to ask whether I share the concerns about this and how we hope to deal with it. After that, many others asked. The E3 have so far been able to talk to Iran twice about these concerns, in addition to our concerns about the nuclear programme. This has not led to any conclusions so far, but the solution to this issue, as with the regional role and support for terrorism, must, in my opinion, come from a combination of the negotiating table, to which the EU must act unanimously, and the sanctions, if they are necessary. I have just indicated that the Netherlands is certainly not ruling it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u174	There is an interruption by Mr Van Helvert. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u175	Yes, it is still about the answer to my question about intelligence in the German state of Baden-Württemberg. The Minister said that the latest news about this came from 2016. Dutch STUDY recently made the call. For the second time in a short time, the director also took part in the publicity. The General states that the service has prevented a substantial number of attempts to obtain knowledge and materials for weapons of mass destruction. You could compare that to what the Germans said. He explicitly mentions Iran as a country that can "shop" in the Netherlands. I ask for this and I respond to it because the Minister says that the latest news was heard in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u176	The previous question was about the German service. I've been asking about that. I'll have to save the STUDY for the second term, because I'm not ready for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u177	All the understanding for that! I am referring to Germany as an example in order to prevent that question being answered precisely in that box. You can see that Iran shop in Germany, in the Netherlands and perhaps in other countries in Europe to continue producing weapons of mass destruction. Is there, in a broader sense, not only in Germany or in the Netherlands, a view in Europe? Is that also on the agenda when you talk to your European colleagues about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u178	Can that be taken into account in the second term? I'll take a look at Minister Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u179	The second question is: is this on the agenda at the meeting with European colleagues? Yes, because I already indicated that, in addition to the nuclear agreement we are discussing tonight, we have three other concerns. I have already indicated that I think we need to act at European level to get Iran back on the right track. So, yeah, it's on the agenda. On the STIVD question, I have to come back later. Then a number of questions have been asked about the Iranian role in the region. Mrs Karabulut also asked about the European role here. I am referring here to the reply I just gave, namely that there have been two discussions until now between the E3 and the Iranian Government on issues other than the nuclear agreement. Mrs Karabulut also asked me if I see any chance of relaunching the process of obtaining weapons of mass destruction from the Middle East, which started in 1995. In 2010 another attempt was made at that time by a Finnish negotiator to get that stalled process back on track. That didn't work. Israel has also repeatedly indicated that it does not wish to participate. Against the backdrop of the major problems that we now have in relation to the nuclear deal with Iran, I fear that an even bigger step that was not possible in the past is really too far for the wrist stick at the moment. I agree with Mrs Karabulut that it would be fantastic if we could achieve that. But I think we will achieve a great deal if we can keep the JCPOA alive and at the same time allow the discussion with Iran on the other three important issues to result. Mr. De Roon...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u180	One moment, Minister, because I believe that this is an interruption by Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u181	I know it's very difficult and I also know that it's an ideal that we're all striving for. I do not expect the Minister to achieve immediate results. Given the circumstances, the threat of a nuclear race, including in the region, and the involvement of various parties, I think that right now is the time to try to revive this process. That is actually my request to the Minister, especially since we are currently taking part in the UN Security Council and may offer new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u182	There is no difference of opinion as to whether this would be good, but I am surprised by Mrs Karabulut's statement that it would be right now, when we are now further away from the negotiating table than ever. The JCPOA has just been seriously troubled by relations between Israel and the Palestinian region: more worrying than ever. There is tremendous tension in Syria and Yemen. I also look at it all with great sorrow, but the thesis that this would be the right time to bring parties to the table is... Of course the wish is the father of the thought, but I have to deal with the reality of the Middle East as I see it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u183	I want to be in line with that reality. Look, you have different ways. You can go along with this threat of countries continuing to work in misery and be increasingly threatening, with an assertive, narcissistic President of the United States who wants to invest billions more in the renewal of nuclear weapons, with an increasing threat to security there, but certainly here too. If we want to breathe new life into it from our position, this can contribute to the necessary relaxation. Again, it would be superb if the minister had a magic wand or could perform miracles. That is not what I expect, but that he is examining the possibilities in the UN and looking at any other possibility. I think the minister has a lot more supporters than he thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u184	I think it would be fantastic, but I think it is really very optimistic and even so optimistic that it is not real to think that it would be feasible at the moment to get parties that were not prepared to do so in a somewhat less difficult time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u185	Last point, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u186	We can only know that if the Minister makes an effort to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u187	No, we shouldn't operate so naively on the international scene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u188	Well, I notice with this minister... At the moment, a deal has been blown up by the most powerful country in the world, a multilateral deal. There's a nuclear arms race at risk. There's a new war in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u189	You don't have to fully outline the situation. It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u190	Then our efforts must be focused not only on us but also on the interests of the people, on the promotion of security. And when the rhetoric is more war, you have to put on the other side an alternative that you're working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u191	Your point is clear. I call Mr Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u192	You have to be realistic if you want to achieve your effects. All parliaments of Western European countries have this wish. If all the parliaments of Western European countries have this wish, unfortunately this will not lead to a different decision being taken in the United States, no matter how clearly the message has been conveyed, even by me personally. Then, unfortunately, this does not mean that countries in the Middle East are going to do so, whether Israel, which has so far not always wanted to participate in this non-proliferation conference, or that they are other countries, all of which have their own agenda. I'm afraid that doesn't lead to it. I wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u193	Mrs Ploumen also has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u194	Thank you. At the same time, Mr. Chairman. The Minister is giving up way too quickly here. International diplomacy is a long-term issue, of patience, sometimes despairing, and then at the right time the right people are trying to get the table. I would like to remind him that during the Cold War, when relations were icy and people thought that things would never work out, a number of breakthroughs were made. Like Mrs Karabulut, I also say: if only it could be realized. We're not strangers to the world. We know how complicated it is. We also do not ask for an obligation to produce results. However, we are asking for an effort to be made at the very moment when the Netherlands is on the Security Council. The Netherlands, for its part, is so rightly in favour of good relations with all parties in that very complex Middle East. I'd like to ask the Minister not to reject it immediately. Think about it again, because I'm sure there are possibilities. It would be a waste forever if this minister didn't use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u195	The European action, I have just explained in detail, fully supports the Netherlands. But Mrs Ploumen is now suggesting that the Netherlands, alongside the European effort, should start this process alone. That's not real, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u196	Mrs Ploumen, I am also looking at the time: we do not always have to outline the situation. It's clear, so please keep it to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u197	No, we certainly don't. I am just trying to hide my disappointment, because Mr Blok and I always understand each other so well. Let me make it even clearer: my plea is to use all the opportunities that the Netherlands has given us within Europe, within the alliances, within the Middle East and in the Security Council, and to do what is necessary. That's my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u198	If you put it that way, I agree with you immediately, because that is exactly what we are doing. I have indicated to you the full commitment at European level. I indicated to you that I myself raised it when I visited the United States. It is in my input and that of our people in the Security Council. The European Union was the founder of the nuclear agreement, but it is now a matter of whether I think that the Netherlands should start its own path, regardless of the effort at European Union level. That is why I put it so sharply, because I said that I do not think it is real.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u199	You can respond one last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u200	I do not want to turn it into a semantic debate, but I think the appeal from this side is correct, namely, as the English say, to go the extra mile. There is every reason for this, both politically and economically. I would ask the Minister to reflect on that one more time. There are real possibilities for the Netherlands. Not to do that in our opinion, but to play a leading role and not just hide behind a broader consensus, because that is as slow as the last player. I can't say it any better than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u201	The point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u202	It is very helpful that now the phrase "The Netherlands was not used in its uppie," because then I share the bet. Mrs Ploumen asked the most specifically, but others also asked about the impact of the US decision on the transatlantic relationship. I indicated at the beginning of this speech, but also earlier in response to the American decision, that I deeply regret this decision. At the same time, the US remains an indispensable partner in many areas. Europe depends on NATO cooperation for its security. At this time of very undesirable tariff measures on the part of the United States, both remain very large market economies. At this time, when the United States is unfortunately leaving multilateralism in a number of areas, we are still faced with a very large democratic rule of law. So there are many reasons to cherish the transatlantic bond. As far as I am concerned, a complete European single market would be undesirable, because it would rather contribute to further fragmentation. I think it is precisely our task to find connections and to see this as a mild life crisis of a very good friend, with whom we have already experienced a lot. We have to assume that after the midlife crisis we can also move forward together, starting from the old friendships. It was also Mrs Ploumen who used the term 'changing alliances'. I would like to avoid that as much as possible. We see that developing now, but I really think that the free democratic countries in the world have much more to bind them than separate them. So I would not want to drift into separate camps, more than is already happening in the present circumstances. Mr De Roon asked what I think of Pompeo's twelve demands. I want to distinguish between the demands and the concerns that they raise, because I share those concerns. They very much overlap with the issues I have said that we believe that Iran needs to change its behaviour. But these 12 requirements also apply to what I said earlier about laying down demands on one side prior to discussions. It doesn't help if a party puts undisputed demands on the table when we talk about a coalition agreement or a college agreement in the Netherlands. This has happened in political history, and it has not been repeated. Of course you have to be clear about what you want. And again, the concerns of the United States are very justified, but I fear that it will not contribute to a solution in this way. Then there was a call from several quarters for an assessment of the significance of the current situation for the internal political situation in Iran. Mrs Ploumen was the one who asked about the headscarf protest in Iran. It will not surprise Mrs Ploumen that I fully support the women who say they want to dress the way they want to dress. This is, of course, an expression of a human rights situation which is deeply inadequate for women, minorities and homosexuals. It is not for nothing that I have also mentioned human rights as one of the subjects in which the Netherlands, together with the EU and with other countries, wants to continue to exert pressure on Iran in order to improve the situation. And in order to exert that pressure, you have to meet at the negotiating table. That is possible, therefore, the greatest damage caused by the cancellation of that JCPOA. Trust in international agreements is being undermined and thus the possibility of raising all these other important issues. Mr Van Ojik asked for an assessment of whether Rohani's position will weaken and whether hardliners will gain more influence. That's definitely a risk we're taking. In addition to the many reasons I have already mentioned to be unhappy with this American decision, the internal position of the more consultative directors in Iran is also weakened. As a result, we run the risk that hardliners will make life even more difficult for their own people and will not speed up international consultations. It is indeed possible that their position may be strengthened. Mr De Roon asked how I looked at the Iranian rhetoric. He also referred to the very invigorating Iranian tweet about Israel. Of course, I'm far from it. That was very inappropriate. It always is, but especially at this time when everyone should really be aware of the importance of looking for exactly what binds us and for relaxation in the region. You cannot put Israel in the corner in this truly scandalous way. Mr President, I shall use this time limit to comment on a motion that has already been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u203	This was also the moment when Mr Van der Staaij was already waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u204	Minister Blok, a moment, because there is an interruption by Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u205	Perhaps for the sake of clarity, that motion was held. I would have liked to activate her in order for her to be the subject of debate again in the second term, but she has now been adapted and has been given co-signatories. So I do not know whether it is clearer to wait until it is submitted, we all have the text and we know what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u206	Now that the tension is being increased, I don't want to reveal the outcome. I am therefore waiting for this motion to be distributed. I hope that I have answered the questions in my area in the first place. Mr Kaag will answer the questions in her area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u207	Thank you, Minister Blok. I call Mr Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u208	Mr President, thank you. I realize that I am in front of the motion that is expected with tension, so I will try to be very brief. There have been two or three questions put by several Members concerning the trade interests of the Netherlands with Iran. What are we going to do to protect it in the wider context, as outlined by Mr Blok, when it comes to the consolidation and protection of the JCPOA as far as we can? The other side of that story, provided Iran adheres to the deal, is of course always that there is a systematic, slow resumption of, among other things, the trade relationship. The cabinet is still committed to this, but within the framework already outlined by Mr Blok. The position is still that we are focusing on resumption, a slow expansion of trade relations. This has been happening since 2016, through a number of missions carried out by former cabinet members, Minister Kamp, Minister Schultz and a number of others, through information provision and possible credit insurance. All this has, of course, been highlighted in a new light: uncertainty about the impact of US sanctions on Dutch and European companies or anyone trading with Iran. What are the starting points? Multilaterally, the High Representative, Mrs Mogherini, has her nine-point trail. Part of it is, of course, the preservation and deepening of economic relations and the maintenance of trade. A second important part of this is the blocking statute, anti-boycott legislation, and in parallel, of course, always talks with the US and others to emphasize the importance from a Dutch perspective. The impact of the blocking statute is not yet very concrete; let me put it first. The Commission has announced, within its own mandate, that it is going to update the anti-boycott regulation, which has indeed been dusted. It'll take time. Secondly, it called on the EIB, an EU institution, to indeed extend its lending mandate, including towards Iran. You have all read that the EIB has already announced that it is a major risk because of financial trade, dollars, and that the EIB does not really intend to respond to the Commission's call. That bank, the European Investment Bank, is independent in this. The Commission has been able to decide, but the bank has its own policy, precisely because, as many of you know, the Americans are a major shareholder and have already announced that they will actually withdraw from the EIB. In international banking traffic, the EIB will no longer be able to operate at all. The EIB option is therefore unlikely to be a real option in practice. What are we doing? What do we think of the anti-boycott regulation? In principle, like all EU Member States, we support the Commission in this. At the moment there is no objection procedure of two months for the Council and the European Parliament. If at the end of the day there will still be no objection, the BS, the anti-boycott regulation, will not take effect until 6 August. This is about the period when US financial transactions and sanctions on companies trading with Iran will actually enter into force. So we do live in a twilight zone. Not only is there still room, as stated earlier, in the broader negotiating framework to influence the Americans, but this period is also the period in which we need to inform the Dutch business about risks and see how the blocking statute will work. This is, of course, also the time to see what the consequences will be for business and how real this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u209	An interruption by Mrs Ploumen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u210	It's actually a question to the Minister. Mr Sjoerdsma asked if the EIB could play a role. The Minister has made it clear that the EIB cannot do so. So we find that the EIB cannot do it and that the commercial banking sector cannot do it. He couldn't, or barely could, before the JCPOA was canceled. Well, of course we're a bit in a corner painted by the Americans. Does the Minister see other possibilities or would she like to examine them further? Are there any ideas? That is my question, although I can imagine that it might be something to come back to later. But it feels very uncomfortable to let us be so constrained, partly motivated by competition considerations on the American side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u211	I recognize the care. I fully agree, because if we take a position as a cabinet against the unilateral withdrawal from the JCPOA and if we also believe that the continuation of the relationship in the field of trade should continue, it seems unfortunate that we are forced into a de facto different reality. In any case, we are still talking to the Commission and the EIB. We don't have to accept this, but I do think that's why I'm starting with the somewhat negative scenario that we need to be realistic. A bank is a bank is a bank, as Mrs Ploumen knows like no other. And it operates in a banking, international way. So we have to look at the other options, but still within the framework according to Iran's own behaviour, because it is always a concession based on compliance with the JCPOA. So this whole period also has a number of variables now that we have to take with us. It's a complex legal process. I would like to go on about how the other measures for Dutch industry or European industry are going to work, before we come back to the options that the Netherlands has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u212	Exactly. That might also prevent some interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u213	Perhaps, but, of course, with the permission of the Chamber. Payments, also a problem which Mrs Ploumen knows from her previous role. Payments with Iran for this situation were difficult and difficult in any case. We, as the Netherlands, have already posted a payment expert, a financial expert to the embassy some time ago, precisely to see how the Iranians can meet a number of international standards in terms of funding, transparency, legislation, the Basel agreements they have to comply with in order to operate internationally at all. That was already slow and was not ideal. Nor do I think that the Iranians might now think it makes any sense at all. During the three weeks I was allowed to be Foreign Minister, Iran insisted on ourselves and others, calling Italy as an example. They said Italy had found a financing structure with a particular bank, through... I know, it sounds a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u214	It's a reputable bank, but that doesn't always say something natural, as we know. In any case, let me describe it from memory: it was a construction with a well-known bank that protected payment systems and therefore protected them from possible consequences. In our reality, payments and trade go together. For the time being, we believe that small and medium-sized enterprises may benefit from this construction in the future. Possibly. I think it should be examined at European level and not by a country alone. The second thing is, of course, I'm going to put it right back to the blocking statute that if that statute were to enter into force, the Americans would still say: well, but you have been trading with Iran, there is a ban on dollars earned or paid on the basis of trade with Iran and there are consequences for that. The blocking statute, of course, forbids companies to comply with an extraterritorial sanction. So the risk is that companies get stuck. We give information and we warn without wishing to discourage. At the same time, however, it is true that the larger companies, as you have seen in other European countries, as well as the indications of a number of Dutch companies, have the sense to do business with Iran, which likes to do so. We do not yet have any evidence that companies have actively withdrawn, but it is more about companies that were looking for contacts and wanted to trade and expand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u215	During our visit to Iran in November, we spoke to a number of companies at the Dutch embassy and also had other talks, even before canceling the nuclear deal. This showed that every time large companies in particular, but actually all companies, in the then more positive setting, had a big problem in investing because the banking traffic was actually closed. Did the Minister then have the feeling that your predecessor was there, but you also speak on behalf of your predecessor, Mr Delors, that there were openings there, or was it already in place before that, without much perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u216	I cannot talk about November, but in recent months it was estimated that Iran had made great progress on a number of measures, albeit slowly, so that Iran had better positioned itself to participate effectively in international bancair traffic and also met the standards of the Basel Agreement. I do not have any information on the question of where we are now; I do not know whether that has been stopped. You can of course imagine that, since the signals went the other way at some point, Tehran's priorities are probably different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u217	Could the Minister please give us the latest information on this later on through a letter? Is it completely stationary or was there progress and is it perhaps, albeit slower, still going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u218	I think it is wise that, in due course, when the EU's blocking status is established, we should give an estimate of how it will enter into force, including at national level, and which companies and sectors it will concern. At the same time, perhaps we can outline what other options we might be proposing within the EU framework, I would say, if necessary, within the framework of political development, Iran's attitude and expectations of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u219	The visit we made last November did indeed give us a very clear picture of the total lack of appetite in the Western investment community to invest money there. There are indeed good reasons for this. That's only gonna get worse now. There wasn't much investment either. The Americans invested 250 million dollars in Iran in 2016. That already went back to $200 million. The Boeing deal alone is 20 billion, I understand, and it's off now. So we can't say that Iran has been rich since 2015. We've just been looking at what to tell the Iranians, outside of the JCPOA. Now we come to the question of what to tell the Americans. If I understand correctly, the blocking statute also contains the far-reaching possibility of recovering any fines by freezing or even confiscating American assets. Do I see that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u220	Well, I'm looking good too... This is, of course, a technical note. What can companies do? The core idea of the blocking statute is that it is forbidden within the EU to respect US sanctions against Iran. This is a duty that we impose on EU companies. Companies must report to the Commission within 30 days of damage to their economic interests as a result of sanctions, with documentation. They must therefore not comply with foreign court rulings to enforce sanctions. Activities must not be stopped, contracts must not be dissolved and fines must not be paid. They can Recover damage caused by seizure of assets of entities causing the damage. For example, you're talking about an American company, not just a ruling from the U.S. judge. Or think of the consequences via OFAC, which are about financial compliance with US sanctions, or the risk of banks simply not working with that company anymore. You can't necessarily take action against that. The Dutch government is also not going to compensate for damage suffered by companies. However, companies that violate the anti-boycotting regulation must be penalised by the Member States. Such criminalisation shall be governed by national rules. This is a so-called economic crime. There are still a lot of hooks and eyes to it, so until we have seen the Commission's impact, I cannot say with 100% certainty how a company can possibly make a story. Second. What we will see happen and what we already see in other large companies is that they do not want the whole burden. They're gonna suffer damage anyway. Maybe you'll be right in the end, but it's also possible that your company will be on the bottle. If we were that businessman or woman, we'd probably choose eggs for our money. I think that is the reality on which the American sanctions are based.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u221	Mr Broeke for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u222	Thank you for this extensive explanation from the Minister. Indeed, it gives much more clarity. I would be grateful if we could receive a letter as soon as there is more clarity on how the Commission sees it. We, too, are receiving questions from Dutch entrepreneurs, and there are not very few people who have tried to make investments in recent years and who now want security, including from us, Members of Parliament. So if we can get some more information on that at the moment that clarity is there, very much. My second question concerns the most, sorry le mot, unincorporated nuclear of all sanctions, SWIFT. SWIFT is about payments. We have already talked about this in the past. It's been restricted once. At that time, it was the Americans who helped to make that happen. Europe followed. It wasn't really going through, but Iran and payments were found there very directly. Is the Minister aware of whether the Americans are considering this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u223	I don't know the latter. I will come back to that in second term or separately. In any case, I will give the Chamber a letter explaining the definition of the blocking status for the purposes of informing and advising everyone. I also make the commitment that we are already working on, that we will pass on the actual information with a risk assessment via an information portal at the RVO and through other channels, such as the embassies. But in the end, of course, it's up to the companies themselves. We do not want to discourage, we do not want to de facto actively participate in the elaboration of the American sanctions, while we support a blocking position. But I think we owe it to the companies to help them make their own consideration. We are working on that letter, which is a matter of priority, but as I explained, it will not be there before August, the receipt period, because it is not yet ready. Then we must also look at what has happened in the meantime and give an active explanation to business, for both emerging entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who have already invested. The Netherlands has invested in agriculture and in certain forms of technology. Our knowledge institutions were also very interested in these exchanges. We always believe in people to people, to reach people through exchange programmes and so on. A careful weighting with good advice is mandatory for citizens, businesses and knowledge institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u224	Thank you. I'll take a look at the time, too. Thank you, Minister Kaag, for answering the interruptions. There's two people left. I believe that Mr Van Rooijen had already been on this point. You had already interrupted on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u225	No, I have another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u226	Oh, you made up another point? It is now Mr Van Ojik's turn, because he was there before this point. Go ahead, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u227	It is indeed about this point. It might be good to emphasise how much is at stake. It is not just about commercial interests or investment interests of Dutch or European companies. It's about the aspirations of a predominantly young Iranian population who thought she had a nuclear deal and that life would finally get better. One might get a job and a little income. One might be able to get a good education. This is put at risk by the sanctions. The Minister has just outlined a palette of instruments that we have to mitigate the impact of these sanctions on companies. That is going to cost us money, because we have to pay for things that the Americans impose restrictions on. Is it conceivable, given what I think is the language the American president understands, that we are taking countermeasures? Mr Ten Broeke referred to the blocking status. That is one of the ways, but there may be a very wide range of possible counter-measures against the US to remove the uniform, extraterritorial effect of the sanctions that we do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u228	You're asking an interesting question. If you had been in the AO on rebalancing measures for steel and aluminium, I would have been able to answer that positively: we are working on that. In this context, I do not know whether you can punish a Member State which unilaterally withdraws from an international treaty. We can act against the extraterritorial effect of sanctions. That is the palette of measures that we can take. Furthermore, as Mr Blok has already outlined, we must, of course, continue to play a politically unambiguous role with the EU, to maintain and respect the JCPOA and to see what other options there are. That is why I mentioned earlier that a number of Dutch universities and knowledge institutions still value cooperation with Iranian universities in the future. A mission that was planned has been postponed so that we can investigate ourselves with whom, what and where during this period. But, of course, we will continue to look at the possibilities that are actually strengthening stability and, precisely, for the young generation. Most of the population is young. When I was there in February or March it will have been February I met some very young entrepreneurs: women, young men, all start-ups, great ideas, good connections, interested. They already had contacts with Dutch companies. There is a range of possibilities, which, of course, can also promote peace, precisely because that young generation is calling for change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u229	For Mr Van Ojik's second reaction, I would like to say that the Minister has promised to take these issues with him in the letter on the blockchain... the blocking statute. That could also be a variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u230	That is a very good suggestion, Madam President. I would almost say: I would have liked to ask the Minister the same thing. Of course, I am very much in favour of these positive measures. I am also very much in favour of measures that mitigate the negative impact of US sanctions on companies. But it may well be that in the end it will help in particular if the United States refrains from doing that extratorri... extraterritorial work that we do not want; it was almost right at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u231	We could call it ETT, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u232	We'll come up with another word for that. What I mean is: are we prepared to take tougher measures of our own against those policies of the United States referred to by our Prime Minister as being rude? We do so in the case of steel and aluminium, the Minister just said, but do we do so here? Are we prepared to do that? I am prepared to wait for what the Minister writes about this in the letter, but she may want to say something about it now too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u233	I've answered the last one before. I don't think it's in our range right now. If an ally withdraws unilaterally from a treaty, that is the law of a Member State. We regret this, we are committed to dialogue, we hope for change. It's not real, but you can give it different adjectives. In any case, this is the reality. We are now committed as the EU and others to maintaining the JCPOA and all the elements we have been given. The steel story is a different story, because that is a violation of WTO rules. We have regulations for that again. So we are in our international law to take rebalancing measures and create other safeguards. I do not think that is appropriate in this case. We can make sure that we get our act together as the EU and see how we can move forward, but always in the political context as outlined by Mr Blok. I was with this, I believe, at the end of all variations on the blocking statute and what the Netherlands can do: a letter, promised anyway, active contacts with the business community and also information to this Chamber, so that you can also properly serve and inform your own contacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u234	Fine. You don't have any other questions? Then let me look at the Members to see if there is a need for a second term. I don't know if it's customary here. Yes, there is a need for a second deadline, because a motion would also be tabled. A lot has been said, a lot has been interrupted. Is there a need? Then we'll just walk down the line, briefly. Mr Ten Broeke has given up on this. I call Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I am using my second term to address Minister Blok once again with a plea to take an extra step. I would like to tell him that diplomacy is not just about carrying out what is realistic. Diplomacy is my eye, after all, to ensure that what seems to be an option now becomes realistic. I'd like to call on him to commit himself to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u236	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u237	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a motion to get out of that spiral of growing words, harsher sanctions and more war. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the US has terminated the nuclear agreement with Iran;]] [[Considering that the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, in response to this, has made sordid statements on nuclear weapons;]] [[believes that it is very important to prevent a nuclear arms race in the Middle East;]] [[Whereas, in the recent past, a conference on a Middle East free of weapons of mass destruction was prepared but never held;]] [[calls on the Government to use the Dutch membership of the UN Security Council to look for opportunities, in the Security Council and beyond, to arrive at a conference on a weapons-free mass destruction zone in the Middle East,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u238	Who could be against that, I'd say. So I expect broad support. Mr. Chairman. I do have one more question for the Minister. We know that behind the suffocating theocracy and the oppressive system many Iranians live longing and fighting for bread, jobs and freedom. Everyone here also knows that some people do not want to see it, but everyone knows that blowing up that atomic deal or imposing harsh sanctions and even hitting regime change will not help these people. On the contrary, it threatens security, it threatens their future prospects and it affects us. That is why I am pleased that the Minister says: for us, keeping this deal on top of number one. I would like to ask him clearly for a ruling. Is it true that he doesn't make the hard link with additional requirements...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u239	You've really run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u240	... and that he's using this to stay in conversation to talk about the other problems as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u241	Thank you. I'm looking at the list. Mr Sjoerdsma, D66, for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u242	Mr. Chairman. I actually thought that Mr Van Ojik best outlined what is at stake today or what is at stake with this deal. That is our security vis-à-vis or perhaps alongside a future for Iran's youth. Perhaps that makes the American decision all the more sad. It's a real classic lose-lose situation. I myself am very pleased with the attitude of this cabinet, both with the way in which we are now trying to maintain the agreement and with the way in which we are trying to see what we can do about Iran's disastrous role in the region and Iran's ballistic missile programme in addition to that agreement. Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Bisschop, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der I am very grateful to Mr Van der Staaij for showing his willingness to amend that motion. My name will be underneath it. I can only encourage attempts to persuade Iran to play a more constructive role in the areas I have just mentioned, and I am glad that the Chamber has managed to organise itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u243	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Let me take a look at Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks. I give him the floor for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u244	Mr. Chairman. Be realistic, demand the impossible. I don't remember exactly who said it, but I always thought it was a very nice statement. I think that it applies very much to Mrs Karabulut's motion and the way in which the Foreign Minister reacted to that thought in the first term. When something's realistic, when everyone finds it, it doesn't really have to be anymore, does it? That's when it happens. And it is not the first time that we have this kind of debate with the Foreign Minister in which he says: what you are asking is not realistic. Yeah, but who'd have thought...? I am not going to do all that now, because I cannot go back too far from you, I am sure, so I would really like to call on the Minister to make an extra plea for what might not be realistic in his view, precisely for that reason. My group also supports the government's line in so far as it is aimed at saving what remains to be saved from the nuclear deal. Who could be against that, you'd almost say. But if the deal is saved, let us hope, without the US participating, it is essential that the sanctions do not affect the investors who want to invest but are deterred by the uncertainty alone, regardless of the concrete measures that surround these investments. That is why I look forward to the letter promised by the Foreign Trade Minister and I hope that she will look at the wide range of possibilities. I tried to summon her to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u245	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Then I look at Mr Van der Staaij with a new, modified motion, I think. We've all been looking forward to that, so we're curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u246	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. It seemed to me, for the sake of clarity and also of the possibility of co-signatory, that it was good not to activate Mr Bishop's motion now, but simply to table a new motion. This motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United States is withdrawing from the nuclear agreement (JCPOA) with Iran;]] [[Considering the European Union's efforts to maintain the commitments within the JCPOA and to protect trade between Europe and Iran;]] [[Whereas the EU would be well advised to recognise that, inter alia, in view of the Iranian ballistic missile programme and the financing of terrorist organisations, a constructive attitude by Iran in the Middle East is desirable;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to seek clear agreements with Iran on the non-enlargement of the ballistic missile programme, on the no longer financing of terrorist organisations and on nuclear non-proliferation, including after the conclusion of the JCPOA Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Bisschop, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Rooijen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-468]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u248	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mr. De Roon, you're canceling the second term. Mr Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u249	Madam President. I would like to thank the two directors for their reply. I have another question for the Minister, who said something about China and Russia in a sub-section, aside. I would like to know about him, because there were two parties to the deal, whether there are contacts with China and Russia, and what these contacts so far, if they are now taking place. Then a question to the Foreign Trade Minister. In the letter we are already receiving, can the Minister also promise that companies that are or want to become active there will not only be able to obtain information through the portal of the embassies, but that they will also, as soon as there is more clarity about the latest state of affairs and at the time of its approval, organise meetings with those companies that are or want to come there, probably especially in the Netherlands? Finally. I listened with admiration to the short lecture on that "blocking statute" of hers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u250	Then it wasn't for nothing. It would have been Mr Kuzu's turn if he had not resigned from the rest of the debate. Then I come to Mr Van Helvert for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop's motion is actually saying what we can do in the debate, and that is to put the government in a position where it can make the best possible effort at European level to reach agreements on the ballistic missile programme, on financing terrorist organisations and on nuclear non-proliferation. That's actually what we're saying here. That is why I think it is right that we should vote in this Chamber and that it should be supported so widely, because that is a clear signal that the ministers can get on the road. Completely sealing how and what exactly, we cannot here in the Chamber. We should not do that either, because in my view we cut back on the possibilities of the ministers who have to do this important work. I would like to ask the Minister to go into a little more detail and perhaps a little more detail. The Minister sometimes responds in general; then I am talking about Minister Blok and how we are dealing with these intelligence services. I have spoken about the Israeli intelligence service which has provided information on Iran's nuclear programme prior to the nuclear deal. Is this a violation or not? I have also spoken about the German intelligence services, which say very clearly that materials and know-how for the development of weapons of mass destruction are still being sought. Recently! So it's really from recently, not from 2016. And I spoke about our own intelligence service, which came out clearly two weeks ago and said: we are shopping here for weapons of mass destruction products. Can the Minister say whether this is also on the back of the cabinet, what we are going to do specifically with this and whether there is more threat? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u252	Thank you. I'll take a look at the two rulers. Do you need any more time? Or can you answer right away? Yeah? Then the floor is for Minister Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ploumen called for an extra step. I have indicated that I am happy to do so, in a European context. I believe that an interesting motion has also been tabled on this subject. Mrs Karabulut has tabled a motion calling on the government to use Dutch membership of the United Nations Security Council to explore the possibilities in the Security Council and beyond to reach a conference on a mass-destruct zone in the Middle East. I have already indicated that I understand the wish, but I do not think it is realistic at the moment. In addition, the UN Security Council would not at least be the place to raise this issue, because this is a process that runs through the Non-Proliferation Treaty. It is two considerations which lead me to conclude that this motion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u254	I'm still gonna try to change the Minister's mind. It also says "and outside." The Minister certainly does not have to do it through the UN Security Council if he knows another, better way. And two: the time is also open, of course. I'm not saying the Minister should do that now. Of course, he has to start the efforts, but if the Minister wants to pick that up in a few months, fine too. As long as this effort is made. So I hope to have removed the Minister's objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u255	Point is clear. I call Mr Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u256	No, Mr President, I am afraid that the situation is still that I understand the wish, but I must also give an assessment of the realism of that wish, and I fear that this is simply not one of the real possibilities at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u257	But, Mr. Chairman, seriously. Then the Minister can just say, "I don't want to do this." He says now: I understand the wish, but well, it's not realistic. No, yeah, definitely not. An atomic deal with Iran was not considered realistic either. A peace agreement, disarmament is never supposed to be realistic. Still, we're working on all these goals. I believe that the coalition agreement also states that we are working on a nuclear-free world. Every time the Minister refers to the non-proliferation treaty. This is happening now. There's a risk of an arms race. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dus niet anders dan constateren, omdat ik alle bezwaren van de minister heb genomen, dat de politieke wil blijkbaar ontbreekt.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u258	Point is clear. Minister Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u259	Now Mrs. Karabulut wants me to say I don't want to. I have stated in detail that this is, of course, something everyone wants. My opinion was on the feasibility of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u260	But once again, I leave it entirely to the Minister how and when he will do this. Completely!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u261	It would be fantastic: a world in which, if you choose the right moment, you could achieve a nuclear agreement or another great peace agreement in the Middle East. I'd love it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u262	But, Mr. President, if the Minister says he agrees with the objective...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u263	No, Mrs. Karabulut. We're gonna wrap this up, 'cause I'm looking at time, too. Your point is clear; you have made your point. The Minister has indicated very clearly how he is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u264	I find it shocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u265	I think it is very clear and I do not have the impression that you will meet soon. Mr Blok has the floor for the follow-up to the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u266	Mrs Karabulut also asked if she had understood correctly that I did not want a hard link between the JCPOA and other concerns and wishes towards Iran. That's right. I think they are all very important, but it does not contribute to a solution to make them one hard-hitting whole. Mr Sjoerdsma quite rightly noted that nuclear proliferation in Iran poses a direct threat to Europe, to the Netherlands, and that it makes our position really different from that of the United States. Mr Van Ojik asked me to join in the slogan 'be realistic, demand the impossible'. That's a Che Guevara slogan. The Dutch foreign policy under this minister will never be based on slogans by Che Guevara.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u267	Minister Blok, I believe this calls for interruption. Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u268	I completely forgot who that verdict came from. So I'm very glad the Minister reminds me of that. However, I would like to ask a serious question about the motion. It is very often about the concept of realism. I understand it's late, but I co-signed Mrs Karabulut's motion. Let me be clear: this motion asks "to look for ways to organise a conference." And then the Minister says: totally unrealistic. It cannot be the last word of Dutch foreign policy that you say: the search for opportunities to organise a conference is totally unrealistic. That can and will not be with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u269	Nor is it a question of organising a conference. We can do that. It is a question of organising a conference on the release of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. That's what I gave my judgment on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u270	You're not getting any closer. Minister Blok, you continue your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u271	Mr Van Rooijen asked for contacts with China and Russia. Contacts with China and Russia are conducted through the E3 and the High Representative of the European Union. There is also a very complicated playing field. I do not need to explain the complex relationship with Russia, and China is, of course, a major importer of oil and therefore has specific interests. At the same time, what binds us is that we all, the European Union and these two countries, have traditionally supported the JCPOA and that we are still looking for a way to keep it alive with them. I can't make any predictions about the outcome here, but about the stakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u272	An interruption by Mr Van Rooijen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u273	I didn't ask about that prophecy either, and I went out of that bet. My question was whether there are any contacts via the E3 and whether there is anything to be said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u274	Yeah, I hope I answered that this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u275	I thought that was rather vague, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u276	But your first question was: are there any contacts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u277	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u278	I said that in the first period and thirty seconds ago: yes. I also indicated the route along which route. I'm afraid I can't tell you about any of that, because there aren't any of them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u279	But is there a willingness to have a good conversation, or is there only good contact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u280	Those good conversations are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u281	Yeah, but I mean by "good conversations" there's some... They're co-signators. Are they still fully behind that? Of course, that's what I'm actually asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u282	That's what I indicated, too. What binds us is that we support this treaty. What makes it complicated is the difficult relationship between Russia and the European Union and the fact that China is a large net importer of oil, which Iran happens to be another major exporter of. The interests are therefore very different. But honestly, I've already told you all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u283	Thank you. Did you have any other points?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u284	President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr Van der Staaij and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 468. It does indeed take the right tone, which calls on the government to seek clear agreements with Iran at European level on the non-enlargement of the ballistic missile programme, on the no longer financing of terrorist organisations, and on nuclear non-proliferation even after the JCPOA agreement expires. This motion is policy support. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber on that. Then Mr Van Helvert. I've been able to look up the verdict of the STUDY. That was the statement that a number of countries, including Iran, are making clear efforts to obtain information on weapons of mass destruction, and that the Netherlands must be very vigilant. The question is what consequences the government will have. There is a comprehensive policy when it comes to cybersecurity. This is generally also the route by which information is sought. Our services monitor the activities of different countries. That is also the reason for this communication. Exactly what they find, they can't tell by the nature of their work, but what they do tell us is that they are specifically monitoring these countries, including Iran, and that that is why. I say this without having a strong indication that Iran has acted in violation of the nuclear agreement. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u285	I believe that Mr Van Helvert has another interruption. Go ahead, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u286	The Minister indeed answered the question I had asked in the first term. He would come back to that in the second term. In my second term, I asked: would you look a little more broadly at these services? I have also spoken about the Israeli secret service. It has provided information on Iran's secret nuclear program for the atomic deal. The question is: have the agreements been broken or not? Iran has not given full disclosure. Is there a violation? How does the cabinet see that? I also reported on the German intelligence services. The Minister said that this was the latest news in 2016, while two weeks ago it was discussed extensively in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u287	The point is clear. I call Mr Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u288	That's a question I just literally answered. I have said that activities have been observed, but that we have not been able to observe any violation of the JCPOA Convention. You can literally find that in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u289	A second follow-up question from Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u290	If I haven't listened carefully, excuse me for that. I understood from the answer that the Minister was talking about questions about the STUDY. But I understand that the same answer applies to the knowledge given by both the Israeli and the German and Dutch intelligence services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u291	Check. We haven't been able to detect a breach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u292	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u293	Then your question has been answered and Minister Blok has come to the end of his reply. I'm looking at Minister Kaag. You still have a few questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u294	I can be very short. I confirm once again that, not only through the embassy, but also here, through the RVO portal, we have already begun to provide active information to companies. Because there are still companies that talk to officials on the apparatus when they apply for a permit. But there's a system for it. We are also going to amend the trade manual with Iran in terms of laws and regulations. So the whole palette of possibilities is deployed, not just the embassy contact. The second point was made by Mr Ten Broeke. That was about SWIFT. SWIFT; that was your question. That was a good one. But I'm gonna take a look at public resources. There is indeed a threat to a payment system like SWIFT. Of course, it's going to be the new world we live in. A salient detail, the only thing that is relevant now, is: Swift also has a data centre in the Netherlands. There are data centers in the Netherlands, Sweden and the state of Virginia. The option of U.S. sanctions is: if SWIFT does not comply with the rules, then measures are also taken against individuals involved in SWIFT as a system; it is a protected system; however, it is an open data centre; or against financial institutions using SWIFT. So the net's gonna be really big. This is for info and for feedback. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u295	Thank you, ministers. We have come to the end of this debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-14.u296	A number of motions have been tabled. The vote will take place on Tuesday. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input, I thank the directors for their reply and I thank any listeners and viewers for their interest.
