ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for Justice and Security. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Today's debate is on the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u2	I have received written answers from the Minister for Legal Protection, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr Baudet, I actually wanted to give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u4	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u5	A point of order. Yes, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Last night we received the message from the Secretary of State for Immigration and Asylum that he is not yet able to answer the questions about the Marrakesh immigration pact because there is still no legal analysis of what the implications of this pact he wants to sign. We had hoped to discuss it today. I conclude from this that this cannot be done, that we cannot talk about the Marrakesh Pact and its implications. So I would like an indication from the Secretary of State when those answers will come. He wants to sign this pact on 10 December and we just need to know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u7	Your point is clear. It's possible. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to reply briefly. No discussion, so just indicate when those questions could be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u8	Madam President. I cannot mention a specific date here. But I realize that the session in Marrakesh is on Monday 10 December and that, if the Chamber wants to talk about it, it will have to be at the latest by the week before. I therefore agree that all the information necessary for this is available at the beginning of this Chamber week. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u9	So before December 10th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u10	That's the week of December 3. I'm doing my best to send it so much sooner and then it would be in the next week. But I have already made a written commitment that it is at a time when the Chamber can discuss this with me and draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u11	Then that's clear. Thank you. Then we move on to the first term on the part of the government. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u12	Madam President, thank you. I would also like to thank your Members for the many questions that have been asked about the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security. One of the most important questions for every Minister for Justice and Security is the question asked by Mr Van Nispen on Tuesday evening: what does the Minister think of the rule of law and the rule of law? That is a question that I may ask myself again every day. I should also like to say quite frankly that after the debate I also spent the remaining part of the night on this. All things considered, my opinion is that the Netherlands is a well-functioning, stable rule of law. I am not concerned with all these lists of international competitions, where the Netherlands is almost at the top of the list. The article with the overview, which Mr Groothuizen handed out in his first term, already indicates that. No, what matters to me is the foundation of this: our separation of powers, an independent judiciary, a government that performs and is accountable, and a controlling, critical parliament. As far as the latter is concerned, here in this house it is ultimately decided what happens in the areas of care, education, social security, defence and all the other essential public services, not to mention justice and security. In doing so, there is a good limitation of responsibilities. That is how and why our democratic rule of law functions. But the rule of law is a precious asset, because that is the core of the balance between individuals and society. It is also the balance between justice and security. I have said a number of times in the past year, including in your Chamber, that in an unsafe society you cannot achieve justice. While we are close, within the European Union, to developments that are of concern to us, justice and security in the Netherlands are well balanced. We see this in public confidence in the police, justice and other constitutional institutions. We see it in the increasing sense of security among citizens and in an actual drop in "ordinary" crime. But we also see developments that are of great concern. New forms of crime, such as internal summits, care fraud and money laundering, are growing alarmingly. In addition, judicial authorities have a lot of work to do on terrorism and related crime, and organised criminal links, such as outlaw motorcycle gangs, seem to be becoming increasingly active. Yesterday there was a very big raid on such a gang. But such a course is only one element in what I really see as the greatest threat to the balance between justice and security in our society: the undermining crime. Undermining crime is organized crime that nestles in common neighborhoods, between farmers, citizens and outsiders, and which is sneaking into the foundations of our society. It is particularly about the drug industry. The interests of this drug industry are enormous. Mr Van der Staaij has already referred to this. The Netherlands is perhaps the largest producer and exporter of synthetic drugs. That alone is a billion-dollar business. On top of that, the Netherlands is a large market and an important distribution point for cocaine. In recent years many tens of thousands of kilos of cocaine have been seized in the Netherlands and our neighbouring countries, all destined for the Dutch market or for resale by Dutch traders to other countries. It is an industry that generates huge criminal profits far beyond our borders. In many countries that are far away, you think of Australia, where there are large markets. In these huge interests at global level, there is an important cause for the hardening of crime that we also experience internally. Mr. Chairman. I will just mention three examples, because we still have a long day, but still. I refer to those inexperienced home-grown shooters who, for a small amount, are prepared to kill and also make innocent victims. Think of the boy who was just doing welfare work at Wittenburg in Amsterdam and "accidentally" was shot. I'll mention the threat to the media. We've seen some worthless examples. I shall come back to this later on in response to questions from Mrs Kikkie, among others. We're seeing threats from prosecutors and threats from drivers. One last example I mention is dumping drug waste in nature or in the middle of residential areas, with all the fire, explosion and poisoning hazards. In 2017 alone, we had 86 of these dumpings, and that number is increasing every year. What do we see? Those underworld figures, through this undermining crime, are marchanting their way up to the top world. With criminally earned money, they buy half invisible and unnoticed prestige and loyalty. They pose in the upper world as cool guests and even as new benefactors, who finance football clubs or do so much for charities, but all that with the help of wrong, criminal money. And there's a lot of criminal money. Mrs. Helder pointed that out. Last year 16 billion was laundered in the Netherlands. That criminal money has a huge impact. Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union also pointed out the consequences of drug crime. I myself have witnessed what it does to very ordinary people in very ordinary neighbourhoods. I know that the permanent Chamber of Justice has also gone to the country a number of times to see for itself. Another important question has also been raised by Mrs Helder. That is a fundamental question. How are we going to close the gap between government and citizens? I am deeply aware of the fact that people in ordinary neighbourhoods are often confronted with this and intimidated by it. These are people who just want to participate in Dutch society, go to work, take care of their children or their parents, have education and just want to get started. I saw it in Eindhoven and I saw it in Blerick. I saw all kinds of people out there getting intimidated like that. And if you're not careful, those people can succumb to wrong choices for easy money. This can be a teenager who has a choice between filling courses or running drugs for much more money, but also a notary, a real estate agent or an owner of a car rental company. It could be anyone who is involved in a lucrative transaction that he knows is not right. Otherwise, there is still the intimidation and threat to the criminals of the same vulnerable citizens. For example, a person on welfare benefits dares not refuse if it is said that he or she should only give up an attic for the storage of drugs or for a weed plantation. There are also farmers who are just hard at work to keep their heads above water and do their things, who, under threat of violence, make their barns available. If we let that behavior go unpunished, if we don't go against it, it will become a kind of new quasi-standard if we don't be careful. Here is really an important part of the social disruption, because people become uncertain about what is and what is not normal and what the government does for them. And it shouldn't be. Mr. Chairman. Undermining is a serious and persistent problem which threatens to become deeply rooted in society. It's called that because it really undermines the rule of law. This cabinet represents a secure society. I told you at the beginning: without security, no justice, but without justice, no security either. Mr Van der Staaij asked me how I am going to reverse that trend, which I can of course tell a nice story about. I cannot promise that I will undo a situation that has arisen over the past few decades in just one cabinet period, but I would like to say that it is the most important priority and commitment for me. That is why this cabinet is fully committed to combating undermining, repressive and preventive. I wrote to your Chamber that we put 100 million in an anti-undermining fund and made 10 million structurally available every year. We are also working on legislation that will improve the ability of all parties involved on the government side to combat undermining and also facilitate greater cooperation. In this way, with a focus on the criminal drug industry, we increase our impact in the fight against undermining. The right follow-up question is, of course, how we decided what to do. We have opted for a development of multi-annual plans from the bottom up. We have asked the various security regions in the Netherlands to come forward with proposals to tackle undermining crime in their own region, city or neighborhood. People have actually come up with very good plans. A common thread is the strengthening of the intelligence function, as I call it, so knowledge and know-how. But also the mainports and the outdoor area are very often in the scope. Not only should we look in the neighbourhoods, but we must also ensure that the drugs are not already imported into the port. We also make extra money available for a resilient government and society. The information sharing is a very important point in all of this. This is first and foremost important if we are to be able to properly unveil the resulting issues, such as the flow of criminal money, but also to be able to act even more vigorously. I therefore agree with Mrs Kuik that a Law Bibob is not enough in this respect. For this reason, there are several other pathways that improve information sharing, including the legislative proposal for data processing through collaborations, so that better cooperation can be achieved within the framework of these partnerships, within European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u13	Last night, I saw the answers to the questions that I asked about Bibob legislation, which is still before us, and which, on the contrary, does not provide sufficient answers to information sharing needs in order to stop organised crime. I have, of course, also put it to a number of mayors and asked them: what do you think of these answers? The answer I got was "bummer."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u14	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u15	The urgency is missed. My question is: why do we have to wait until spring? Why can we not anchor that in the first tranche of legislation, so that it does justice to the questions that lie and the suggestions that have been made by the mayors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u16	Look, the Bibob Act is, in any case, a far-reaching instrument in law. It's my job to guard that. The extension of more mutual information sharing is a fundamental point in this respect. All I have to do is point out the privacy laws. It requires a very careful weighing. For this reason, this aspect is considered as part of the second tranche of legislation, which also takes into account Mrs Kikken's idea of establishing a national Bibob register. Why did we do it like this? So that at least the first tranche is not delayed. I really don't want that delay with the second instalment either. I would like to say to Mrs Kuik that I am really on top of making that happen quickly. But we do need to take care of this, otherwise we will put the horse behind the cart and come up with legislation that the European Court says is contrary to privacy and personality rights. I explained that to the mayors in the various gremia in which I speak to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u17	If I sit on top of something, everyone sits still and nothing happens. The moment I push something, we move forward. My concern is that we wait a very long time for research and that nothing happens afterwards. Is this second tranche of "I'm looking for an opening "I'm sure I'm prepared? Is it ready when the advice comes? Otherwise, I have to conclude that we're moving too slowly. If we are already preparing, at least I know that we can shoot right out of the starting blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u18	I'm sorry if the "on top" created the wrong picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u19	That's wrong, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u20	Then I'll learn that it's a good idea to say I'm behind it. I'm so behind it, I'm watching it. I really want to say to Mrs Kuik that we are indeed working on the second tranche of the legislative proposal. So it's not like anyone's gonna look at it until next spring. I want to have said that out loud, go after it forever and keep an eye on it forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u21	I would just like to comment on synthetic drugs. The Minister says he's really gonna do it. I also believe that that is his intention. At the same time, however, the report warns that it is always stalled or that there is insufficient urgency. That is why I am curious when the Minister intends to come forward with a further response to those findings of Professor Tops and others in that report. They talk about very specific points such as Chinese-Dutch chemical circuits, where the Netherlands is still too little on top, and about other points. When is this response expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u22	I am perhaps going to serve Mr Van der Staaij more at his beck and call than he had anticipated. I received a letter from the mayors of the G4, the four major cities in the Netherlands. They support this approach. They have indicated that they want to work together in tackling the drug industry. That is very important to me for reasons that are, of course, very clear. That's one of the signals I've been trying to pick up lately. We really need to see if we've got the noses in the same direction. I have sent the plans that are now under way to the Chamber. I also explained that we are going to evaluate them periodically. That's a new way of doing things. That way we can adjust things in those plans as they walk. Last week I promised Mrs Van Toorenburg, in a committee meeting, that I would come in the spring with a letter on synthetic drugs. I will also address the thorny point of using the pills myself. That is a difficult point in our society, but I promised it at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u23	I would really like to know which subjects you are going to deal with, so that Members of Parliament have an idea of them and know what subject they may or may not be asking a question on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. I'll be on my own in a bit of a smooth transition to the police. Then I come to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to international cooperation and to the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security. And then I have another "All 13 right!"-like mix. It has been said, in my mind, that civil participation, road safety, large transactions and weed. Well, that's actually it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u25	Okay. I assume that during the discussion of these subjects the questions of the Members of Parliament will also be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u26	Yes. I promise you, I'll sit down after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u27	Good. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u28	I will ask one question, Madam President, which is about what the Minister said last. In his letter to the Chamber, he will also look at "a pill." So this is about the user. I think that's more of a health issue, because we've always made a distinction in drug policy. My fear is that we are slowly slipping into the war on drugs and not making the separation we have always made. May I have a confirmation from the Minister that the Secretary of State for Health is about the use? Can the Chamber also be informed about the direction the Minister intends to take at the UN Conference on Drugs and the revision of the international treaties?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u29	Let me get this straight. As long as we speak English, it's a war on criminal organizations. That's all I care about. The term 'war on drugs' has, in my view, been wrongly used, for example, to read the book of Narconomics because it is mainly linked to American society. The war on drugs was used under Richard Nixon and that society was very different from ours in terms of all kinds of basic issues, such as social security. I don't want to talk to you about that right now, but I want to talk to you later. Furthermore, the user issues are beyond my reach as Minister of Justice and Security. That problem really belongs to VWS. Let me be very clear about that; so so. As for the United Nations drug treaties, a conference will take place every spring in Vienna. I think that's where the Minister or the Secretary of State of VWS is headed; I want to get rid of exactly who's going. I shall therefore pass on requests to him on that point, because that is not up to me. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my speech. In any case, in the coming years, I want to force a decisive turn in the fight against criminal organisations, against undermining and against drug crime in our country and hopefully beyond. We simply need to move towards a safer society, but we also need to be able to operate the services that are covered by me. That is why I think it is a good thing that I give a picture of the investments I want to make. Let me start with the police, because investing in a safer society means investing in the police. And that's investing in people. First of all, the challenges facing the police in these new, almost completed national police forces call for a modern and agile police force ready for tomorrow's challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u30	I don't want to interrupt the minister immediately, but this is what's important. We just got the blocks that the Minister of Justice and Security is dealing with. But it would make sense for our own understanding if we also knew the order of the Minister for Legal Protection, and perhaps that of the Secretary of State. 'Cause there might be some overlap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yes. I would like us, the Members of Parliament, to have an overview of the issues being dealt with, not only by the Minister of Justice but also by the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u32	Should I give Mr Dekker the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u33	No, no. If it can be put on paper and distributed, it's fine. Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u34	It's all very well for that. Mr. Chairman. I had stuck to the challenges for a modern and agile police force. That is why, as we all know, the cabinet invests 291 million in a modern police force. This is extra, on top of the existing budget. The cabinet also invests, I stress, 91 million in increasing employability in the coming years. The operational strength of the police is thus structurally expanded. Mrs Helder and Mrs Buitenweg have asked for clarification. I've already informed your room about the reinforcements. How that falls down in the occupation on the street per day depends on decisions taken at local level, following specific security situations. The number of cops actually on the street is constantly changing. Mr. Chairman. I also pay great attention to the current workload, absenteeism and the PTSD problem within the police. I'm just saying, I'm concerned about that. Police work takes a lot of people. You may have noticed in the past year that I have also carried out a lot of this in public. I want to do that again here. I would even like to draw some extra attention to it. Mr President, I hope you will approve of my handing you a gift. I checked that this costs less than €50. It is a poetry collection made for the police by the Poet of the Fatherland, Esther Naomi Perquin. Maybe that's how the messenger gets this. I'm reciting one sentence from the bundle. It is a beautiful, also available for others in the shop. "It's not the violence you lie awake from, it's the choices you make." "It's not the violence you lie awake from, it's the choices you make." I would like to have said that for a moment, because that is at the heart of the dilemma. No matter how strong these policemen are, that's the fragile thing in the police soul. I would have liked to have brought that to the attention of the House once again. Now I give you something, Mr President, and I see, in this sintering season, disappointed faces among the members of the standing committee. But I've been thinking about them, too. Also on behalf of Chief Constable Erik Akerboom, I invite you to attend the theater performance Rauw, a performance dedicated to the difficult aspects of police work. When I say that I invite you, I will, of course, go with Mr Akerboom myself. If you're going, I'd still like you to go again. I've also been to Soldier van Oranje three times. They have now become three soldiers. I would very much like to do this with the members, because this says an incredible deal about police work. So an important theme, as I just said, is the workload and everything that surrounds it. That is why, in the terms of employment agreement, we agreed on safe and healthy employment. We are committed to reducing PTSD and reducing the workload. Every four months, that's a november, I'm going to have a personal conversation with the unions and the chief of police. Why? Because I want to show my personal commitment on that subject. I also think that you should monitor the progress of that kind of agreement with each other. So we just need to talk about this; we don't need to find each other in the media. In this context, I wholeheartedly support your Member Van Oosten's idea of also looking at the use of police volunteers in the fight against cybercrime, for example, in order to reduce the workload and broaden the police force. I want to answer right now that we are working on that. There are a number of pilots in preparation within the police where police volunteers are specifically deployed for these kinds of tasks, for example as a cyber specialist on the darkweb. By the way, I would strongly advise you to go through a work visit with police volunteers, as I have done. They're really hard to distinguish from professional, so good. Not only volunteers play a major role in society, but we must not always let everything depend on the police. We are also talking about alert citizens. There's a reason I've been working on undermining the active police reporting of remarkable things. If Mr Van Dam says that attentive citizens can make a welcome contribution to the detection of crime, I very much support that. Mr. Chairman. I have said a number of things about the police, but a number of Members, Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Den Boer, Mr Krol and Mrs Buitenweg, have asked for a response to the declaration readiness and the declaration policy in general, especially with regard to vulnerable groups. I suggest that everyone in the Netherlands should be able to report it to the police. The police are here for everyone. The police are also focusing on more and more citizen-friendly means of reporting. I went to Apeldoorn in August and met with a number of new means, digitally but also simply humanly, which facilitate the declaration. Anyway, I told you, the police are here for everyone. I have sent a report to your Chamber today to show that the number of declarations is increasing after an informative call. I think that's good news, but there's still a lot to do. I would like to say out loud that in the first quarter of 2019 the cabinet will present an action plan on security lhbti, which will focus on reporting or reporting discrimination or violence. I am really committed to this, because I find it unacceptable that this should be the case in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u35	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u36	I saw Mr Van Dam. Do you want me to keep going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u37	I don't know how...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u38	I wanted to say something about violence against women and children. That also has special...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u39	Then I'm going to see Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u40	I was listening and thought: the chapter on the police has been completed, but I still wanted to ask about that. The Minister calls on the Poet of the Fatherland that you lie awake from choices, but who makes the choices in the police field? I've seen the minister bet on dealing with cybercrime and undermining, and on the cop in the neighborhood. He knows how unhappy I am with certain choices made in the country. But who decides whether the cop on a base team, where the need is the greatest, gets close to the citizen? Does the Minister decide that, or does everyone in the country decide that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u41	That's a layered system. I should be making the resources available so that the police can make the effort, give training and so on. The local authorities in our system determine where the priorities are. Once every four years, we are talking about a security agenda, in which we are once again formulating the structural priorities that need to be given more attention. For example, the high-impact crimes were given high status a few years ago and this clearly led to a reduction in those high-impact crimes. Because it happens in this system precisely at the local level by the triangle consisting of the mayor, the prosecutor and the police chief, you can do the best things on the spot. In the meantime, Mr Van Dam...............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u42	I think this is a very important point because it is also very important in the context of the evaluation of the Police Act that is shortly to be discussed. If we were to have a debate here in the Chamber in which we would say that these basic teams should be strengthened and we wanted to make agreements on this with the Minister, but we would not actually be able to make these agreements, it would be very difficult. So that's why I'm touching this point. In any case, I would like to call on the Minister to keep the strengthening of these basic teams as a priority in that contact with those regional mayors in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u43	Two things. The first is that we are still going to discuss the evaluation of the national police. I think this is an important issue to discuss right there. Then there is the second point. In the National Security and Police Consultation, the LOVP, I have agreed with the local authorities that the choices are made on the proposal of the police chief of each unit. So I have made it very clear: let the chief of police give the direction in the first instance with his proposal. In any case, I think it is a subject on which we certainly need to discuss further when evaluating the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u44	I thought the minister was finishing the subject. That is why I wanted to talk to you about two questions that have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u45	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u46	Not yet? Then I'm gonna sit tight again 'cause then I'm not gonna waste my ten questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u47	Assuming we're still in the police block, I wanted to ask the minister about the knowledge and skill of the police. He has just drawn attention to the investments in the police, particularly in terms of quantity, more agents, which is, of course, very welcome after years of austerity. But it's also about the quality of the police. In the first term, I have already called for attention to be paid to the knowledge and skills of and more highly trained police officers in relation to financial and economic crime. Then I hear that there is also a commitment to money laundering. To be honest, that is a rather vague and lukewarm answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u48	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u49	So the question is, what's the deal with that? Is the investments at this point actually good with the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u50	That is a justified question which I should have included in my speech, because it is a good point that we should also be discussing here. There was a target of 20% HBOs in the search. A large part of the HBO functions relate precisely to specializations such as intelligence, digital detectives, cybercrime, financial detectives and forensic expertise. It's been realized. I have just explained this in detail in a general discussion on forensic detection. In some cases, we are at 84% of these functions, but, to stay with Mrs Kuik, I still have to look at them and look at them, no matter what I do. In other functions, we're even slightly above 100%. So I also really think that the police have done a good job with that, but we continue to bet on it. We also continue to focus on the quality of the Police Academy. We have also made additional funds available for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u51	That is good, but we also read in the newspaper this morning that the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings believes that the police are still doing far too little with digital means, for example. They actually look far too little at digital data carriers when it comes to, for example, tackling sex issues. So is the Minister also prepared to look at the knowledge instructions for the police in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u52	I am prepared to do so, in which I would like to give Mrs Den Boer as a very small postscript that I made 30 million extra available for cybersecurity in September last year, which also includes money on the issue of digital knowledge and resources expansion in the police sector, particularly with regard to sexual offences and, more particularly, with regard to children. Then I could pick that up in my text, but I'll wait for Mrs Buitenweg first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u53	I have a point of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u54	Even so. This is the third one today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u55	Not mine, huh? This is my first, frankly, in my entire career.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u56	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u57	Yeah, that's a really special moment, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u58	It's just time for cake!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u60	I think the minister finished the cup of police. I've got a little bit of a problem with this. For example, I have very specific...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u61	Just a moment before you move on. The minister hasn't finished the subject of police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u62	Oh, we'll get to it. Then I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u63	I think that's very good. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u64	Okay. I had stayed at the point of the vulnerable groups. I would like to stress that reporting and reporting always makes sense. I will continue to make every effort to ensure that the reporting process continues to improve. I would also like to say that we can still make a profit out of the victimization, and I stress that. I have mentioned women, children and Ibtis, but I am also thinking of older people, particularly vulnerable elderly people. I want to focus more on making the declaration process more user-friendly, especially digital. Mr. Chairman. You've been able to read that the Chief Constable is talking to the BOinK organization. That's an organization of parents who care about on behalf of parents of some abused children. The chief of police has said that, if there are such critical signals, he would like to talk about it. I also said it last year in connection with the Hoorn vice case. I've been very concerned about that. We have to get to work on that kind of thing. I also see from the police, not only in the police department but also in the people on the desks, that this is a matter of concern and that we are constantly trying to improve this. Mr. Chairman. I've taken care of the part of vulnerable groups now. The police will also face violence themselves. Violence against and hindering aid workers who work day and night for a safe Netherlands is unacceptable. A number of your Members have also asked for attention on Tuesday evening in the first term. The cabinet is working on criminalising the obstruction of aid workers. That's what's in the bill for the re-evaluation of current criminal acts known to your Chamber. Finally, last week I sent you the national police priorities for the next four years. I've already referred to that. That's the Security Agenda. The policy objectives of undermining, cybercrime and online child abuse, trafficking in human beings and execution contained therein enable the police to address future challenges. Then I'd like to move on to the following, but I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr Krol, is there a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u66	No, Madam President, just two more questions that have not been answered. I had a little idea about the special reporter. Does the Minister still want to think about that? A more important point is the picket message, which is now in force for the perpetrators but never really for the victims. I would also like another comment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u67	I will save that second point for a moment, if I may, for the second time, because I really need to think about that as well. As far as the first point is concerned, I have already indicated that we want to try to pay more attention to older people in and around the whole declaration process. We certainly need to look at what additional resources can be used for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you for this cautious commitment. I'll keep a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u69	Thank you. I don't count nice remarks as interrupting. It's not a good time for you, Mr. Markuszower! Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u70	My group has mentioned many times recently a motion which I tabled with the VVD and which I have taken on community service if violence against agents has been committed. I know how the Minister feels about that, so I've thought a little about it myself. That article of law states that, if rebellion, therefore, actively opposes an agent who has the effect of causing any personal injury, it is subject to the public service ban. How do you explain that difference when you're running on a cop with a necklace? Then you're not under the community service ban. My group finds that really indigestible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u71	Let us begin by saying that any form of violence against officials with a public role is unacceptable. I think we can agree on that. Violence involving any personal injury is already covered by the legislation restricting the imposition of community service obligations. These are Articles 22b and 181 of the Criminal Code. The formulation of a penalty requirement in each case remains customary, taking into account all facts and circumstances, including the seriousness of the fact, the social context, also the nature or vulnerability of the victim and the person of the offender. In the end, the judge shall impose an appropriate penalty. It is clear from research that this new legislation has worked in any case so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u72	That investigation also shows that the judges have walked a lot of the escape module in paragraph 3. I would very much like to limit that, but well, what bothers me in practice... Because customization, all at your service. And indeed, the D.A. can demand that, but it's about the judge who imposes it. That's what the law is for. Article 22b (1) of the current law simply states: if rebellion results in any physical injury, then the judge can only impose a prison sentence. In the case of assault, that's not the case. My group simply wants to see a change in that, very precisely: we want paragraph 1 of Article 22b to include simply abuse, i.e. Article 300 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u73	I should look at that and come back to it in the second term, because in itself that legislation like that has just been properly evaluated. So let's be careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u74	The minister's gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u75	I will say something about it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yeah, that's good. Mrs. Chicken. Mr Van Oosten, on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you to Mrs Kuik, because that is exactly the same point. If I am being very honest, I really do not understand both ministers on this point. Because, you know, I have a court ruling here. That's where it's just proven. Legally this is then qualified differently and leads to an attempted abuse. But what was going on? A police officer, an M.E. is on the ground. That's where someone comes walking, kicking him in the head so hard that the helmet flies off. So hard that the suspect at the time, later established as the perpetrator, even got a blue toe on it. Secondly, this is 'an attempt at abuse', which is the legal qualification, but in my words that is simply public violence, abuse of an agent in office, and the sentence may be limited to community service. I really don't get it. I would like nothing more than for the ministers to say: we have an article in the law, which is called the community service ban, and we are extending the scope of that article. That is my specific question. Then it is clear that this kind of behavior, this kind of insane behavior, which embarrasses our agents, cannot be tolerated with just community service and that at least a prison sentence must be imposed. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u78	There are a few things. I'll come back to this in the second term anyway. But at the beginning I said something about independent justice. I find it very difficult to say anything about a description by Mr Van Oosten of a case. I shouldn't do that either as Minister of Justice. I think it would be much better if, as Mr van Oosten and Mrs Helder said, we asked whether abuse should be covered by that article of the law. I will come back to that in the second term, but we really need to be careful to paraphrase court rulings here, whether correctly or not, and to ask ourselves what we think about them. I don't mean that wrong. I just want to say that I am positive about the idea of coming back to this in the second term, but let us just do it in abstracto.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u79	When the Minister comes back to that, I think it's useful to discuss it then, Mr. Van Oosten. Otherwise, you will always receive the same answer, namely that the Minister will return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u80	Yeah, it's fine to discuss it again. But I do object to it being said that I paraphrase what has been said. I'm just quoting from the verdict, and I'm showing what actually happened. I don't do that for nothing. We can try to translate it legally here; that is also our task and, in particular, the task of the Minister of Justice. Judges do indeed have that space under the current legislation. But if the effect is that there will be no jail time, then I simply find that we have not finished our work sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u81	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u82	I challenge the Secretary of State to that. Well, I wonder what we'll hear in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u83	Good. Then I'm going to... Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr President, I would like to say a very brief word about this. Of course, it's not quite like that, because in such a case, the judge says at some point: I qualify something in a certain way. So let's stay away from that individual case. Let's just find out that assault isn't in that article of the law. The question then is whether we think it wise to add that. We can have a good debate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u85	The third interruption, Mr. Van Oosten. Yes, your third question. No? Then I'll go see Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u86	Individual judgements lead to qualifications on the basis of which you tighten up legislation. I think that is what Mr Van Oosten means. The Minister has promised to increase the penalty for hate crimes, the violence against the Ihbtqi community. My specific question is as follows. The Minister announced that there would be an action programme in the spring. Are the consequences of this punishment and the grounds on which sentences may be made, including on the basis of individual judgments in the courts, included in that action programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u87	That plan of approach is what we are talking about: how we are going to deal with these specific forms of violence and discrimination. This means that we are certainly going to say something about possible special penalties and how that could work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u88	I conclude that there are a lot of intentions again. I am trying, together with the Minister, to push for progress, so that there will also be a concrete impact of the commitment made to increase the level of punishment and the grounds on which punishment can be pronounced. I really hope that is already reflected in that action programme, otherwise we will be another year before it is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u89	I take note of the concerns at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u90	I don't know who was on the Interrupt Microphone before. Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u91	Then I come to my point of order, Madam President. Perhaps that's addressed to you, too. 'Cause what am I supposed to do with it? We have asked a number of specific questions. Some of them have also been answered in the pieces we received. But I have asked, for example, about the operational expert, who is doing more and more office work instead of being on the street. I asked to what extent this would be at the expense of operational strength. There's no answer to that. What am I supposed to do with that? Because if I'm going to ask that now, that counts as a question, while I think I'm wrongly not getting an answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u92	I cannot judge that, Mrs Buitenweg, because I did not ask those questions myself and I do not know the answer either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u93	Well, then I hope the Minister will take note that I really want an answer to this. I'm gonna ask my question. It is about another question, to which a concrete answer has been given, namely how many police people are in the Netherlands every 24 hours. The FNV said it was 7,000. The minister says it's about 17,000. The FNV was talking about 7,000 per 24 hours, so there can't be a misunderstanding there. Is the Minister actually saying that the FNV has been making great nonsense and that the actual number of people per 24 hours is much larger? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u94	I'm not someone who says another party, person, or institution is talking nonsense. I understand very well that Mrs Buitenweg would like to have discussed my answer. If you only look at how many agents there are on the street, you will get a simplification of the police work, because that also has to be done on the desk and in the digital space. There are 167 so-called blue teams with an average of 100 to 150 employees. Then you get to 17,300 people. The police work 24 hours a day and these employees are therefore deployed in shifts throughout the day. The question of how the police are deployed has been raised with Mr Van Dam. That's something that's determined mostly locally. The calculation I received at my request from the Corps Command, I give here to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u95	I see your doubts, Mrs Buitenweg. You can think about it. Then I'll go see Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u96	D66 first called for attention to inclusiveness and diversity in security organisations, including the police. With the police there has been a program called The Power of the Difference. I see the Minister and the police have this evaluated internally. But what I think is so important is that this is evaluated externally and independently, in particular to learn lessons and share those lessons between security organisations. Is he willing to carry out an independent external evaluation to the programme The Power of difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u97	The national police is a very large and in all respects and units of adult organisation. Indeed, the power of difference is being evaluated internally. This internal evaluation has already led to a number of measures. People want to get to that 25% influx of employees with a dual cultural background. That goal has been achieved. I would like to assure you that I will discuss this internal evaluation with the police in detail and return to the Chamber. Actually, I was going to, but I'm just gonna say it out loud. I think it is perfectly right that you should say: I want to see how that went and what conclusions the Minister draws together with the corps leadership. I think that's just fine. I think it is much better than having to appoint another committee to look at it from the outside. Again, I pledge to do it as I have just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u99	Mr. Chairman. When I talk about essential services for my ministry, of course, I also think about the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office, as I say very clearly here, is truly an organization to be proud of. I have already said this in the context of another debate in your Chamber this spring. They're really driven, sharp lawyers and there's very motivated support staff. We have made additional investments that benefit the entire criminal justice chain, including the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Azarkan asked me about the workload and culture at the Public Prosecutor's Office. In all organisations in the public domain, workload is an important issue, including within the Public Prosecutor's Office. We take the signals about that seriously in the department. I'm talking to the D.A. about it, and I'm staying. This spring, you have seen that the College has taken seriously the problem of working culture, which was reported in the media at the end of May. The chairman of the college has made a round along the various parquets and has set up an independent committee-Fokkens. I would like to stress that this committee has received a very broad question of inquiry. She really needs to look in the open. You can remember that it initially focused on questions raised by a relationship between two persons in the higher ranks of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I really want to express my appreciation for the fact that the college has said that they are simply going to investigate it widely. In this context, I would like to say that, as I understand it, the investigation of the Foks committee is due to be completed by the end of the year. I understand this from the state's attorney's office. Mr Groothuizen asked himself that. I would also like to stress that the College has already taken measures in the context of the findings in the Zeeland-West-Brabant parish. In any case, the cabinet wants to wait and see what comes out of the report of the Fokkens Committee and how the college deals with it. Then I can answer the questions of the Chamber further. At that moment, I really want to talk to you about it. I think that's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u100	Is this the D.A.'s office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u101	Yeah, this is the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u102	Okay, then I'll go to Mr. Grotehuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u103	I asked the Minister how he is going to restore confidence in the Public Prosecutor's Office among the employees and also in society. I didn't ask that question without a reason, because there is a lot wrong. Yesterday, I knocked open the Volkskrant and fell pretty off my chair. I'll quote a sentence from it. A prosecutor says in the newspaper, "It's a great profession, in a fucking organization." This is an extremely loyal organization with very loyal people. But if they say this in the press, as far as I am concerned, the Minister cannot say: wait for the report of the Foks committee and I will think about how I will restore confidence in the prosecution and in the prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u104	I understand the question that Mr Groothuizen had on Tuesday evening. You have to have an external view, and then under the authority of someone with great authority like Professor Fowls, who plays in this wide field. That's not an investigation you're doing in a month or so. I know that in this turbo company, we want things to be instant. I think you should have this done very carefully. I shouldn't get involved in that either. I shouldn't open the door and ask, "Have you guys come this far?" That committee should just take her time. If I interpret Mr Groothuizen correctly, his question is now whether we can wait that long. I have said that this college in going concern, while things are going on, is very attentive to the matter. The chairman went through all the parquets. He has stood before the people on the soapbox and also received the non-willing points. I myself speak with some regularity not only with the College but also with the group council known to Mr Grothuizen, which includes the chief officers. I'll do it again soon. We're gonna keep the finger on the wrist. In the meantime, I remain convinced that it is an excellent organisation, also given their achievements. I must say that I also care if I read such an anonymous quote in the Volkskrant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u105	It's a long answer. My problem is not that the Minister wants to give time to the committee. I'm fine with all of that. The fact that he doesn't want to get in the way of the committee is fine with me. There's an acute problem, though. That was the moment officers bothered to go to the Minister of Justice to lay down their problems there. I had to read that in the press. Then I do not think the Minister can say that he will be working on the restoration of confidence once the Fox Commission is finished. He will have to take steps in this direction now, otherwise I can already predict that he will be able to put all those ambitions in the fight against undermining on his stomach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u106	Now we're going to go to some kind of doomsday scenario. I still think that the Public Prosecutor's Office isn't as messy as Mr Groothuizen is suggesting right now, because he does. I have just mentioned this to the College in the newspaper, too, that I think my door should be open if people want to express their concerns. I also told the people concerned that I would like to share these concerns with the college on a 'no names' basis, otherwise we will not be able to move forward. I think it shows that I too, and the college, and also the officer who said that in the Volkskrant, always get a good listening ear, but we always have to put that in the key to "how can we get on with this?' I support the option I have chosen, and that is that we are now quietly waiting for the report from Fokkens. Then we can see what the college says and does on the basis of the report. Then I can talk to your room about what we think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u107	The Minister puts words in my mouth. I didn't say the D.A.'s a crappy organization. I have said that there is an enormous problem of trust and that it is up to the Minister to resolve that trust problem. I still don't hear the beginning of a solution exactly how he's going to do that. I would point out to him that the prosecution plays a crucial role in the fight against crime. When the D.A.'s mostly self-involved, I believe there are now five parquets in which there is no more leadership, I wonder how we're going to see that in front of us. That is the question the Minister must answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u108	Really, the image that the D.A.'s mostly self-involved, I disassociate myself from that. I have seen a number of outstanding achievements recently, just by the Public Prosecutor's Office, a number of things that we will be discussing in the fight against terrorism, for example, and yesterday that very large coordinated action against that corridor, which you have read in the newspapers. You really don't do the D.A.'s office any justice. That's one. Two. I take the criticism to heart. I told the police at some point that I'm going to commit myself the way I just described. First of all, I would like to await the Fokkens report and the opinion of the College on what needs to be done. Then I can discuss with Mr Groothuizen here in this Chamber what is the wisest thing to do as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u109	This is, of course, about the prosecution, but I am afraid that we now have a much more fundamental and perhaps even more acute problem with the entire administration of the ministry that this minister is in charge of. Yesterday, it was said in the newspaper that almost 20% of the officials questioned in this ministry know examples of directors who have abused their power. Information that comes to the Chamber often doesn't add up, those officials say. It's being cheated on. It's being shoved under the carpet. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister what the Minister thinks of these reports, but also how we, as a Chamber, as a supervisory body, can still control the work of the Minister now that research has been messed with and cheated with this information. I would like to remind you that the three predecessors of this minister also had to leave because of the withholding of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u110	The latter is not true. Mr Blok has not quit because of withholding information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u111	Mr Opstelten, Mr Teeven and Mr Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u112	Minister Blok is still Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u113	That, too. They're all watching. Let's not start saying things that are just not facts. Then I would like to go back, because I would like to talk about Mr Markuszower's concerns. It is primarily up to the Minister of the Interior to respond to that investigation. It should be, because otherwise I would be here in the Chamber talking about what I think of my own officials, and that is not how it should be in good relations. That's one. The second is that Mr Markuszower was wondering how Parliament could control me in an appropriate way. I am convinced that the officials really provide me with information in an extremely good, substantive way. If it turns out that on my side there is a policy aimed at distorting information, then I think it is perfectly right that your Chamber should at least appeal to me strongly. But I must tell you that my officials are not at all affected by this. I have complete confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u114	Well, that's a nice thing to say, but 20% of the officials questioned at your ministry say that their directors order them to withhold information, to cheat on facts. Those are actually mafia practices in your ministry. Then surely a minister in this Chamber can't say he'll leave that to another minister for the time being? A minister in charge of a device where 20% says their directors are putting undue pressure on them, doesn't he have to act there? I mean, doesn't that bother the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u115	The Justice and Security Change project, which was launched a few years ago by my predecessor, who was not sent away by your Chamber, is a very good project, which has now also produced results. Unfortunately, no questions have been asked about this, otherwise I would certainly have discussed it further. We also really see that there is an open culture in the Ministry of Justice and Security that allows people to say things. As a number of Members of this Chamber have personally experienced, I myself receive officials but also others simply in my room and then I talk about things as they go and also about things that they may not like. It's an open culture that we all have to promote. I understand Mr Markuszower very well. And I certainly do not believe that there is a structural disinformation policy in the Ministry. Finally, I hope that Mr Markuszower will also have confidence in my own intelligence and critical capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u116	The minister has now talked about the police and the prosecutor's office. Soon we will talk about the legal profession and the case law with the minister's colleague. But I actually think it's too skinny so far. We are asking far too much of our agents and our prosecutors. Our officers and agents are working weekends late, there's high absenteeism, they're heavily overloaded. We're asking too much of them. This is actually very fundamental. Because what does it do to victims of a criminal offence if they immediately hear that the home invasion, the rape or the scam is not being investigated? And what does it do with officers and prosecutors who are heavily overburdened and can't do the job as they should and they would want to do it? The fundamental question to the Minister is: what is he going to do to restore confidence in the victims of a criminal offence in the rule of law so that their case is dealt with? And what is the Minister going to do to restore confidence to the officers and prosecutors, so that they have the confidence that the minister is there for them and not overloading them but letting them do their job?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u117	I welcome this specific question from Mr Van Nispen. What I'm going to do is invest a lot, also just as hard in money, in the police, but I've taken it up again in the Public Prosecutor's Office. There are a number of proposals in the coalition agreement which also lead to intensifications, such as the digitisation of work processes, the additional capacity, cyber security, the undermining crime. These are all parts where we come with additional resources and where, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office also receives additional resources. I agree with Mr Van Nispen's point that in a time of austerity savings have been made on a number of services for which I am responsible. That's what I've often said in public. By the way, the state's attorney's office is not a service. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. My predecessors are not in any way to blame for this. That had to do with the circumstances. But now we're in a different phase. You may appeal to me that I am actually carrying out the investments made by the cabinet, and that I am also in conversation. I understand from the unions that it's the first time that we've agreed to sit down every four months to see if it works, or if that workload is going down. I hardly dare to say it, but in anticipation of the Fokkens report, I think you should ask me how I am going to do this periodically to the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u118	I actually have a question about the previous block, but it fits in perfectly with this. I did not actually receive an answer to one question. It was about the long-term vision. I know that the Minister just said that this cabinet period is being invested in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but I didn't ask that. I understand that the Minister does not want to rule over his cabinet period, but neither did I. I asked for a long-term vision. Then I said that the police needed at least 5,000 FTEs to carry out their current duties. Why did I ask? Because in the past we were faced with a situation in which 3,000 agents had to be removed due to a previous period, and then a lot of tasks were added. Then you're gonna get into the kind of trouble we're in right now. It doesn't have to be in concrete, but could the Minister perhaps look a little further and reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u119	I believe that in the long term we should invest in a truly modern, agile police force. I also really hope that I can realize and experience it in this place. I said that last week at the Permanent Chambers Committee. This means that we really need to use these structural resources well and vigorously. For example, member Den Boer said: think carefully about the increase in knowledge in the police. Mr Van Dam has often referred to ICT. Several of you have said: keep an eye on that neighborhood cop. I believe that we should link all these things together and ensure that the future police are indeed fully adapted to this society. That's why I'm excited about the neighborhood cop who goes on the road in Groningen with his iPad in a backpack, and also about the people with whom I was in the van in the middle of the Netherlands and who could just record reports on their phone with the MEOS app on the spot. That's one thing. Another thing is that as far as crime is concerned, I have also said that we must continue to deal with ordinary crime, as I call it, which has fallen so much in recent years. Those are those high-impact crimes. But in addition to that, I have often said that, and I really want to place a turning point in organised undermining crime. That is a long-term vision to ensure that people who simply live in a quiet, modest neighborhood in Tilburg, Zwolle or anywhere else are not terrorized, but can live their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u120	The minister says I'm also investing in the state's attorney's office. But the Public Prosecutor's Office is still working on the cuts in previous Cabinets. Then there will be some money, but there are also tasks attached to it. The problem with that is that the basics, which I was just talking about, the people who do the daily work, actually have to do that work with less and less money, while it is becoming more and more complex. How is the Minister going to deal with that problem now? 'Cause I think that's the essence of the problem at the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr Van Dam and Mr Grothuizen have asked questions about the funding system of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I did not want to go into that in detail, but I would like to stress that in the funding system we do disconcil that, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office is also doing work that does not lead to hard files. I should like to mention this as the first point of departure. The second point I have just mentioned out loud. There have been cuts in recent years, including in the Public Prosecutor's Office. We're back to investing now. I am here to explain how I see the importance of the Public Prosecutor's Office and that I do want to talk to your Chamber if we know what has come out of the Fowls Committee and how it is to proceed. Then we should certainly continue to talk about whether we are making sufficient investments in the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. A safe society also requires vigilance against threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u124	I notice that the Minister is now moving to terrorist threat and is done with the D.A.'s office. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u125	Yes. Well, "ready with the D.A."... I took care of the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u126	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Well, then, I have a question. I asked a question yesterday about the request for legal aid concerning that fatwa against a Member of Parliament. A fatwa has been spoken against a Member of Parliament, Mr Geert Wilders. That's a death threat. I would have made this point here too if that fatwa, that death threat, had been pronounced against a member of the Green Left or the SP or anyone else. I think it is important for the Minister to make a public statement on what is going on here and for him to publicly address my question. The question was whether a request for legal aid was made by the D.A. to Pakistan. Is the imam who pronounced that fatwa against a MP a fatwa a death threat, an order to commit murder, in prison? It is important for the Minister to make a public statement about this. It is really important for this cabinet to stand firmly behind the security of the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u127	On a few occasions, recently in a direct debate with Mr Wilders, I have made it very clear that the security of parliamentarians is a very good thing for me. I don't give a damn what their mindset, their view or whatever it is. That is my priority, as are other pillars of democracy. I would just like to give an example to journalists. I'm not gonna go through a whole line with you right now. That's what I stand for. In Mrs. Chicken's jargon, I'm gonna keep chasing that. That must also be clear, and I would like to have said this out loud at your request, but I am not going to say anything about an individual case. I shouldn't do that, because that always affects the case in question. I'm not a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office; I'm the Minister of Justice. I hope that Mr Markuszower will understand that, especially when I first said that I do not think it acceptable that any kind of threats are made against parliamentarians by anyone. I have already said that in the press, but also in your Chamber. That's how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u128	I can understand for anything, but the Minister is ultimately in charge of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this case, I think it is important for the Minister to give a public answer to the question of whether such a request for legal aid has been made to Pakistan. I do not understand the Minister's unwillingness to answer that. One more thing: the Minister is free to mention individual matters. There are no laws, no legal provisions and no restrictions on the Minister's ability to express himself on individual matters. That may be chic, but this case doesn't deserve a chiqué, it deserves clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mr President, through you against Mr Markuszower, I believe that he and I share this view; in the context of the rule of law, the Minister of Justice should not comment on a case that has been reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I have made it quite clear here, and I repeat this once again, that Mr Markuszower understands in any case how I look at threats to Members of this House, that I find this unacceptable, and I will always express and oppose it where I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u131	Then we also have the link to the threat. The threat level of terrorism is still at level 4. You know that arrests were again made at the end of September, especially of those seven men who had advanced plans to attack the Netherlands. These are incidents that unfortunately again show that despite the fact that ISIS, Daesh, IS or whatever one wants to call it, the jihadist threat against the Netherlands has not diminished. Also worrying is the revival of the right-wing extremist movement in the Netherlands, as shown by recent publications by AIVD and NCTV. That is why we continue to invest in Justice and Security in our approach, in criminal terms and also in the preventive and repressive approach. There is an extra commitment to reintegration and deradicalisation. For the coming years, I also consider it really necessary to develop the current range of interventions and also to develop new interventions. The aim is to control possible risks by ex-convicted jihadists accompanied and controlled.......................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, it remains important to identify early risks and to keep young people and young adults on the right track. We are committed to this, also in close cooperation with local partners. Behavioural and freedom-limiting measures contained in the Law on long-term supervision of terrorist offences may also be part of this, so I answer Mr Van Oosten's question. Then there was a question about the appointment of the new National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security. I want to tell you... I see that Mr Van Oosten wishes to intervene, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u132	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u133	I would like to say that the appointment of this NCTV has been preceded by a very careful process. It is a heavy function, which requires a thorough assessment. I can assure you that the fight against terrorism, as well as the security of threatened politicians, is in good hands with the new NCTV. That's what I'm saying on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u134	Well, then I'd like to see if you were done with this cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u135	I would like to touch on the threat posed by Mr Van den Heuvel, but Mrs Kuik is not here right now, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u136	Then I would suggest that you finish this first. Mr. Van Oosten, you'll have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u137	Well, I see Mrs. Chicken isn't here and all I had left was a tip of hers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mrs. Kuik will be back soon, or else I'll see staff sitting there. And there are also Acts. So I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u139	Okay. Mrs. Kui-ken! Asked me about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u140	There she is, look!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u141	Well! I've been working out for a while. Mrs Kuik asked me about threats to the journalist John van den Heuvel. I'm very clear about that, too. Threats to journalists do not belong in our rule of law; I said that before. This is particularly true of journalists. The important role they have in the representation of the free speech must be cherished. I have, as you know, also steered the proposal for the protection of sources through the two Chambers, and that is not the only thing. More needs to be done. In the security of persons, therefore, the best interests of the person in need of security are taken into account. It must be able to continue to do its job as much as possible, but security must at the same time aim to create as much resistance as possible to the threat and risk as possible with minimal impact. There is a need to consider this at some point. I have already said in public that I understand, however disgusting I think it is, the balance that local authority in Amsterdam has made in this regard. I would like to emphasise that here. Mr President, I am now at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u142	Then I'd finish that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u143	No, this is the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u144	Oh, sorry, so this point is done. Then I will go to Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u145	Yes, and then I go back to a previous theme, namely the Long-Term Supervision Act, because we were just talking about that. At least the Minister made a comment on this. I raised that point in my first term because I hope that that law can contribute to the issue of the freed jihadists. I also had a debate on this with the PVV colleague. Now the Minister says: well, that can help. I find that remarkable. In fact, I have a letter from the Minister of Justice last week, which says nothing about that law, while referring specifically to another law, the Temporary Administrative Measures Act. So I'd like to hear a little more depth from the Minister. What can I really expect from that law? What contribution does that law make to the protection of our public order? For example, what measures does the law provide for the isolation of life-threatening jihadists who have not allowed their delusions to be deradicalized in any way, so that they can simply be expelled from our society and treated under duress until it has finally become safe? Then I find "it can contribute" as an answer to my question personally very lean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u146	That was not meant to be evil, because it was an answer to the question as it was. I would, however, like to assure Mr Van Oosten that, because he missed this in that letter and called for deepening on this point, I will come up with a further letter in which I will give details of how these various measures might relate to each other. It is a discussion that has also been mentioned by Mr Van Toorenburg in the general discussion of Terrorism a few weeks ago. I think it would be most useful to do so in an integrated manner with regard to the other measures that are possible. So I'm going to give you that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u147	Politicians and journalists are the balance in our democracy and the balance in free speech. Politicians need to be able to physically go to this house every day to express that free word. That's why I have such a problem with saying to a journalist: you can't physically go where you need to be in order to speak the free word. Despite the fact that I may have to understand it, I have a great deal of difficulty with the decision taken and the opinion given to Mr Van den Heuvel. I also asked the Minister where it ends. You're not gonna let him go to Pauw anymore? You're not gonna let him go to AT5 anymore? Once again, I ask the Minister what we can do to ensure that this journalist can continue to do his job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u148	Again, this is the decision and responsibility of the local authority, but I am going to support it; I do not want to sit on top of it in this case. I want to make it very clear that I understand the decision very well. Why? This was a recording site that had security risks for Amsterdammers or people who could get near that location. That's what we've been talking about. In the end, this led to a decision to establish a beam connection from the Telegraaf building for the time being. I fully agree with Mrs Kuik that this is not ideal and gives the wrong impression, namely that we need to give way. But I know that people have looked and are still looking at an alternative, good location. Of course, you need all the parties involved. I would like to stress that a mayor, a chief of police and a district attorney must consider the general security risks involved. In the meantime, I would like to say to Mrs Kuik that I am very concerned about the safety of this specific journalist too. That's why I contacted him. I certainly care, but there are also considerations to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u149	We are all concerned and have all been in touch, but this is the answer that is in fact contrary to the words of the Prime Minister, who said: we must be able to live our lives and we must be able to continue to do our job. By saying that someone can't be physically anywhere anymore, we're really giving way to criminals. I haven't had an answer to my question as to where it ends. Pauw is also a physical building. AT5 is also a physical building. That is why I say again that I understand that there are risks, but is it really not possible, just as we do with other buildings, to guarantee security so that this journalist can just keep doing his job?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u150	This is Leidseplein in Amsterdam. I understand in all reasonableness that the local triangle says that there are safety risks that cannot be seared in the balance; that is what I believe in jargon. Meanwhile, one looks at other possibilities and the possibility of a beam connection has been deployed. I think the Prime Minister and I are on the same page. We both say that you always have to make sure that you keep that free society with each other. In some cases, I find it a bit like that with security measures, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u151	Mrs. Kuik, this is the seventh question. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thanks for counting in, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u153	Yeah, that's kind of my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u154	Leidseplein, the Square in The Hague: all places where the free word is proclaimed. The moment we stop allowing people to say the free word, we have a really big problem with each other. I am very sorry to drag myself into this, but as long as I have to conclude that we do call and speak beautiful words, but are not able to get a journalist to do his or her job, we have a really big problem. Then democracy has a problem and the free speech has a problem. I find that really, really disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u155	That is, of course, my responsibility for safety, in this case the safety of Mr Van den Heuvel. And it is the responsibility of the local triangle for the safety of the population. Those are serious elements that you have to weigh up. I fully understand that responsibility is being taken. You have to take that responsibility, and that's what's happening here. So I think I've answered enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u156	Otherwise, the free speech will be restricted, especially with regard to immigration, with regard to the Marrakesh Treaty. But my colleague Fritsma will come back to that. I have another question for the Minister. I'm asking him for some action. I'll do that in one question, Mr. Chairman. Then I won't be bothering you anymore today. We must of course divide it up, with so many participants in the debate from the PVV. The Minister replied in writing to the viewers at home: we received a lot of answers to questions via the e-mail; for which he thankfully said he always wants to show decisiveness. Just now he also said that we must be able to continue to exercise the free speech and that the Netherlands must be able to be free. Soon someone will be coming to the Netherlands who is very busy with ideas and actions to restrict the freedom of people, namely the son of El Alami Amaouch, a hate preacher who is back in The Hague today. He has a Dutch passport and so does his son. His son's an adult now. His son was, and may still be, a jihadrone, a recruiter of jihadists. That son has in Vervier's house that is good to see on the picture, because there are statues of.............................................................................................................................................. Now he is of age and can come to the Netherlands, while he has committed a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u157	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u158	My question to the Minister is to act now by doing the following to keep the Netherlands safe and free. First of all, I ask him to request legal aid from Belgium so that this guy can be punished or at least tried. And then verse two: I ask for him to be denaturalized after his punishment, so that he loses his Dutch nationality and passport, and to evict him from the Netherlands forever, so that the Netherlands can indeed remain safe and free and is free of these kind of assholes. Is the Minister gonna do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u159	The message is known to me. To reassure you, I share with Mr De Graaf that we have good contact with the Belgian government about this case. Of course, we have a range of intervention measures that we can use when someone goes over the line, such as a number of administrative interventions under the Administrative Measures Act. I do indeed have the power to withdraw from the Netherlands if a person of dual nationality has been irrevocably convicted of a terrorist offence or if he has joined a terrorist organisation outside the Netherlands. In case of suspicion of criminal offences, such as inciting hatred or violence, the Public Prosecutor's Office has the opportunity to prosecute. Finally, I would like to say that you can rest assured that our intelligence and security services are constantly alert to those who threaten our legal order. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps some reassurance: I have already come to the other subjects I had left. So I don't need much longer from the time of your room. First of all, there is road safety. It is good that Mrs Van Toorenburg pointed out the importance of this and asked a number of questions about it. I sent a bill to your Chamber yesterday to deal with dangerous driving behaviour more strictly and to increase the penalties. For example, the maximum penalty for dangerous driving goes from two to six months, even in cases without injury or damage. In the case of very dangerous driving, this can even take up to two years. I would also like to come back to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question about people who repeatedly go wrong with drunk driving. I believe that Mrs Buitenweg had also pointed out this recidivism. Like your Chamber, I believe that people who drive under the influence of alcohol should be treated hard, especially when it comes to recidivists. One of these days, the Chamber receives a bill to increase, among other things, the maximum penalty for driving under the influence of alcohol from three months to a year. We are also investigating other possibilities, for example an additional skill test for people who have been denied driving after driving under the influence, but also the possibility of having a court ruling immediately. I aim to have that bill by the end of this calendar year, 2018 in consultation. Then there's the weed experiment. Mrs Buitenweg asked about its implementation. The preparation of the experiment is progressing well. There has been a lot of talk with, among other things, the VNG, i.e. with the municipalities, but also with the coffeeshop sector. The application procedure will start after the bill has been passed by the Lower House and the draft decision has been submitted to Parliament. I would like to stress once again that the overall duration of experimentation and phase-out can be six years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u160	The minister says I'm talking to the VNG. We know that the VNG was very disappointed with the general measure of governance. If the Minister talks with the VNG, is it possible that something will change in the general measure of governance? So is there any negotiating room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u161	Short but powerful: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u162	So it's a yes. That's good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u163	Go on, I'd say. Or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u164	Then... Where was I? An important topic is also the criminal test in high transactions and corporate arrangement. In June, the report Evaluation of the OM Act was presented to your Chamber. A policy response to the findings of the investigation is under way, which will be presented to your Chamber at the beginning of December. At present, there is extensive discussion with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice about the follow-up of the findings. These discussions also take into account the possible idea of judicial review as an alternative to the current forms of review in the case of high transactions and withdrawals by the Minister. I would like to say in this context: let us first discuss the outcome of the policy response here, as well as the outcome of the consultation with the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary, so that we are completely open when it comes to how we should do this in the future. That also seems to me to be in line with an earlier motion that your Chamber has adopted to discuss the procedure of high transactions with one another. There is another point: the issue of financial institutions. Banks, other financial institutions and trust offices must comply with their legal obligation to prevent money laundering. It's under surveillance. Violation leads to administrative or criminal action, I would like to emphasise once again very strongly. This also contributes to encouraging these institutions to fulfil their role as gatekeepers even better. There are, as your Chamber knows, a number of WODC investigations in the field of money laundering. As I announced last week in a general consultation, there is a policy response in the first quarter of 2019. At that time, I also said that it would be good to look at how we could possibly improve the regulation or compliance with the current rules even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u165	In the written answer, the Minister responded somewhat to my question as to whether there is class justice in the Netherlands. And I get that, because it's a big deal when you say that to a Minister of Justice. So it is good that he cares about that, but the Minister takes it too little, because he is only talking about the possible judgments of judges, while it is also about the preliminary stage. Now we're talking about the settlements. It's about what happens to the police and the state's attorney's office. Sometimes there are unconscious mechanisms. I have now received support from several scientists. However, it is also about, for example, access to justice. Is justice even there for everyone? If the Minister is so sure of his statement that there is no class justice, why not an independent investigation? This study was last carried out in 1999, and it was said: be vigilant and watch out, because developments are moving fast; keep a close eye on this. But that never happened. My thesis is that there is indeed evidence of class justice. Then why not investigate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u166	I had already said at the beginning that I did not really want to work with those lists, but I can hardly imagine that the Netherlands is in fifth place on a global comparison of 113 legal systems, the Rule of Law Index, unchanged. I would also like to say that the first four places are occupied by Denmark, Norway, Finland and Sweden. There might be something north in that Rule of Law idea after all. How about that: I think about the rule of law every day. I also come across enough things in this broad portfolio that really promote that thinking. I am not being harassed by such a question, nor is my colleague in the field of legal protection. The answer that Mr Van Nispen has received in writing has been taken up once again and I do not read any harassment into it. In itself, I think it is perfectly right that we always take the measure of each other if we have a fair system, but the important thing is that, in the regulation we have, we also take into account those points where we are wondering whether it is going well. That is why I believe it is important for us to enter into this debate on these high transactions. Shouldn't that be reviewed by a judge or by an independent committee or whatever? That's, I think, working on that Rule of Law Index, we're still going up a few places. As far as a general investigation into a yet difficult to define concept as 'class justice' is concerned, it is certainly my priority to focus on research into where it is concrete in the coming year. That's what I take the point seriously about. Fortunately, Mrs Den Boer has asked a question about international cooperation, because I have put a great deal of effort in this last year, because I am convinced that we have a great deal to gain from international cooperation for security but also for justice in the Netherlands. You can then tackle many more problems in their entirety and across borders and in the Schengen area hardly any borders. The Hazeldonk Pact of 2015 is a very good example that provides for police and judicial cooperation, aimed at coordination and coherence of each other's efforts, but also for the Benelux Police Convention, which has been renewed this year, and for the treaty we concluded with North Rhine-Westphalia and Belgium to work together in the Maastricht-Aaken-Liege border region on targeted information sharing in the field of crime. At EU level, I am a major ambassador to Europol and Eurojust agencies. Europol has also played a very good role in a number of recent cases in the Netherlands. And I have to say it in a subtle way, but I am also really proud that we now have someone on Interpol's central administration. I can even proudly report to my colleague Van Engelshoven that she is a woman. Eurojust is a collaboration between the investigation and prosecution services in the EU, which means that we really can see a lot further in international cooperation. And then I'll be at the end, after I say one more thing. At the opening of the new Eurojust building, I pointed out the scene from the French Connection II film in which Gene Hackman, an American drug fighter, arrived in Marseille to work with the French police in the fight against drugs. It's a hilarious scene, in which Gene Hackman uses a phone from the last century somewhere on a railing in a police building, and I mean the previous century by now. Now we just see that international cooperation really works, helps us further and provides more justice and security. This was my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u167	Of course, I know all the examples of international cooperation that the Minister talks about, but my question to him is as follows. He somewhat appeases us with the sentence: there is no contradiction between the rule of law and pragmatism. But when I look at the fuss over the last few days about the appointment of Interpol's new boss, and look at how democratic constitutional states are slipping in the European Union, I am certainly concerned about international police cooperation. Is the Minister watching this, too? What is the choice, to use that word again, that makes the Minister for the Netherlands for the future of international cooperation and is the rule of law sufficiently secure in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u168	My choice is to take the step forward, keep going after it. It is a good thing that, for example, the forced retirement of judges has been reversed in Poland. I do not know if that is going to mean a lot on all points, but we do see that it continues to appeal to each other and to remain in dialogue about that rule of law is the best thing to do. We also saw that at Interpol nominations. There was also some concern at your Chamber about exactly how the appointment procedure would end. That's where a Korean has been appointed. What I want to say, and I'm really going to sum it up, because then I'm ready: I think you should continue to engage internationally in dialogue, dialogue, convince each other and then work together. I'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u169	Since the Minister indicated that he was at the end of his reply, I would like to address a question about our concern to which we have received a written reply. On Tuesday night, I drew attention to the concerns of churches regarding the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation and its impact on the transmission of church services via the Internet. There are great concerns as to whether church life can be shaped in this way. The Minister of Justice talks with the Interkerelijk Contact in Public Affairs, I read as a response from the cabinet. That is now planned for spring. May I therefore assume that in the meantime no changes will occur in the implementation of the GDPR towards the churches? Would it be possible for me to receive a commitment on this from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u170	The point is, of course, that the GDPR simply applies. That is what the colleague for Legal Protection is about. Only this question has been put to me in my capacity as Minister of Honor. I would, however, like to assure you that I will bring forward this consultation, at least as far as I am concerned. I will not be able to speak for the Prime Minister, who normally runs it. But I will begin to discuss this earlier if I see that this will cause problems in the foreseeable future. So I'm gonna try to do that in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u171	I think that's fine. Let me just say for the record that the law simply creates a great deal of uncertainty, that there is therefore a great deal of uncertainty and that this is the subject of discussion. But it's nice to hear that the Minister is having a quick discussion about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u172	Thank you. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr. Secretary of State often says he has to be very precise in his response. He'll say, "I'm not a lawyer for nothing." But what strikes me in the answer, at least we have received in writing, is that it often goes seamlessly alongside the question that has been asked. So I actually wanted to know about the boas if there could be a nationwide vision of the municipal search, just how we should see that there are more and more local enforcers, versus the broad task of the police. The Minister says: yes, we are going to look at the cooperation between police and boas. But I really want a vision on how we see the future of municipal enforcement. My question to the Minister is: is he prepared to work on that vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u174	I had understood that it was just about the green boas, but if I failed Mrs Buitenweg with that, then I am sorry. I thought the questions were about this, but from the policy response on the details of the cooperation between the boa and the police, I said at least that a letter will be sent to your Chamber this year. So I'm trying to find out what I may not have answered, because with regard to those green boas, a plan of action has just been sent by the Minister of LNV and me to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u175	To clarify, the green boas were indeed one component. But what this is all about is what the Minister is going to do. He says: I am going to explain how cooperation between the boas and the police is going to take shape. I am not just asking for information exchange, for example. I also ask: how are we supposed to see, and what do we think, that there are more and more local enforcers, that there is a kind of municipal police in danger? And what does that mean for the work of the national police? So I'm much more in need of thinking about such a vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u176	Again, apologies. I did mean to discuss the points made by Mrs Buitenweg in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u177	So it's coming back. I'm watching... Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u178	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u179	I shall go first to Mr Van Dam. Is that okay with you? Yes. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u180	Sometimes you just need a minute to get something working on you. I would like to come back to the issue of the security of John van den Heuvel, which Mr Attje Kuik has brought up. I actually hear the Minister say that he understands from the operation of police work, security, that this advice was given to Mr Van den Heuvel, or this rule. In fact, on second thought, I am quite unsatisfied with it, because this is indeed bowing to what we all do not want. Well, I don't think the Minister's about it. The triangle in Amsterdam is over. And yet I would like to ask the Minister the following, because without having done a poll here, I think there is widespread displeasure that a journalist cannot do his job. Would the Minister like to pass that displeasure on to that triangle in Amsterdam, for which he is ultimately responsible for at least two thirds of it, and say: boys, this can't really be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u181	I will certainly pass on that displeasure, but I would like to continue to say: I also understand the triangle, also because the triangle is indeed open. That should not be snowed down here for looking at a solution such that it is not a beam connection but simply presence on a broadcast. That's what I'd like to say. Otherwise, an image of a reluctant triangle may arise. We really need to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u182	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I think it should be very clear that the norm is that the journalist can sit wherever he wants, that a mayor is present at the Saint Nicholas entrance and that sort of thing. I missed that in your answer, and I heard it sound a little more like what you're saying. I can see that moving. You are a lawyer and so you know that facts and standards are always in a certain proportion to each other, but here the norm should be decisive and not what is actually possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u183	The norm is decisive. The norm is for people who really look at it, in this case the Amsterdam triangle, the safety. I just want to lance for the Amsterdam triangle, which has really said that we need to look at other equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u184	Then I will go to Mr Van Nispen for a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u185	Yes, a point of order, Mr President. We have talked about the criminal justice chain, but there is also an amendment that we are trying to invest EUR 53 million extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u186	What number was that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u187	In my view, that is the amendment to item No. 14. I would find it difficult if the Minister did not return to this until the second term, because I know that questions have been raised about the sustainability of cover. I also think that we should take a serious look at this, but then we should also be able to discuss it, not just in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u188	I'll see if he can get into that. If you need time for that, we'll do it after lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u189	Yeah, I just... I didn't have to go there right now... But I'm fine with it, because I do have a thought about that. Can we do that after lunch?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u190	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u191	Then I'll be done too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u192	That's what you thought! We're gonna see. Thank you. We'll get back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-22-tweedekamer-7.u193	For the moment, I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour. Then we start with the arrangement of work and then the directors continue with their reply.
