ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the presentation of the budget for 2019. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It is an honour and a pleasure to offer you the first budget of this cabinet - a budget full of plans for the future. But first, I'm taking you back to the past, to be precise, to October 1911. Europe was then under the spell of the poles of the earth. Explorer Roald Amundsen wanted to go to a place where no one had ever been before: the South Pole. A journey with an equally heroic and ambitious goal. A journey also full of dangers and uncertainties. A journey for which only the ultimate preparation was good enough. Amundsen chose a ski champion on his team who could make skis himself. He spent months with the Eskimos to learn about traveling, resting and dressing in the Arctic. He took large amounts of food and distributed it across several places along the route. He chose huskys to pull the sleds and not ponies, because he knew: ponies don't eat meat, but dogs do and if they have to, dogs also eat dogs. He divided his fuel into soldered cans so that he could cook anywhere he stopped. And he took no less than four thermometers, because if one of them broke, he had two more in reserve. Robert Scott started the race to the South Pole at the same time. Scott was a famous naval officer and in the eyes of many the favorite, but his preparation was different from that of Amundsen. He was forced to walk, because skiing he and his team members could not. He had no idea how the Eskimos lived. He chose ponies as migratory animals so he had to bring a lot of extra food. He divided his food supply over two large depots that he poorly marked. He kept his fuel in cans with cork caps from which the fuel appeared to escape. And he only took one thermometer that he was screaming and screaming into the polar floor when it gave out. Amundsen reached the South Pole 34 days earlier than Scott. He returned home healthy and well with his team, and he became world famous. Scott not only lost the battle, but also his life on the way back. Mr. Chairman. I return to the Netherlands of 2018. Back to the country where economics go well in many ways, where the budget for the fourth time in a row notes a plus. Four years in a row, four years in a row, a budget surplus, which has not occurred in 60 years. It is also the Netherlands where the economy is growing steadily again and unemployment falls to the lowest level in fifteen years. Until recently such a low level of unemployment seemed almost impossible, because four years ago more than 700,000 people were unwittingly at home; more people than Rotterdam have population. Families where a father or a mother didn't leave for work in the morning, but picked up the pen for a new application letter. Only at home without colleagues and without rights, because being unemployed is more than just less income. Whoever loses his job often loses part of his life's happiness. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the economic tide has turned for the better. Is that due to The Hague's policy? Of course, sensible policies, timely reform and political stability contribute to economic success, but also, frankly, political modesty fits. Today's economic success is mainly the result of strong economic foundations, of international economic growth, of entrepreneurship in all these Dutch companies and of the efforts of millions of Dutch people who are working hard every day. Mr. Chairman. Against this background, I present today a budget that makes the Netherlands stronger, safer and more prosperous, which prepares us for the future, which prepares us for the expected and, if it is right, also for the unexpected. By investing in education, making the profession of teacher more attractive. By investing in infrastructure, with which we build additional roads and railways. By investing in security, with which we train 1,100 additional police officers. By investing in defense, by modernising the battlepower of the armed forces. And by investing in employment and in an attractive locational environment, for SMEs and large companies, with which we also have sufficient jobs in our country in the long term. By reducing corporation tax, abolishing dividend tax, reducing income tax and investing in scientific research. A budget that also creates space to end gas extraction as soon as possible, for the safety of the Groningers. And a budget with which the cabinet ensures that all groups of Dutch feel the economic growth in their pockets. Because, President, 96% of Dutch people are improving in 2019. And that is on the condition that we get public finances in order, because next year the cabinet expects a surplus of 1%. Thus, in addition to all investments, the cabinet can also repay part of the debt, which thus falls below 50%. Ten years ago, before the crisis broke out, the debt was just over 43%. So we are not there yet, but we are taking significant steps in the right direction. In the direction where the government, when the need is restored, can cope with new setbacks, as if the government also had three or four thermometers with it, hopefully in the long run. Mr. Chairman. We are now in the throes of economic crisis, and your Chamber knows as well as I do that our economy, which is precisely the Dutch economy that is meddling in the waves of the world economy, is sensitive to geopolitical instability and, as one of the first to experience the effects of trade conflicts. In addition, close to home the Brexit threatens our exports, our jobs and our wallet. In short, our prosperity today is no guarantee of tomorrow's prosperity. The mission for the cabinet is therefore to both invest in society and to ensure stronger purchasing power among the citizen and exercise in control, as Amundsen built margins everywhere. For the debt may fall, let us free ourselves from the thought that we could allow the financial reins to be celebrated. The debt of the government is still more than 400 billion euros and for that we pay almost €1 per Dutch person per day in interest alone. Therefore, in order to be able to look to the future with confidence, we need to strengthen our foundations and create reserves right now. That 100-year-old lesson from Amundsen takes the cabinet to heart. For example, the cabinet is working on a stronger Netherlands, of all of us, for all of us, for now and in the future. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. Because of the great success last year there is a new edition of the Blue Book. I brought it with me, too. It is the booklet that sums up the story of the Netherlands in figures. The booklet is made in inner pocket format again, so you can take it anywhere. Mr President, I would like to offer you the Million Note 2019 and the Blue Book to this effect. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-18-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for offering the budget for 2019.
