ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u1	Welcome to the Secretary of State. I call Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. The European Commission is considering asking for a substantial financial contribution from the European Central Bank to close the gaps in the European budget as a result of the Brexit. Under "Options for the future financial framework," the European Commission makes the following clear: "Because monetary income of the European Central Bank by issuing the euro is directly related to monetary union, this income can be considered as a possible new own resource of the European Union." Mr. Chairman. Now I take a sip of water, demonstrative, but also real. The Commission is trying to support this idea by stating that this is a logic that was applied in 2012 as well in relation to the Greek file. Take emergency compromises in relation to programme country Greece as a model for the future. You've got to have the guts. Mr. Chairman. My group believes that the letter from Minister Blok and also the response from Minister Hoekstra at last week's AO Eurogroup/Ecofin Council show weakness and disinterest. The wording chosen leaves room for the European Commission to come forward with proposals. It is not stated clearly and specifically that the inclusion of monetary income in the tax issues, in this case the Multiannual Financial Framework, is absolutely undesirable. And then I'm gonna be careful about expressing myself. No red line is drawn. To be honest, that surprises me very much. It seems that we have already come to the point where the skimming of central bank profits for public expenditure has become normal. Minister Hoekstra said he would wait for a proposal from the Commission next week on 2 May and emphasized the independence of the ECB. A possible proposal from the European Commission will be considered in the light of this independence. Mr. Chairman. The red line still has to be drawn. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is making many proposals to increase own resources in the new multiannual budget, in addition to the contribution of Member States;]] [[noting that the European Commission is also considering a billion-dollar contribution from the European Central Bank from seigniorage revenues;]] [[calls on the Government to state clearly to the European Commission that a claim on the ECB's seigniorage income exceeds a red line,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Rooijen, Leijten and Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1510]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. As clear and clear as my colleague Mr Van Rooijen, of course, I would never be able to say it, but when it comes to the European funds that we, as Member States, invest together in Europe's wallet, it is worth a debate in itself. Now that the Commission is preparing a new proposal on how to fill that wallet, the European Central Bank is suddenly in sight. If we want one percent more or less interest, it is always said: they are rightly politically independent. If we criticize the buying-in policy, the 'quantitative enlargement' as it is called, they say: fortunately the ECB is independent. But now it is fine to say that a grip can be taken from the proceeds from interest or investments; these are the seigniorage proceeds. That's why I co-signed the motion. I also think, Mr President, that we should vote on it today, because our minister will be in Brussels tomorrow, and then he will have a good job with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. The Secretary of State will then take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by offering the Chamber something that is pleasant in this discussion. There is a beautiful Dutch word for seigniorage and that is the word "coupon." That is certainly easier, even for the report. You can write "signiorage" in three ways, I believe. I think the word "coin wage" is clear. This is from a time when there were gentlemen who were allowed to mint coins and were paid for them. There's no more time. It is, of course, true that all the Members participating in monetary union are still minting coins. This is done through the European Central Bank. It does make a profit on that. They also belong to the central banks that participate in the European system of banks. DNB also makes profit payments to the state budget. This is how it ends up with the national government. That's kind of the point. That's the way it is. It might help clarify. Then about the motion itself, very briefly. We have not yet seen a proposal from the Commission. So we're not really sure what she wants to do either. It should be clear, I say to Mr Van Rooijen, that we do not welcome this type of proposal. Not in general when it comes to financing MFF proposals which, as far as we are concerned, are not reasonable, but also when it comes to new own resources. You really should be careful with that. This is a typical one where we are not very much on our side as such. At the same time, we do not yet know the proposal. What Mr Hoekstra is trying to explain in the debate and now in this VAO is that we can debate this, but we do not yet know what the Commission really wants. Is this a balloon or is it something she's seriously gonna come up with? That is why I would suggest that we wait and hold the motion until we have the proposal. We can find things for that, but we just don't know exactly what to expect. My proposal would be to keep it until there is a proposal and then look at the merits of that proposal. Well, I already know some people don't get excited about that. It could just be, I say again, that neither are we.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mrs Leijten, I do not want to be faint, but the author is still sitting in his chair. The proposal is to hold the motion. I would like to ask Mr Van Rooijen what he thinks of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u7	I have noticed that those Members who co-signed, at least Mrs Leijten, would like a vote, and who am I to say that we should not do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u8	That's an order proposal. The House must then decide whether to take a vote on it in the near future. We can now ask the other members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u9	I would like to ask another substantive question, which may change the opinion. We can wait until 2 May when the whole package of the European wallet. That's seven years from now. That's about a lot of parts. There is probably going to be a lot more demand from the Member States. I can see that the Dutch Government and the Dutch Chamber want to change substantial parts. What matters to me now is that we indicate in advance: we have a red line here as far as we are concerned. That's what we mentioned earlier about our own income, about such a treasury and a ministry of finance. Of these, the Dutch Government and the Dutch Chamber indicated: that is a red line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u10	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u11	This came again in the sense of: well, you know what; then we do not collect taxes on citizens, but taxes at the ECB. I think it makes sense to say that we have drawn this red line a long time ago, so that motion can be put to the vote. That supports our plea in Europe, and if the proposal is there, we will see for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u12	When I look at the text of the motion, I find it difficult. For example, it says: "calls on the government to state clearly to the Commission that a claim on the ECB's seigniorage income exceeds a red line'. But we do not know at all whether the Commission is coming up with this, what it looks like. What exactly do they want? Do they want that through the national budget or a direct contribution from the ECB to the Commission, which seems to me to be a very curious figure? It seems to me that it is very difficult to respond to this in substance, as I do not know what the proposal is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u13	But we have read what the Commission's February document says. That's clip-and-ready and clear. It's about 56 billion, too. We want to draw a red line, draw a line. Suppose it goes by the way we fear that the European Central Bank will not hand over that income to shareholders, including De Nederlandsche Bank, which will bring it to the Ministry of Finance via dividend. If that route is closed because it goes directly to the Commission as a new own resource, then we are already drawing a red line. If that proposal is informal on Wednesday or tomorrow, the cabinet already knows that we do not want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u14	Your point of view is clear. I think the Secretary of State's position is also clear. He advises to hold the motion because the content is not yet sufficiently known. But the authors of the motion would now like to put this motion to the vote. Then I would like to know from the other parties present how they stand in it, because it is up to the Chamber to judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u15	I had come here for the arrangement of work. That is where Mr Van Rooijen applied for this VAO. That is where we explicitly stated: no votes today. That's what I assumed. Of course it is up to the author of the motion to come back to that, but I think it is a very strange zigzag story now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u16	You are not in favour of putting this motion to the vote this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u17	If the author so wishes, he must have the right to put her to the vote in a moment, but I think it is a very strange form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u18	No, but what I am telling you is that the author states that he wishes to put this motion to the vote now. The Room has to find something about that. So, you're not for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr President, I would like to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u20	No, wait a minute. First, I want to hear from the other parties how they stand in there. I want to know whether a majority is against voting on this motion or not. Mrs. Plasschaert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u21	I just wanted to explain how this went, because I understand that Mr Van Rooijen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u22	No, no, no. We're not having that discussion right now. The V.A.O. is on. Mr Sneller has a point that the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u23	But, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u24	No, no, no. I'm not going to argue with you right now. I want to hear from the other parties whether they want to vote on this motion this afternoon. Mrs. Plasschaert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u25	My colleague, Mr D66, has just indicated that he will not stop the votes. That goes for me, too. However, I do think that it is a very strange figure how this went down. In view of the clock, and many colleagues who would very much like to get out of town on time because otherwise they are locked here, I would like to propose to you that we take this opportunity. to vote, including on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u26	I agree with that. At least I see one line with Mr Van Rooijen, and that is a red mop line. I really don't... it wouldn't be voted on at first. But if people want to vote, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u27	Clear. You have no objection to voting on this motion this afternoon. Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr President, I would like to explain...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mrs. Leijten, just a moment. Wait a minute. I want the others first...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u30	But you're allowing this. This hadn't happened...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u31	No, no, no. I'm just gonna let the other spokesmen talk. Mrs Leijten, I will allow Mr Van Dijck to speak and you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u32	I understand that there will be a vote anyway. I'm sure there's only one motion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u33	Clear. Finally, Mrs Leijten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u34	If you had given me the opportunity to explain what happened, my colleagues would not have had to accuse Mr Van Rooijen of mop-up policy. In the run-up to this VAO, we looked at what motions we had. The motions were similar. Van Rooijen had said: I do not need to vote, and we did put the motions together. I said, I'll stick to it. That's why I indicated it here. That is not Mr Van Rooijen's mop policy; that is my express wish. I actually think that those statements should be taken back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you. Clear. The motion will be tabled and it will be put to the vote shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-10.u36	I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber. I suspend for a few moments, and then we continue with the VAO Group size in primary education.
