ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on accountability in 2017. I would like to welcome everyone, in particular the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I would like to welcome Mrs Giskes from the College of the General Court and, of course, the people in the gallery and those who follow this debate in a different way. You're not getting the floor yet, Mr. Van Dijck. This year, too, there is a great deal of interest in the accountability and accountability debates. Last week, on the initiative of Mr Sneller, the V100 took place for the second time, with a meeting of 100 people from all over society. That was an interesting and special day. Questions have been asked about the departments' annual reports. The committees forwarded these questions to the cabinet so that they could be answered. Once those answers are in, we will inform the participants of the V100 about this. Mr. Tony van Dijck, you may never speak to the cabinet when the meeting is open. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Wednesday meatloaf day. Today's the day. The day that the cabinet is accountable to the Dutch and to the taxpayers. In the pieces I read: The Netherlands is doing well. But the question I'm asking right away is who's actually doing okay? The Minister's treasury is doing well. That's what we've been able to see. But the wallet of the Dutchman is not doing very well. This has been robbed by Mr Rutte in recent years. You'd think the people in the country would feel it in their wallet now that things are getting better. Nothing could be further from the truth. In 2017, a small increase in purchasing power was promised, a crumb though, but still. What is the answer to this question? Purchasing power fell again last year for almost all Dutch. Why wasn't that fixed by the Minister of Finance? Someone with a moderate income would have improved 0.4%, but turned out to have fallen 0.3% afterwards. It's still crumbs, it's still tens, but it's the principle. At the time of the 2017 budget, the CPB still assumed an inflation rate of 0,5%. Turns out that was 1.3%. But the Minister knew that in March of last year. Then inflation was predicted to be 1.6%. The CEP therefore had the title: Inflation is rising. Why didn't the cabinet intervene then and why wasn't purchasing power repaired in the meantime? The same applies to wages. The cabinet expects wages to increase by 2.5% this year and even by 3.5% next year. But if this doesn't happen, the purchasing power vows will collapse like a plum pudding. If inflation is higher because of the rise in oil prices, the rise in wages will evaporate in front of us. So what are those promises worth? The government leaves the entire purchasing power development to external factors: wage growth and inflation, but does nothing to improve people's purchasing power. The cabinet sits on its hands, while the money pounces against the plinths at the Ministry of Finance. Last year, no less than 11 billion more in taxes were collected than budgeted. The surplus amounts to 8 billion, while the deficit is estimated at 3.3 billion. And yet the cabinet has decided to keep all these windfalls of nearly 12 billion all to itself. Anything for Hoekstra. Why? The Prime Minister promised that we would all feel better in our wallet. Was this another empty promise from Mr. Rutte? The list's getting really long now. The Dutch have been squeezed for decades. They're getting a smaller and smaller piece of prosperity. That's gotta stop. Since the start of the crisis, charges have increased by €2,800 per person employed, VNO-NCW charged us. But it gets worse. Looking back, we see that real disposable income has not increased since 2002, according to DNB, while the economy grew with double figures. The cake is not being distributed fairly, Minister. In other words, we can work our asses off until we fall down, but it doesn't really help us. All prosperity gains are put in their pockets by government and business. The citizens have checked and are occasionally made happy with a dead sparrow as a sweetener. Speaking of dead sparrows, the cabinet promises 5 billion in relief for next year. Wages should rise by more than 3% and inflation should not rise too high. At the same time, this cabinet increases VAT on groceries and energy taxes. The mortgage interest rate deduction and many tax rebates are reduced. In fact, we are made happy with a dead sparrow. The Minister admits this, too. The reduction in charges is actually less burden increase. In the coming years, the burden on citizens and SMEs will be increased by 3.4 billion. That's the honest story. That is what the Minister writes in response to our questions, but he is afraid to tell the Dutch people here in the Chamber. As if it weren't bad enough, the cabinet is also magical with the cost of care. We are allowed to pay for the freezing of our own risk, but the supposed saving of 2 billion on healthcare costs does not go to the public. It pockets the cabinet itself. That's a trick Hans Klok can suck on. How do I cheat the citizen for the advanced, with as guest lecturer Mark Rutte? The PVV therefore calls for real relief. More money in the wallet means more purchasing power, more jobs and more economic growth. Now it's the citizens' turn. Why is the surplus held up by this minister and not returned to the citizens? After all, it's their money. It's too much tax money and it has to go back. Mr. Chairman. Then the elderly. It's totally poignant what's going on there. For years this group was tackled by Rutte. Older people's care was stripped and purchasing power weakened. In 2017, they were promised a small purchasing power plus. That turns out to be another minus. Pensions are no longer indexed and are sometimes even reduced. New discounts for up to 8 million pensions are lurking. Pensioners suffer from artificially low interest rates by the ECB, while this Minister of Finance says protsely here during the presentation of the accounts that interest charges are now 3.2 billion lower than in 2012. The elderly have been hurt, but Wopke benefits. That's downright antisocial. The PVV would therefore once again argue in favour of using the strong windfall of the Minister of Finance to compensate pensioners for their loss of purchasing power. With an interest rate counter of 1 billion, we can increase the Anw by 3% as long as the interest rate is so low and as long as pensions cannot be indexed. That is so fair and no more than reasonable. I don't understand why I can't get any more support in this Chamber. Then the IRS. I can't get around it: it's a mess. But it gets worse every year. The mess is so big that the tax collection is at risk. The General Court states in its accountability survey: "The staff shortages, combined with the remaining work packages reduction, give rise to concerns about increasing risks for the continuity of the primary processes of the Tax Administration." In other words, tax collection is in danger. That is very bad and at the same time it undermines tax morals in the Netherlands. It is still high so far, but it is falling off at the moment when the Tax Administration is no longer functioning. Mr. Chairman. A small overview of the problems. First there was Jan Kees the Hunter. We remember him. We ran into errors in the payout of the surcharges. The DigiD system didn't work and in its day 730,000 returns were lost. It was already clear at the time that ICT was a major problem. Then we got Frans Weekers. You know, that Secretary of State that allowed Bulgarians in Bulgaria to use the Tax Office as an ATM. After his resignation, we got Eric Wiebes. Under his responsibility, the problems became even greater. The departure scheme at the Tax Office was so generous that many officials used it. Too much. They received a gold handshake of €70,000. While the whole of the Netherlands had to tighten the belt, they got a big bonus. But it gets worse. The departure scheme was intended to relieve some of the cost-effective and excess staff. Because of a mistake, the highly educated, indispensable specialists used it. Even civil servants picked up a big bag of money just before they retired. And to complete the party, FIOD officials and customs also made use of this golden polonaise. They received one tonne under the exit scheme. However, that was not the intention at all. Then came Secretary of State Number 4, Menno Snel. During his brief reign, an ICT project failed at the gift and inheritance tax, so many people are now waiting for their inheritance. Also, a simple adjustment of the load on diesel cars was not feasible in the systems. So this Secretary of State is not in control either. I hold my heart as to whether the tax changes before 2019 can be implemented at all, because apparently the Tax Administration is tied together with strings. The solution of the Secretary of State, like that of his predecessors, is: more money. 100 million more and the problems will be solved. I ask the Minister what this misery has cost. Please give us an overview, because this is getting completely out of hand. For the second year in a row, the General Court found eight shortcomings in the Tax Administration, in terms of steering, information provision, recruitment of new staff, ICTlegacy and information security. In short, it is still far from in order. In 2016 Secretary of State Wiebes decided to put the Tax Administration under curatel, but today the PVV wants to put the State Secretary himself under curatel, with mandatory periodic reports to the Chamber. In his letter, the Secretary of State proposes to inform us once a year, but that is far too little for us. We must be on top of it and we therefore want to turn the Tax Administration into a major project. We should have done that a long time ago. In fact, former Secretary of State Wiebes himself admits that we should have made a big project of it in 2016; he regrets that this has not happened. The Tax Administration fulfils all the conditions and the problems with the Tax Administration must be resolved once and for all. It's one minute to twelve, as far as we're concerned. I am counting on broad support in the Chamber for the proposal to make the Tax Administration and the Investment Agenda a major project.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijck. Mr Sneller has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	I would like to return to the beginning of Mr Van Dijck's speech. Then he showed very nicely why national income, GDP, doesn't say everything. This year we received for the first time the Monitor Brede Prosperity, in which more questions are addressed. During the debate on that report, prepared by the temporary committee Breed Wealth Concept, the PVV was very critical of the concept of "wide prosperity." Now I hear that in hidden terms he is actually very positive about looking more broadly at prosperity. Is Mr Van Dijck now in favour of such a monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	Every monitor, every research that adds something to our insights and our decision-making has always been included, but we were very critical of that monitor back then. In that monitor it is about how happy people are with their environment, with the CO emissions and so on. An environmental approach has been adopted. But we are very concerned that the citizens' wallet has been eroded for years. There is no mention in the monitor that people have to surrender to purchasing power every year. Nor do I read in the monitor that one in five families suffers from problematic debts. There are 30,000 people in debt restructuring, but I don't read that on the monitor. All this has to do with the fact that the cake is not distributed fairly. This was also seen by Mr Sneller at the hearing on the aiq.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am pleased that Mr Van Dijck has at least studied the monitor and is also critical of it in substance. After all, the CBS invites us to give feedback, so that we can do better next year. I believe that there are also indicators in the monitor, such as crime victimisation, which Mr Van Dijck will address more. Can I ask Mr Van Dijck to come back to that in substance and, together with the rest of the Chamber, to ensure that we can improve the monitor so that it can play a better role next year, as Mr Van Dijck also wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	Of course. If I can contribute things that aren't exposed in the monitor right now, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde, who speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is doing well, very well. The honour for this does not go to a Cabinet Rutte I, II or III. The honor doesn't go to 150 MPs either. The honour does not even go to officials who are behind the scenes preparing the sensible decisions in this country. All praise belongs to the vast majority of Dutch people who, in the difficult years that lie behind us, understood that we all had to make a pass on the spot. People who themselves had lost money to DSB or Icesave. People who were out of jobs for less or less years because their company didn't recover from the crisis. People who had a mortgage of 130% got divorced. People who nevertheless understood that an unusual coalition had to make unusually difficult decisions, supported by other parties, over and over again in a different composition. In this way, the Rutte II cabinet was able to set up the State's housekeeping book while at the same time taking structural measures that put our country ahead for a long time. Think of the reform of the housing market, social rent, long-term care and education. Decentralisation also ensures that people get real attention tailored to their needs. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is doing well, very well. Economic growth last year was over 3%. We haven't seen that since the 1990s. There has been more investment, more execution and more consumption than the year before. Our economy has been growing harder for three years in a row than in the countries around us. The number of unemployed fell by more than 100 000, there are more than 10 million jobs and more than 8.5 million people are at work. That is so much, that we need to think so slowly about unorthodox measures to get our labour potential to work for people who are now at home. Anyone who can work must get to work quickly. And since these people are all at work, Minister Hoekstra's housekeeping booklet is right again. The government debt is again below 60%, there is a budget surplus. The compliments are therefore due to all people in the Netherlands and, ahead, also to the Rutte I, II and III Cabinets. At the same time, as an economist, you are surprised that our view of our economy can change so dramatically in a year and a half. It also gives thought to the tools we use to adjust the economy. The European Central Bank has pursued a very broad monetary policy and has thereby contributed to growth. But how do we explain that the Central Bank continues to buy up debt for EUR 30 billion every month in the high economy at the moment? The ECB has completely shattered its gunpowder. Economic developments are simply moving too fast for the instruments we use. This also applies to generous fiscal policies to drive the economy forward. At the VVD we weren't admirers of Keynes anyway. Because chasing the economy in bad times sounds fun, but how long do you keep doing that when a crisis lasts for example eight years? What politician wants to cut back on that in good times, like now? You also have to ask yourself whether you can drive or slow down at all with a budget that is largely bound up with all kinds of obligations. The lessons the VVD draws from the past ten years are clear. In bad times, the government just has to cut back. Use a crisis to get out better. You then have support to look critically at your spending and strengthen the economic structure. Make sure the financial markets keep faith in you so you have overnight the money to save a bank. Show me you're learning from mistakes. Address problems in the financial sector internationally, so that the house of cards cannot collapse again. Don't give in to economists who claim you can cheer yourself out of the crisis by spending a lot of money. Countries that have cut deep, for example Ireland, have recovered miraculously quickly. Other countries, Italy and France in particular, continue to have difficulties. Those who don't have that much with all these economic connections or dry figures, fortunately have an alternative: the Monitor Brede Welvaart of the CBS, an annual thermometer between the buttocks of the Netherlands from which you can see that most Dutch people are simply happy and satisfied. The material prosperity is great. People trust each other in the Netherlands and they trust the government. The safety is fine and even with fine dust we score a green cake point. Mr. Chairman. With all that good news I want to crack some critical notes. It is very nice that the housekeeping book is right again, it is nice that the Court of Auditors has recounted the cash and sees that we have everything in order for more than 99.5%, but actually we expect nothing else in the Netherlands. The next step is much more interesting. How do I, as a taxpayer, know that these pennies are being used smartly, that all this expensive policy we are making here is also a result and that there are no much better solutions for less money? The Court of Auditors has also identified a number of points of concern this year. Some of them play throughout the government and, moreover, for a long time. As far as we are concerned, the most painful have to do with ICT. An alarming situation at the Dutch Caribbean Office, a mess in the judiciary, persistent problems at the Tax Office and security problems at a number of ministries, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at a time when espionage by a number of powers is the order of the day. As far as the VVD is concerned, these problems arise. It is the inability to learn lessons from the recent past. In 2014, we had a parliamentary inquiry. That was the Elias Committee's investigation. This committee has made a number of wise recommendations, especially when it comes to managing complex projects. ICT is the backbone of the government, so we need a coordinating minister who oversees all these projects and provides a good pool of ICT people. My colleague Jan Middendorp said the latter very nicely: "Actually, you have to compare it with the Minister of Finance. The role he has for finance should have the Minister of State for ICT. Then ICT within each individual ministry is chiefsache, just because of security, so we expect leadership from the top of those departments and therefore from all individual ministers in their own chapter." How can it be that so little of all the things that we discussed here a few years ago in connection with the Elias Commission, with which the cabinet was working at the time, has come about? Why does ICT remain a child that has been held back? Why do some state services hire half of their ICTs externally? Why are there so few ICT users employed? Where is the competitive working conditions package? We're hiring people now for three or four times a civil servant's salary. I like to hear it when I fail someone, but 2017 turns out to be a lost year at this point. The Court of Auditors identifies the same problems as last year, even in the same terms. The VVD has become a bit cautious to ask for more research. Next thing you know, there's another report and we're debating for another year. But I do wonder how we want to proceed. Can the Prime Minister indicate in the first term where the bottlenecks are? Take the ICT labour market. Are those problems in the ARAR or the WNT? Is it just a lease car? I'd be surprised if there wasn't a clear picture of that. What is the status of ICT knowledge at the top of the departments? Is the CIO, the chief information officer, competent in this matter, or is it yet another activity of a busy person, deputy sg who should also do personnel and procurement policy? I'd like to be brief about the security of information. The motion tabled by Aukje de Vries in the debate on accountability last year has been followed by almost zero. I actually expect a commitment from the Prime Minister that the problems will be resolved this year under the direction of the Minister of the Interior and that we will not see them again next year in the report of the General Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	That raises the question of what exactly the VVD is going to ask. They will not be allowed to return to the General Court's reports next year. If that is the case, what conclusions does the VVD draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	Let's start with a nice, manageable goal. To be honest, I wouldn't even wait until next year. As far as I'm concerned, we should have solved this before Princess' Day. Information security can't wait. You may call any individual minister who makes a pot of that to account here and then we will have a critical debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	I've done that in the past few years. Since I've been in the Chamber that's been going on for a lot of years now, we've been talking a lot about ICT, government and ICT and information security. I think it's a little weeping with the hat on. If the government gets one more year now, what should be done, according to the largest party in this country, if it is not in order next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mrs Leijten probably would like to hear that we will send the cabinet home. I don't think that's gonna happen so soon. But ministers are simply responsible for a mess they're making. We're just gonna call them on that, no matter what their party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Court of Auditors' conclusions on subsidies are no less painful. The ministries of VWS and OCW are crowning. Grants which do not target three of the four endpoints shall not be recovered. There is no policy on abuse and misuse. State aid is also not subject to review. Subsidies in other departments do not even have a measurable policy objective, let alone you can measure the results. Or there are 17 goals at the same time, as in development cooperation. These seventeen objectives are therefore in conflict with each other. Welcome to the world of spending pressure. I would like to hear from the cabinet whether subsidies can be recovered if they have not been spent effectively. Will this be easier, for example, if we explicitly place the performance to be delivered at our disposal? Or should we turn it into some kind of private performance contract? Politicians have ideals, ideas and ideas. We see them come in the form of grants, but of course also as legislative proposals, other regulations, notes and policy plans and of course also in the form of 3,000 motions that we ourselves submit each year. Rarely do these proposals contain measurable and checkable targets, a deadline or a problem owner. This leads to the launch of expensive projects without a clear picture of the outcome. There's a job here for ourselves as a room. My colleague Pieter Duisenberg has drawn a lot of attention to this in recent years. We must force ourselves to ask obvious questions each time: what problem do we solve, how do we measure the result, what does it cost, what do we get for it, when is it done, is this the most effective commitment, who is responsible, when are we going to evaluate it? And yes, you can't get an answer to all those questions. You can't control the government with a spreadsheet. You also want to be able to test new ideas and then discuss with each other openly whether they have worked; trial-and-error. But if we do not ask these questions, we also know for sure that we are not achieving verifiable targets, and we must strive to do so. All this applies in particular to our climate objectives set out in the Paris Convention. The VVD is not the only party with great ambitions in this area. We want to leave the earth well behind, we don't want to become dependent on dubious regimes and fossil fuels are just running out. That's probably the biggest challenge of this century. We are going for it, but then we have to do it right, in a way that also leaves us with economic growth and jobs. But it means a lot to people in the Netherlands. They must have the confidence that every penny for the transition is spent optimally. Then it's a shock to see the Court of Auditors' investigation. EUR 400 million to reduce exhaust gases, with no significant health benefits. Until 2016, IenW has put money to the cities for air quality, without a sharp objective, without proper evaluation, without any significant adjustment. So that's mostly wasted money. That while we know what does work: source policy, strict production requirements. Fortunately, the new package of the Dutch Air Quality Cooperation Programme offers an excellent opportunity to put cost-effectiveness first. There's no other way. The successive ministers of EZ have proved this. What seemed impossible a few years ago is now becoming a reality: the first wind farm at sea without subsidies. The Prime Minister is sometimes wrong. This was a very clear liberal point. If the government stimulates development and leaves it to the market, it just happens. The VVD hopes that we will make the same movement in making the built environment more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	I just want to check something out. I just heard Mr Van der Linde say that fossil fuels are running out and that's why we have to go to a transition. I just want to make sure I understood that correctly. I don't think they're gonna run out if we can't use them anymore. Can Mr Van der Linde confirm that there must be a lot of fossil fuels in the ground, because we simply cannot burn them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u17	I am not sure I understand Mr Van Raan's question. The point I want to make is that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u18	Perhaps Mr Van Raan can clarify the question first, but I do not consider that to be an interruption. Mr. Van Raan, you may explain the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u19	I just heard Mr Van der Linde say that a reason for the transition is that fossil fuels are running out, but it's not so much that they're running out as we can't use them anymore. Perhaps Mr Van der Linde can improve this in his text.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u20	I think I made a triple. Yeah, they're running out, and that's why we need to think about other things. You are quite right, of course, that we do not want to use them all because of CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u21	Of course, that's speculative, whether they run out or not. We don't know how many there are. We also do not know what exactly is the origin of what we call 'fossil fuels'. Maybe some of them come from the Earth's core, where the Earth's fire makes certain carbon compounds. It's all very speculative what the origins are and how many of them are left. The Stone Age didn't end either because there weren't enough stones and so on. I would therefore like to add that here from the FvD Group as an adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. We have enough to work on. 2017 was mainly a policy poor year. Seven months of forming also means seven months waiting for new policies. Only now do people with a job prospect have some extra money in the wallet. The increase in purchasing power in 2017 was small. I would like to give the Netherlands a substantial increase in wages. This is good for economic growth. It does something for the cramped labour market and it is especially high time for all those people who have had to wait for years. Only now can we make the pension system understandable and fair, so that older people do not have to worry unnecessarily about discounts and indexation, if the social partners want to get on with their homework. And it is only now that we can free entrepreneurs from the payment of wages in the second year of illness, we can relax the right of dismissal and we can actually reduce corporate tax. Let's get to work fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u25	That sounded like the end. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u26	If that was your question, yes. Is that also the end of your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u27	I heard Mr Van der Linde say a few sentences ago that purchasing power is thin and I heard Mr Van der Linde complimenting the Dutch people at the beginning. When I look at it this way, the previous cabinet headed by Mr Rutte, with a big bag, went to the people with the question: would you please donate something, because things are very bad with the Netherlands, and can we all fill that bag with some money, because we have it very bad? Now we live in a time of high economics. Purchasing power is rather dramatic; it is actually scandalous. There is an economic growth of 3.3% and people are improving 0.1%, 0.2% or 0.3%; some are declining. Now we can divide such a bag and what does Mr Van der Linde's party do? It turns its back on the population and gives 1.6 billion to Shell of Unilever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u28	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u29	Why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u30	This is about 2017. The VVD has called all of 2017, before and after the elections, that we are coming from difficult times and that it is now time that people get more money in the wallet. 2017 was a bit disappointing. The Minister will explain later that people have improved, but less than we all assumed. Surely you're particularly pleased that this cabinet has reduced the burden of 5 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u31	The question is who gets that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr. Azarkan, you will take the floor if I give it to you. I'm sorry. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u33	The question is who gets that money. You're going around it, Mr. Van der Linde; I'm going to say that through you, Mr. Chairman. It's always the same pattern. You compliment the Dutch people at the beginning, because they have kept their backs straight in difficult times and pulled the Netherlands out of the crisis. But if there's something to divide up, you turn back to big business, to Shell and to Unilever. You give away 1.6 billion without being able to show how that works for the Dutch people. You can turn around, but I'm just asking a very simple question. In good times, you could also improve purchasing power. You don't choose to do that. So you compliment the Dutch people very cheaply, but in fact you turn your back on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u34	This cabinet has plans: 1.5 billion extra for defence, 1.5 billion extra for education, 2 billion extra for care, 0.5 billion for police, 5 billion for relief, and we are also making a package to help business. That is where the money is made that we have to pay for that defence, that education and that care. In that broad package there is, indeed, something with dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr Azarkan for his third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u36	I thought I'd wait until you gave me the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u37	Yes, of course. Your third question. That's the spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u38	That's right. All these measures you just indicated mean that you can spend €10, €20, €30 per month more than you had before. That's where that leads, Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u39	This debate is to look back on 2017, at the end of those difficult times, at the year in which we called out: there needs to be more money in the wallet. That's what we're gonna do now. And then we look forward: 5 billion relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr Van der Linde started the conclusion on threatening discounts. He says that they are superfluous when a new pension system is introduced, but as long as there is no pension system, there needs to be a reduction. Last night we had a reverse role: I was in box K and you were in the room. You said the same thing at the time. Now I ask you the question: if this system does not come into effect, what we do not want to do or what we do not want to do, namely in 2022 or 2023, but the reductions will be in 2020 or 2021, will you still be prepared to support our proposal? Yesterday, you said, "We're not going to do that." You are saying that we are simply going to cut short if there is no such new system. I'd like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u41	The short answer is no, and I will explain to you why. We are opting for a system in which we offer people 97.5% security. In addition, we allow pension funds to keep large buffers. We are not going to distribute these buffers at the expense of future generations and not only at the expense of future generations, but also at the expense of the security that older people now have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u42	A short question, because Mr Van der Linde mentioned that purchasing power. I have lost the trail a little bit and I hope that the rulers will answer that question later. Are you also surprised by that table with the SZW-pieces about the realization of the purchasing power effects 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yes. There is a lot to say about averages, medians, target groups and so on, but let's just be honest: of course we had all hoped for more. That has everything to do with inflation. We know that, too. That's a good sign in itself. But yes, I would have liked to show you that it was a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u44	We share that. It is not even so much a question of political judgment. We now get the figures from SZW on the 2017 realisation based on CEP figures 2018. With the pieces we get a new table with just a few other purchasing power groups, but the big difference is that in the SZW table ten out of fourteen income groups are declining on it, mints, and in the answer to the questions there is no more one mince left and everyone is in the plus. These two tables are both based on the CEP. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u45	I've seen that, too. Maybe you shouldn't ask me that question. Maybe you should ask the Minister in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u46	I'm getting a little tired of that VVD that constantly calls: lower taxes, people need to feel it in the wallet. Now the facts about 2017 are there. People haven't felt anything. In fact, money's been taken out of their wallet again. In 2018, they would receive a small purchasing power plus an average of €5 per month. But yes, inflation only has to fall a little short or wage developments only have to fall a little short...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u47	And what's the question, Mr. Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u48	My question is that Mr Van der Linde himself hopes that people will get a little more in their pockets. In fact, he gives the people a little more in the wallet. But in the field of policy,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u49	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u50	...so those people get something more in their wallet, he doesn't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u52	And that's bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u53	I have just listed everything we are going to do in the coming period and said what is in the plans. This is only possible because we have the household booklet of the Netherlands in order. Then you can shout "they keep it all in their pockets," but the Netherlands is doing well. Finally, we can return the favor. Yeah, of course, we've had tough years. But you're gonna be happy with me for the plans that lie ahead, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u54	The Netherlands is doing well, but the wallet of the citizen is not doing well. And that's up to you. You are now saying that there is something ahead of that wallet, but this Minister himself admits that we are talking about an increase of 3.4 billion for the period up to 2020/2021. In other words, you do nothing for the people. The reduction in charges you promise is less burden increase. You have to tell me. That's the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u56	The only improvement in purchasing power in the books is due to a wage increase that is not in your hands, but which is in business or is due to low inflation. In other words:...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u57	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u58	... what are you doing politically so that people actually have more in their pockets? Actually, more in their wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u60	The VVD entered the elections in 2012 with one central promise: we are putting public finances in order. We have done so, with your support and with the support of a lot of parties. It just happened. We have now entered the election with the promise: now we're going to do something for your wallet. You are now looking back at 2017. There hasn't been a cabinet back then, ahead, for the last two months. You know very well that in those last two months you will not get that settled. We have four years to do this. And then you can take care of us. And then, in election time, you can go and yell to everyone that we did or didn't do it. I just suspect that if we can do it, we won't hear about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u61	The facts speak for themselves. The plans have been calculated and it is clear that this cabinet is not doing anything about better purchasing power. What you do amounts to less burden increase. But that doesn't mean reducing the burden. So you promise the voter "I would actually take €50 out of your wallet in the coming years, but you know what, I won't do that." And that's the extra money in the wallet. And then I should be glad that those €50 that were actually on the roll to be robbed from my wallet are not being taken out. That's what you're saying. You're saying we're not gonna take the 50 bucks we're supposed to take. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u62	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'm just gonna get the CPB bill. Apart from that, I'm gonna take a look back at the past year. 100,000 people, to be exact: 117.000 people have been given a job. That is not clear from these purchasing power cards, because according to these purchasing power cards, you never get a new job and you don't get a promotion. You don't see all that, let alone see you go through a divorce or go through other big events. You're not going to tell me that we're all getting worse with the cabinet policy that's now ahead of us with a $5 billion reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u64	Fourth question, Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u65	I'm going to tell you that we're not getting anywhere with it and that you're putting the ball all the way to business. They have to pay the wages... You'll give it to everyone. I'd like to give everyone a 10% pay rise. That's not the point. It's what this cabinet does. What does the VVD do? She always calls that working Netherlands deserves lower taxes, but you only increase the tax! That's what you do! And that is why you should not say to working Netherlands "thanks to us you now have a job," because you have done nothing at all. Last year there was no cabinet. That's when the whole business was a missionary. That was a good year. Maybe that's an idea for this year: sit on your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u66	I'm not in the mood for cheap wells and nots. Next time the PVV just lets her election program pass through the CPB, we can keep those numbers next to it. Then we'll talk about something. But there wasn't much to calculate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Van der Linde just spoke in an interruption about e.g. the Netherlands. His last words were: now we can lower the Vpb. Today all these analyses are ahead: from the CBS, about the broad prosperity, what the problems are in the Netherlands, inequality, climate, living. But the analysis is not that the companies make too little profit. I ask him how, on the basis of all these analyses, he comes to the conclusion that that is the most urgent thing to do. We're a country, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr Nijboer is right about that. Only, business is one of many things. And you know, there's a lot of greenery in that Monitor Brede Prosperity. The Netherlands is doing well. There's also some of those red pie tips in there. I think it's a beautiful thing. So we know what to pay our attention to. We're not just spending money on business, are we? We also spend money on other things that matter to us, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u69	Of course, we're a beautiful country. We'll soon agree on that. Nor am I of the pessimistic wing of politics. But those red areas do not say that the profits of business are too low. We have a huge problem with the dividend tax. You called yourself the Vpb. That's where you closed your input. It is about social cohesion. Think of people who don't come anymore. We're in the back with the climate. Think about education, too. Those are the problems. Then how do you come to use more money to business as a big profit now, and as a bouncer in your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u70	I think it is too easy for us to forget that these companies in the Netherlands also provide jobs. That's one. And they're not just creating direct jobs. Try explaining it to the taxi driver who drives up and down to Shell five times a day. Try explaining it to the lady who spreads sandwiches and delivers them for an international meeting at Akzo, Unilever or whatever. In companies, the money is earned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u71	Yet always the schwalbe of the VVD, as if opposition parties are not interested in companies that create jobs. We know that, of course. The problem is, Mr. Van der Linde, over the last 30 years, corporate profits have tripled. People's purchasing power has barely increased. Get into that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u72	Yeah, and that's what we got $5 billion for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. What do we want to achieve? What are we gonna do about that? And do we achieve what we wanted to achieve? These are the simple questions that should be at the heart of the accounting debate at the end of a budget cycle. That should be because citizens want to know whether taxpayers' money is being used carefully, economically and wisely by us as politicians. People want to know why we are pursuing policies and what that is going to yield, rationally substantiated, not on the basis of a feeling, not on the basis of gambling and not on the basis of the prime minister's deepest fibres, just to quote him. But this is precisely why the debate on dividend taxation is getting so high, I ask the Prime Minister. People want to know what EUR 1.4 billion of investment and employment will get them, or whether this money can be better spent. That is precisely why this Accountability debate is so important. Not because we, as financial spokesmen, have a technocratic debate on figures, but because this debate is ultimately about democratic accountability. Not technocracy, but democracy, as the Court of Auditors rightly points out. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We now have a lot of puzzle pieces to improve accountability, but there is still no insight into the laying of the whole puzzle. That's what my input is about today. I shall begin with the question of accountability in a limited sense, namely the linking of budgets with accountability and the Annual Financial Report. I note that the questions of the V100 citizens are putting the finger on the painful spot, whether they are road safety, the connection to the labour market, education, the energy transition, the workload in care or poverty in children. All these questions are about targets that are sometimes but usually not explicitly defined and about the extent to which money or policy has contributed or not contributed to achieving those goals. The reason why citizens are asking all these questions is that it is not easy, or not at all, to get out of the documents. That's the point. Accountability is not sufficiently related to the budget. The questions we want to achieve, what we have done before and what we have achieved are difficult to answer in this way. Does the Minister and the Prime Minister agree with me and do they share this analysis, which is also made forcefully by the Court of Auditors? And that with a little less than twenty years after we started the VBTB operation from policy preparation to policy accountability, an operation that I think was started by Minister Zalm in the second purple cabinet, in the last century. The Prime Minister had to become Secretary of State at the time. With the analogy of Arno Visser of the Court of Auditors, it takes a long time before we can move away the curtains of Madame Bovary's carriage. And then I wonder: do we want to know what's going on behind the curtains? Why is this such a tough and difficult process? Or is it also inherent in politics? Is making policy much more exciting than being accountable? Is it easier to promise than to answer or to keep promises? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Compatibility Act is also one of those puzzle pieces, a new puzzle piece that should improve the accountability of policy, in two parts. Firstly, Article 4.2. The Court of Auditors is right to conclude that decentralisation and the separation of policies in ZBOs and legal entities with a legal role undermines the Court's budgetary right. Around 60% of expenditure will then no longer fall under the direct responsibility of ministries. If you then know that in many departments the commitments per year are almost 100%, then there is little left of the Chamber's annual budget right. The annual report says that in 2017 we will have an under-exhaustment of 1.4 billion. Can I assume that through the end of the year margin this money will also be spent on the same goals and can I assume that all the money that is included in the end of the year margin can be seen as a windfall so that this can again be amended by the Chamber of the Spring Note? I was talking about Article 4.2. Ministers should provide all those organisations remotely with temporary and reliable information for the annual report. They must monitor the legitimate use of these organisations, and many of them must be accountable to the Minister for the effectiveness and effectiveness of their policies. And actually, we don't know any of this. The annual reports do not contain or do not contain sufficient information. The Court itself takes as an example the re-integration pathways of the UWV. The Minister's annual report does not show that in 2017 there was less re-integration than expected or what the relationship is between expenditure on reintegration and what the UWV really did to actually help people with disabilities. What does the Minister and the Prime Minister think of this and what are they going to do to make such information transparent for next year? For example, there is no overview or insight into how much public money is used by all these organisations at a distance, the Court states. Are we gonna get that next year? Is the cabinet gonna work on that? A next piece of puzzle is Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. Objectives, efficiency and effectiveness must be set out in every law. A very important piece of legislation, but you want that information to be aggregated in budgets, which I think would be the ideal situation. I have already mentioned the abolition of the dividend tax as an example. I am curious to see how Article 3.1 is going to work out for this proposal, but I am not getting an answer to my questions to explain it now. I'd like to know right now and not until the law is done. I would like a reply, because this is in fact true of all legislation. The Quality Insight operation is an important agreement in the government agreement, resulting from the Study Group on Budget Space. Another piece of puzzle for improving the quality of policy. Moreover, I wonder whether there is a lack of knowledge about efficiency and effectiveness in departments, as is stated. In my view, this is really about political will. The economists of finance know quite well what the abolition of the dividend tax means or not. But does the cabinet want to give a precise insight into this? I think that is the political question much earlier. Finally, in terms of accountability in a limited sense, the benefit-burden system. We've been talking about that for about 20 years. The Court of Auditors has doubts about the ambitions of this cabinet as a result of the text in the government agreement. In response, the Minister writes that the aim is to introduce the system pragmatically. How should I see this debate between the cabinet and the Court of Auditors? And does the Minister agree with me that the benefit-burden system is a piece of puzzles, another piece of puzzles, in order to gain a better understanding of the costs and revenues of policy? Mr. Chairman. Then the Monitor Brede Prosperity, a completely new puzzle piece and a beautiful and important puzzle piece. Compliments for the CBS and all involved. Let's start with some practical questions. Last week we saw the Minister of Finance and the President of the Court of Auditors in the plenary when the annual financial report was formally presented to the Chamber. But the Monitor Brede Prosperity didn't. The Minister also did not mention it in his speech in the Chamber. That's too bad. Shouldn't that be different next year? The cabinet response came from the Minister of EZK, while the Prime Minister dropped his letter of responsibility this year. That too is a pity. It is more obvious that the Prime Minister uses his letter of responsibility to tie all these different pieces of puzzles together, and thus also to link the monitor to cabinet policy. A missed opportunity. Can't that be different next year? The monitor itself is good for the debate and provides more attention for broad prosperity. It is important that we look beyond the growth of GDP and state finances. A lot of things are going well in the Netherlands. There's confidence in the institutions and in each other. The economy is attracting and we are relatively very happy. But there are great differences in the distribution of broad prosperity. This applies to income, unemployment, health, experienced housing costs, trust in other people, and satisfaction with life and personal well-being. In particular, the gap between low- and high-skilled workers is pregnant and consistently present. But how does this relate to cabinet policy? How does the Prime Minister account for this gap? What are the targets? What does the Cabinet want to achieve here? And then there is a very specific question. The monitor is based on the capital approach: natural capital, human capital and social capital. Actually, it makes more sense to look at property relations in people rather than income figures. I'd like a response. At the same time, it is worrying that we have just discussed in an interrupting debate that almost everyone seems to decline in purchasing power, at least according to SZW's annual report. But we got a new table through the Ministry of Finance and both tables do not match, while both are based on CEP figures from the CPB. I'd like to get some clarification on that. Our considerable prosperity here and now is at the expense of natural capital in the Netherlands. On several indicators, we score poorly on the European ranking: nitrogen surplus, renewable electricity, cumulative CO emissions and nature. Economic growth means, on the contrary, that CO emissions are rising again. Here you see very well, and that is one of the added value of the monitor, the exchange between wealth in a narrow and broad sense. The question is: what is this supposed to mean for policy? You'd expect a policy impulse for disappointing CO emissions. Is he gonna be there? Our prosperity is also at the expense of wealth and capital elsewhere in the world, even if it is corrected for re-export through the port of Rotterdam. The Netherlands will then remain on the European lists with the lowest ten countries when it comes to imports of fossil energy carriers, metals and minerals. I look a bit more critically at the Monitor Brede Prosperity than the VVD, I understand. In short, our prosperity here and now is at the expense of the future and elsewhere. The problem is that the monitor doesn't yet have a relationship with policy. There is no integrated responsibility. In many areas, such as care, living and security, the CBS states that there are no quantitative government targets. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? Then we have the Sustainable Development Goals. It is good that we are looking for an integration of both reports in the coming years. At least that's two pieces of puzzle that are tied together. But the title alone says it: sustainable development goals; goals that we want to achieve. Then there has to be a relationship between these goals, the goals in budgets, the related policies and the responsibility for them later. As the Court of Auditors points out, no Ministry, with the exception of Foreign Trade and OS, pays attention to these sustainable goals. Isn't that strange, I ask the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. We have a lot of puzzle pieces that can improve goals, policies and accountability, so that we can finally tell the taxpayer exactly what we are doing with 270 billion in revenue. It must be careful, economical and sensible. But bringing all these pieces together and bringing them together; we are far from there. So my main question for today is: what are we going to do to make all these pieces fit together and what role do the Minister and the Prime Minister see for themselves in this process? I realize very well that this is a long-term process. I also have a few very specific questions in order to have specific goals for myself in this debate and to avoid motions. Can we expect sustainable targets to be included in budgets as a first finger exercise for next year? Can we get an overview of remote organisations in the annual report next year, as required by Article 4.2 of the Compatibility Act? Do we get an insight into the quality as a Chamber? The Minister has already promised that we will have a plan of action, but I would also like to pay attention to how the Court can monitor and monitor this process. Perhaps that could also explicitly include how the cabinet, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance can see how Article 3.1 is actually being implemented in legislation. Finally, there is an assignment to myself. With Joost Sneller, I am the rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Finance on the Income and Charges Scheme. We will try to stimulate this debate ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u75	Thank you. It is very good that you, as a Member of Parliament, together with Mr Sneller, take on the rapporteur. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prior to the presentation of the annual reports, the final laws and the comments of the General Court, we received lessons in happiness from Guido Weijers, a cheerful note, thanks to the organizers of the day. It was right in the bull's-eye, especially given the fact that the first Monitor Brede Prosperity was also presented. This monitor tries to make it measurable that for the happiness of the inhabitants of the Netherlands more is needed than a thriving economy. Maybe that's in our nature, too. Simon Schama gave his book about our Golden Age the title Abundance and Unpleasant for a reason. Probably in the pursuit of happiness itself is something of tragedy locked up. The philosopher Pascal Bruckner wrote in his book "Thou shalt be happy!" That happiness as a goal is so vague that it makes it uncertain because of its unclearness. Perhaps in uncertainty there is a breeding ground for ever unease. But let me first deal with the abundance, and then perhaps disproportionately long to reflect on the displeasure. The country's finances are doing well. The economy is in full swing. Unemployment is less than 5% of the labour force. Economic growth is above 10%. And the budget surplus has become more than 1%. When we look at the revenue, expenditure and liabilities of the national accounts, the General Court finds that more than 99% of these components are lawful. There are fewer and less major errors in the final laws than in 2016. All this is worth a compliment. If everything seems to be going well, it is not easy to recognise that there may also be problems. We are therefore very pleased that the problems raised by the General Court are recognised and taken seriously by ministers. This contrasts with last year when the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of the United States of America denied these problems. However, we would like to emphasise the importance of a sensible budgetary policy. The budget surplus of 8 billion sounds good, but if we deal wisely with this and stick to the budgetary rules, we will really benefit from it if we go down again. Then we don't have to intervene as drastically as before, but that does require discipline. It may sound a bit contradictory, but a sensible fiscal policy is not the same as a policy aimed at undermining. How can it be that for years it has been a broad desire of the Chamber to invest in infrastructure and defence, but that there has been a large under-utilisation in these ministries for years, ranging from 100 million to sometimes even 500 million? Why does this barely improve over the years? Can we give some insight into that? The fact that our country is doing so well here and now also seems to be confirmed by the image we get from the Monitor Brede Prosperity. The CDA has been looking forward to the arrival of this monitor, a monitor that wants to take a picture of how we stand as a Dutch society alongside the development of GDP. He does this not by providing a single indicator, but by offering a whole range of indicators in the areas of society, safety, nature and the environment. Of course, when there are so many indicators, everyone will be able to get their own right out of them. There is an indicator for everyone that indicates that his or her party's plans provide the better answer to today's and tomorrow's problems, from here to who lives far away. We see in the addition that a clearer understanding of social developments is given, in addition to economic development. We are also pleased that the developers indicate that there is still time to come up with a better model. That does not alter the fact that we believe that a good first picture has been taken. We would like to thank the people, the agencies, CBS and SCP, who have worked on this. Then, as a parliament, it is still a search for how we want to deal with the monitor. Will it be an integral part of Accountability Day, in addition to the treatment of the annual documents, or will we take the parts to the departmental treatment? We are also curious to see which place this has been given to the cabinet in the meantime. Have the trade ministers discussed the results? Are they taking the results towards the establishment of the budget for the coming years? Then we move slowly within the Monitor Brede Prosperity to the points of displeasure. The previous cabinet has focused on the participatory society. Everyone's in. Then it is remarkable that volunteering has declined. The CDA hopes that the introduction of a social service can contribute to people's young experience of how important it is to learn how cool it is to work for the other. We share the Court's observations on the measureability of the results of policies. However, we would also like to comment on this measureability. Because is every policy measurable? After all, how measurable are investments in security and defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u77	One of the things that is very measurable is people's purchasing power. We have seen that purchasing power has fallen enormously behind last year. 2017 would be the year that everyone improved, but unfortunately. How does the CDA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u78	This is, of course, a disappointment for us. However, the cabinet was only there part of the year. So we are even more interested in how purchasing power is going to develop this year. However, when you see that economic growth is going so well, it is quite logical that part of the unease in our society results from the loss of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u79	People see the profits rise, hear that the dividend tax can be abolished, but do not notice it in the wallet itself. If there is a slight rise in wages, inflation rises faster, rents rise harder and the care premium increases harder. And then we haven't even talked about the energy bill. Does the CDA not agree with just making the deal: purchasing power is growing as much as the economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u80	There lies an economic model behind which you could make all this so makeable that I do not entirely share it. It is true what Mrs Leijten says, namely that the purchasing power of someone whose personal circumstances do not change at all, is barely improving. Of course there are also people, and that is always less in these figures, who had no job at first and who then go to a job. At that moment, they will notice that purchasing power is increasing. But there are also people who have been fired. So I wonder if you could just tell me what's going on. I wouldn't know exactly how to do that either. A kind of supplement should then be sent after the tax assessment. This is based on an economic model that is not ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u81	Well, how about a wage rise, a wage rise as high as the economy grows? Now we know that our Minister for the Interior is leading a collective bargaining dispute, because she does not want to increase civil servants' salaries by 3.5%. We had a debate on this last year. Then it was said: wages must be raised. The IMF says that and everyone says that. The former Minister of Finance has even joined the union, because wages need to be raised. And this cabinet says, no, we're gonna have a collective agreement dispute with the civil servants. Would it not be good if we in the Chamber were to say: we do not want that at all, because we do want these wages to rise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u82	I say again that, in the case of wage negotiations, collective bargaining, it is primarily a matter for the social partners. With the Empire, I think the clear rule of the game is to follow what is happening in the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr. Snels and Mr. Van Dijck want to interrupt. Who was before? Mr. Tony van Dijck was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u84	I will come back to this point. I hear the CDA spokesman say: I hope that this year's purchasing power will turn out a little better than last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u85	Well, it could be a little more than "something."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u86	Well, a little bit more, because last year it was mostly negative. But we know what's in the barrel for the people this year, and that's not much. Last year it was negative, now it appears, and this year it is a crumb: 0.6%. It is not even 1% yet, but 0.6%, but wages will have to rise by 2.5% and inflation will not exceed 1.6%. In other words, you have nothing for this year. What are you going to do about the disappointment among the people?You acknowledge that it is there and what are you going to do to serve those people at least before 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u87	2018 is, of course, a year in which a lot of preparations are indeed being made to allow for the reduction of the burden that will happen in the coming period. So yes, in that sense, 2018 will indeed not solve those big changes that we would like to see. But it also creates an environment in which the social partners can better negotiate with each other. In my view, this also makes it possible for workers to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u88	I think you're going to ask your last question, Mr. Van Dijck. Yeah, it's going really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u89	It could be just like that. The CDA is the party to the ruling "after the acid it comes sweet." For eight years, people have had a hard time because the finances were really bad at the time. Now there is sweetness: last year 3% and this year almost 3% of economic growth. But now you keep kicking the can forward by saying: yes, maybe next year, we hope, we hope and we do nothing else. Do you understand that that's why people lose faith in politics? You don't act and you don't actually give people anything, and the saying "after the acid it comes sweet" is an empty promise every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Van Dijck says "don't act." Of course, part of the action is being taken, because people who do not have a job but who do get a job now will have seen that that is all right. That does not alter the fact that I very much recognise the concern that Mr Van Dijck addresses. In my view, it is a major challenge that has been widely borne in mind that this wage development for workers is actually progressing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr President, almost every poll shows that the unease in society is deep, despite the good economic figures. I see Mr Snels standing at the interrupting microphone, Mr President. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u93	Me too. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will leave the purchasing power debate to the cabinet for clarification first. Is everyone going backwards according to SZW, or is everyone getting around it according to Finance? Those two totals aren't quite right, or at least they can't be placed side by side. But I have a question about the Monitor Brede Prosperity. I welcome the CDA's fine words about the monitor, but I found the spokesperson somewhat hesitant in his questions to the cabinet. What is this going to mean for the political debate and for accountability? Does Mr Slootweg also share my speech in which I say that we should at least try to set out some very concrete goals in budgets as well, and to experiment on how we can lead those objectives from the monitor and the Sustainable Development Goals from the budget to accountability?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u95	I have heard Mr Snels' speech. It's kind of new to me. I haven't thought about it this way. So I would first like to know whether all this is possible in this way. At the moment you have the Monitor Brede Prosperity, I think it's decent to see how to report on it as well. Mr Snels also argued that we should not allow all sorts of things to exist side by side, but that we should have an integrated picture. I think this is just something in which you want to see the measurement of policy outcomes. I do not want to say yet that this is the solution, but we warmly welcome everything that contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u96	Mr Slootweg spoke of unease. Last night we had the debate on the interest rate, with my own initiative proposal. College Ommzigt spoke at the time. In short, he said that discounts should simply take place if the situation around the level of coverage remains that way. But he's hoping there'll be a new system. If these reductions continue to threaten in 2020...... if this level of coverage remains below 104 for five years.............................................................................................. Can Mr Slootweg understand that people do not understand at all that pension funds are wealthy and the coverage rate is too low only because of the Draghi rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u97	I think Mr Van Rooijen recognises that the CDA has constantly commented on the policy of the European Central Bank, on the broad monetary policy. That is what we believe to be the root cause of it. What is rich with pension funds? Of course, it's not just about what's in the greenhouse right now. Mr Van Rooijen will agree with me that people who are now retired and are going to be 85 do not want there to be too little left at the end. You have to have an appropriate policy in that regard. We believe that this is most complicated by the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. We still want this to change. That is what we will continue to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u98	I know the CDA's point of view, but I don't understand it at all. With Mr Omtzigt, as one of the few in the Chamber, I believe that policy should really have stopped and perhaps never should have taken place. It's gotta stop now. What he doesn't want and I do want is for us to take away the effects of this artificially reduced rate of interest.The Dutch Bank says it's at least 1% for those 10 million Dutch people, to keep them from thinking in two years' time that it can happen by Draghi that pensions will be reduced, while the state is rich, there is growth and there is 10 billion more coming in. Can Mr Slootweg with me the consequences of ECB policy, which we both think is wrong,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr. Van Rooijen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u100	Can he take away the consequences of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u101	... this debate has already been held in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u102	I understand what Mr Van Rooijen is saying. Mr Omtzigt will undoubtedly have put it better than I do today. The big difference, in my opinion, lies in the fact that Mr Van Rooijen emphasizes the question of how, as a Dutch government, we should fight the consequences. We have a set of measures with which we try to improve the income position of older people. But they are not the only ones, because Mr Van Rooijen is talking about an amount of 10 billion, so he also includes the employees. We want much more than just looking at the consequences. We want to know what caused it. We really want to start with the cause. I believe that there is a difference of opinion between Mr Van Rooijen and our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u103	Proceed, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u104	Almost every poll shows that the unease in society is deep, despite the good economic figures. There are several explanations for this. In addition to the discontent about personal security experience, for example, it also has to do with the fact that people don't believe a policy that promises that everyone gets better if they don't notice it directly. Take the people for whom the pension is an important part of the income, or the single earners who, as the CPB recently pointed out, have to deal with a tax burden that is no longer effective. But people also experience a sense of unreliability in government policies. Let me highlight one group: self-employed people with an AOW-hole by raising the retirement age. The increase in the AOW age has led to some self-employed workers now having to benefit from the assistance. This group of selfemployed persons had been insured against incapacity for work up to the age of 65. However, they were already disabled when the AOW age was increased. Because one is self-employed, one cannot rely on a bridging arrangement. This is a forgotten group that cannot benefit from the economic revival, but sees the consequences of public policy. I think this kind of thing nourishes that. The CDA Group will also have a place to express its displeasure when we see where the General Court is pointing the finger and what the CDA has called attention to when drawing up the 2017 budget. The CDA warned in 2016 that more investment was needed in the Tax Administration to address the problems there, that the pgb-systematiek had rising implementation costs and was stalled in terms of implementation, that Defence needed to be given more attention and that money and performance at Security and Justice needed to become more transparent. Let me walk you through these cases. The General Court notes for the second year in a row that the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration have the highest number of deficiencies with eight shortcomings. According to the Court, important concerns are guidance, monitoring, staff policy and internal information sharing. I want to zoom in on staff shortages in ICT in relation to information security. I am referring to this point here, at the Tax Office, but I am actually asking for attention to it in a state-wide sense. The control of information security in this core department is insufficient. This affects the confidence of Dutch people that their data is in good hands. Is it possible to outline whether this can be resolved within a year? The General Court establishes a clear relationship with a lack of fixed staff. What we want to know is whether there are any blockades to recruit more permanent personnel in the field of ICT. Is it just a question of money, or are there other things that block the way to become an ICT specialist in government service? Then there's the strategic personnel policy at the IRS. Firstly, there is the Court of Auditors' finding that the Tax Administration did not have any useful information on staff flows, therefore it is not well able to steer and that there is insufficient information on the knowledge and expertise of supervisory staff and their need for knowledge and expertise. The answer to this problem is the implementation of a new top structure. Has it been implemented by the IRS? Have the individual service components already prepared an organisation and formation report? If so, what are the results? Secondly, the Court of Auditors now finally notes that it cannot be established whether the tax administration's system of penalties was lawful. That's a big deal. How does the Minister feel about this? What lesson is learned from this for future arrangements? In addition, the CDA considers it important that the problems surrounding the primary processes are resolved. On a number of parts the collection has been delayed. Our tax system has become too complex, in such a way that, according to the Court of Auditors, this poses a risk to the continuity of business. Already due to system problems the supplement on petrol has been postponed. Is the problem with the primary processes now so great that the introduction of new charges is so directly at risk? I am thinking, for example, of environmental measures for air traffic and the introduction of withholding charges on interest and royalties. Can the Minister provide his insight into that? Before I look at the pgb problem, I come first to the serious observation about the same ministry of VWS about shortcomings in the management of grants. I would like to join with the questions put by Mr Van der Linde on this subject. I look forward to hearing the government's replies on this matter. During the general reflections in 2016, the CDA called for a reduction in implementation madness and the associated high implementation costs around the pgb-systematiek. I would like to mention a few facts. About 2017, the Social Insurance Office reports that between 8 and 17% of the payments are still unlawful. The total implementation costs of pgb under the Long-Term Care Act amount to almost 100 million. The costs incurred by municipalities for their work are not made clear at national level. Is it possible to obtain a complete overview, including the costs incurred by the municipalities, of the implementation of the pgb? These costs, which we already know, are extremely high on us. Is there no rule of thumb for the implementation costs to be justified? In addition, in 2017, cooperation between municipalities and healthcare offices on the right of pgb draw was difficult. In 2017 the VWS Ministry, in consultation with all interested parties, drew up a roadmap to clarify governance, the set of management, control, supervision and accountability around the pgb right of draw. The Court notes that this plan does not give a clear picture of the governance in the final situation. The Minister did not comment on this observation. We want to know why there is no clear picture of governance in the final situation for the pgb scheme. In the previous cabinet period, the CDA has pleaded year after year for more money for Defense. In 2017, Defense was able to count on extra money; a little less than 200 million to strengthen the basic readiness. However, the previous minister used this additional financial space mainly to improve the failing management and not to strengthen the basic readiness. That is remarkable in itself. It is even more remarkable that, despite this, five shortcomings have been detected in the defence sector. It indicates how necessary it is for the Defense Department to be given additional resources. I do not even dare to say the word 'investment'; it is about recovery. Can the Minister guarantee that the funds that will be used in the coming period actually correspond to the objectives for which the Chamber has made them available? Is there any need for more money and knowledge to put the company's operations in order at the Department of Defense? What support can the Ministry of Finance provide? The WRR has previously advocated a separate safety planning agency. What is the Minister's view of strengthening knowledge on this issue in the current planning agencies? As far as we are concerned, this should be done at the expense of the ginico-ficent department at the CPB. Then Justice and Security. In 2016, the CDA requested clarification on the relationship between investments and targets, in particular on the issues of judicial procedure and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Court notes that there is a stock problem in the criminal proceedings of the Public Prosecutor. The stock of criminal matters is much greater than the intended 30% of criminal cases. The Court considers it important to look at the chain and not just at the individual chain partners. That seems wise to me, because it is hard for many people to understand that prisons must be closed on the one hand, while on the other hand the stock problem is getting smaller, despite the falling inflow of business. In addition, the CDA Group is concerned about the development of the Council's own funds for the judiciary. Being in control, both in terms of finance and accountability, is something the Public Prosecutor's Office is struggling with. According to the Minister, are we on the right track now? And have there been any things that we can expect in the past period? In addition to these cases, the annual report also identified some new issues in the annual report and the Court's observations. It is shocking to read about the security leak at the Dutch Caribbean Office. Finally, the fact that the Court of Auditors had to raise objections before any necessary action had been taken suggests that. I have some questions about this. 1. How can we prevent the use of a horse's tool, such as the Court of Auditors' objection, before the Minister takes action? 2. Is it possible to identify the consequences of not being in order with regard to information security, so that data from citizens and companies could possibly be accessed through the Caribbean Netherlands National Office? 3. Has this imperfection been reported to the Personal Data Authority? If not, why not? Doesn't the Personal Data Authority have a role to play? Then a couple of notable things we saw at the Ministry of Education. We're seeing more students and students than the Ministry expected and therefore a setback of 121 million. On the other hand, we see an under-utilisation of 96 million, which is largely explained by schools that let out too many pupils without a diploma and teachers who do not use the teacher grant. What, according to the Minister, is the explanation that people have been so wrong in the estimation of the number of pupils and students? It is for the second year in a row that an understatement is taking place. Shouldn't the Ministry be able to solve this on an annual basis? One year a windfall, the other year a setback: it always seems like a strange cut or that there is money left, while it is an autonomous development. It seems to us to be a rather simple demographic sum. How do these changes come about? Around Social Affairs, I would like to address the reintegration activities. In 2017, 206 million were made available to the UWV. Firstly, it is unclear how many reintegration pathways and work facilities have been purchased. Secondly, it is not reported that around 50 million have not been spent. Thirdly, what has been achieved with these purchased routes remains unclear. How can we gain more insight into how much is being spent, what is being spent and whether the desired goals are being achieved? This plays a role in the reintegration processes of the UWV, but we could also ask the same question for sheltered work, for example. How does the Minister intend to justify this policy in the future? I'll conclude. The above seems to be a litany of things that have gone wrong. I did not want to feed the feeling of displeasure in the cabinet. Once again, with the legitimacy of over 99% and fine economic figures, there is sufficient reason to compliment. With the Monitor Brede Welvaart we get a better picture of how the Netherlands stands. That picture doesn't look bad either. But in chasing that unclear goal, happiness, will remain a feeling of unease. Perhaps part of the Dutch's happiness is that he has the freedom to complain and to show his displeasure about what is not good. I wanted to contribute to that feeling of happiness of that Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u105	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u106	The crisis is over. The growth of our economy went faster and harder in 2017 than in the years before the crisis. The number of workers has grown faster than at any time since the crisis. And now, for the first time since the crisis, public debt is back below 60%. There is 8 billion left in the budget, while a deficit was assumed. There are windfalls in income tax, windfalls in income tax, windfalls in VAT and social benefits. This is the result of more work, more profit and more spending. There is also a windfall that the cabinet might not have wanted to see. The dividend tax received an additional 0.5 billion. There remains net, because there is also a deduction, 200 million of which remain, but all this makes the abolition of the dividend tax even more expensive than budgeted. But we'll see about that later. It is good news for everyone who puts public finances first, because we are out of the crisis, things are getting better. But who's doing better? And what exactly does "out of the crisis" mean? We have all seen the Monitor Brede Prosperity, a welcome addition to just looking at our country numerically. But we do see that today's prosperity is borrowed from elsewhere and from future generations. We also see that prosperity is very unevenly distributed. Then you're not just talking about income and wealth, but then you're talking about expectations, how you feel, health. Then when you see the state with dots on the back, you see that men who have a theoretical level of education called "high-educated," but high and low sounds so negative and who are born here, have it very well. When you look at those dots, you see that there are really gaps in our society. We've talked about these gaps before. Where you are born, where you have been to school and who your parents are, to a tremendous extent determines the possibilities you have and the future you will have. Of course there are always exceptions, of course there are always people who break through all kinds of walls and ceilings, but does the government allow that? Do we make this possible through our educational system, through the way we have organized our society? Less and less, and that's a problem. So we see the gap in society. It's about education, where you were born, whether you're husband or wife and who your parents are. We see that the wealth inequality in our country is the second highest in the world. Only in the United States is power inequality greater. This doesn't include the pension jars. That doesn't include the retirement pots. What are you gonna do about this? The distribution of wealth is indeed a task for the government. It's not just about bringing in money. Is the Minister prepared to examine the possibilities for a wealth tax for the richest in our country? That way they can also contribute. The more power you have, the less taxes you have to pay. Property income is taxed much lower than income from work. That's not fair anymore. We've had a crisis and the power inequality is greater rather than smaller. What are we gonna do about this? We're out of the crisis, but the purchasing power figures are lagging behind. We've heard that before. Actually, everyone's been talking about that. My question to the Minister of Finance is: how can we ensure that purchasing power increases as fast as economic growth? Can he give us some examples of how we can do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u107	I'm just trying to figure out the bandages. Of course, I have also seen in the Monitor Brede Prosperity that you are lagging behind if you have a non-Western background and if you are educated low. But what does that have to do with redistributing wealth? Are non-Western people suddenly placed in a much better position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u108	Yeah, you'll have resources to improve the education system, for example. That doesn't have the emancipatory power it used to have. Then you don't have to give students who are going to borrow a huge amount of college debt. We can organize things. For example, we can organise neighborhoods to be refurbished where necessary. Of course, there are people who break through walls and glass ceilings. There are always exceptions, but there are more and more signs that the gaps that have been struck in our society in recent neoliberal times can hardly be bridged. It's gonna take investments. You can see that in the care. There is a huge backlog of people who have more practical training. They die eight years earlier and live in far worse polite conditions for decades. We know that care costs are increasingly being placed on the patient. Those people are financially lagging behind. You can fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u110	You can fix that with each other. It is not just a question of how much comes in, but also of how you divide prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u111	I can see the problem, just like the SP. There is no denying this, but we already have the most egalitarian society in the world. Nowhere are income disparities as small as in the Netherlands. Is there something wrong with the existing government policy in which we simply say: there will be an extra 1.5 billion for education, precisely to involve those people? Policies are constantly geared to ensuring that people can come and participate and that we work towards integration and compulsory integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u112	If you're working on integration and mandatory integration for people who have been here for generations, I think you're having the wrong discussion. That's the first thing. I think it's a good thing that the VVD sees the problems at least, because when you see them, you can also look at solutions. I think that is very positive, let me say that. But the fact that we have the greatest power inequality after the United States is a cause for concern. The fact that income from labour is falling on that labour income ratio, which we had a hearing about the other day, is also a cause for concern. This calls for a capital tax for the most wealthy, because about the income that you can get out of wealth, you pay about 10% tax, while you pay about 35% on labour income. We can narrow that down, can't we? That would be very good for our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u114	Last week the Minister was delighted about the good figures he was allowed to present and which were also from another cabinet. He told me no less than seven times in his speech about the state debt. The word "buy power" didn't come back in his speech, the word "income" didn't come back in the speech and the word "twosome" didn't come back in the speech either. I missed the people, the families, the children and the elderly in our country with our Minister of State Finance. Because wasn't the promise in this budget that everyone would get better? Everyone. In the 2017 government budget, signed by Dijsselbloem, it was said: to ensure that everyone gets better next year, we have allocated extra money for the purchasing power of minima and elderly people. Unfortunately, they're going into the minus. What the hell went wrong here? How can we make sure that we stop this unease, as the CDA calls it, and as far as I'm concerned, just break your promise every time in the purchasing power cards? We need to be much more honest about how the cake is distributed and what burdens are thrown into your lap. How does it work with the energy bill, the care bill and the rent account if, for example, wages do not rise? In 2016 we had a major debate here with the Minister of Health on the 2017 budget. She had put forward a very positive proposal for the care premium. Even the health insurance companies said that: we don't recognize anything about this care premium. It's become true. The care premium is the largest bottleneck, the Minister replied yesterday, for purchasing power. How is this finance minister going to make things better? In January of this year CBS reported that long-term poverty in the Netherlands has increased to a quarter of a million households. Now purchasing power is falling again, after one year in the plus, for these groups. Can the Minister indicate what the declining purchasing power figures for minima, modal incomes and people in the AOW are very many groups; Mr Snels said that eleven out of 15 groups in the minus are going to mean for poverty in the Netherlands? I am very concerned that we are not able to simply give people a fair share of the growth. I also notice that it makes people cynical. "The treasury is full and I have to make ends meet." We continue to wonder how we can ensure that everyone benefits from the end of the crisis. How do we make sure we don't pin people's stories on the sleeve with the purchasing power tags? And then the wages. Let's get those up. Last year we talked about it on Accountability Day, on the Spring Note, on the Financial Reviews and, in my view, on the Government Declaration: wages should be raised. Minister Dijsselbloem even joined the union, because wages had to rise. At least wages don't go up in the Empire. We just heard the CDA say that the government should follow the market, but if the market sets a bad example, then the government should lead the market. I would like to ask this Minister of Finance why there is a collective agreement dispute with the government officials, who want 3.5%. What's too much about that? What's too much for 3.5%? And what would it actually cost if we did grant the government staff, but also, for example, the care and education, this 3.5% increase in wages? What does it cost and what does it yield, in purchasing power, for example? Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the distribution, but also about the state budget and government. The SP finds that there is still a leak in our government. The Dutch Caribbean Office had the digital door completely open, for three years. This has been pointed out by the service. Former Minister Plasterk and Minister Ollongren were reminded, but it was only when the General Court objected that the door was closed. Mr Slootweg asked good questions about this. Is this a data breach? What data have all been accessed and possibly changed in the entire government? Because it was a doorway to the entire government. Has this been reported to the Personal Data Authority? How can we prevent people from pointing out open doors, but there are ministers who do not mind at all? How do we prevent that? I ask the Prime Minister, because he is the chief of the previous cabinet and of this cabinet. We can see that things are going pretty badly in the ICT field. We've also gotten a sweep out of the pan ourselves, Mr. Chairman. That's what you're going to talk to the Chamber about, but we're talking to the government about the 15 ICT vulnerabilities. And you're not even talking about all the billions being thrown into the ditch in wrong tenders and wrong projects. It's just not going well. You can say, do we have the right people? Of course, these are all relevant questions from the VVD and the CDA, but do we also have the right priorities? That's a question for the Prime Minister. And then the IRS. That's where it leaks. It's leaking people there, because they're leaving while there's still work. There is no ICT system that works. It leaks at the inning: we get less than we would expect. It also leaks at the point of information. The Minister and the Secretary of State will hear that much too late, which means that we will hear it much too late. And how is it that until 2022, so in this cabinet period, this service should do it by 0.5 billion less for equipment costs? Can the Minister explain that? It is amazing how security always returns to major debates in this Chamber. Where the VVD is showing off to be the party for security, she completely abandons the police. For everyone who saw EenVandaag yesterday about PTSD, tears shoot in the eyes. How can you abandon people who are in the front line and who are at risk for their own lives in all kinds of situations? But it is not just that: we too as a society are abandoned. It doesn't take into account the departure of 14,000 agents, because they're retiring. However, half of the number of police stations will be closed in the next cabinet period, because that is what we agreed: all savings, because that would be better for the real estate. But with the closure of the police stations, we have hardly saved any money so far. So can we agree today that we are making a new calculation of exactly what the closure of those posts will mean and whether we still think that is our priority? The cops close? I'd like that. Mr. Chairman. It's leaking into the care system, too. There's a grant leak. When I was still in care, I often watched with wonder all kinds of project teams, support for the e-health and you name it all. Where did that money come from? 'Cause I thought we had to cut back. I thought home care was supposed to be about the blade, and the risk was to be increased. But there's a real subsidy leak and that's bigger than ever. I would like to know exactly which companies have received subsidies. Which project teams received funding? What people are in there? Are these 'friends of', as we have often seen them, or are these projects and grants for which we actually think this is a good idea and with which we carry on the concern? The next leak is the real estate leak. The Court of Auditors is not gentle about the functioning of the National Real Estate Company, and rightly so. The government tells us we're making 102 million dollars in the sale of state buildings. Turns out that's only 2 million. Is this a miscalculation that the Minister of Finance is ashamed of? That's what I'd like to know. This is the Room something on the sleeve, isn't it? This can't happen, can it? In another case we see that the National Real Estate Company sells an old tax office for 5 million euros and that building is worth 9 million the next day. Hello, what happened here? How come there's no picture of the total value of our real estate? How is it that a government agency that is about 9 billion is being tricked into selling real estate? Why does the sale of 83 public buildings only yield EUR 2 million? What was the World War II value of those buildings? And how can it not be explained that substantial deductions are nowhere? Mr. Chairman. There is also something going on in the world, at least in Europe. We still have the euro. We proposed in our electoral programme to take account of possible unbundling and to prepare ourselves for it by making a common plan with euro area countries, so that the end of the euro area can be done in a good way, but that is not what this cabinet is doing. I wonder if the new Prime Minister of Italy slept badly after yesterday's Minister of Finance said, "I warn Italy!" I don't think so. What kind of muscle does the Minister intend to use against Italy if it does what it does? Is that what we're gonna use our army to do? How does the Minister of Finance intend to say to a sovereign country: you cannot spend money? I can't wait to hear it. It is true that there is a worryingly high level of public debt in Italy, and I would not like to take an example of this, but private debt is very low in Italy. If we put our public and private debts together in the Netherlands, so the debts we have as a State and we have as citizens, are we not very similar to Italy? Are not debts ultimately just the big problem of the euro area that we are not solving? Mr. Chairman. There is a certain creasibility of saying to Italy how it should govern, but that we should not do anything about wages, that we should leave that to the market. It's kind of crazy. If you're going to tell them how to do it, you should actually do it right in your own country. I have another request for the Minister of Finance. Hungary, France, the United Kingdom and seven other Member States are not waiting for bad plans from the European Commission for the tech giants with a maximum of 3% tax, but they are making their own sales tax. I wonder if the government is prepared to do the same, to present a turnover tax for the tech giants in the Tax Plan. They can do the same in the other countries. Let us not wait for the Commission to make bad proposals which do not relate to European authority and Dutch tax sovereignty. Let us not wait for that, let us do it ourselves. Ten countries lead us. I'll put it to you in a motion later. I think it's a good idea. Mr. Chairman. Are things going well in our country? People generally see personally that they are well. They enjoy watching their children grow up and experience their lives as pleasant. This is also reflected in the Monitor Brede Prosperity. But there are concerns, and there are concerns mainly about the government budget and a finance minister who only looks at the financial picture. I'd like to ask you one more thing. I've done that before. Why does he warn Italy because things are not going well financially and Malta is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u116	In Malta, a journalist was shot after corruption. Then a country will not be warned if it is not tracked down, but if you make budget plans, you will be warned. That's out of proportion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. "Promise everyone everything." This is one of the oldest lessons in the textbook of politicians. Two millennia ago Quintus Cicero helped his brother Marcus on his way to the Roman Consulate. We may not be as skilled at it as the current five-star descendants of the Ciceros already referred to it, Mrs Leijten, but also in the Netherlands we are doing our best with the political promises. In that tradition, before I begin my speech, I would like to make a promise that I will not resort to the language of Cicero. After all, you have heard enough of that last year. Mr. Chairman. Around Accountability Day we look over our shoulder back to the past year. Today, therefore, the supervisory role of the Chamber is a key issue. We are not concerned with tomorrow's concerns, but above all with yesterday's questions. As lice fathers and lice mothers, we are here ready for the wild hairdo of hundreds of pages of annual reports. Or, in the words of D66-Room Member Jan van Walsem, one of the initiators of Accountability Day in the nineties: "A day when we do not respond to news reports, but look at the real performance of policies. Has the cabinet achieved what it had in mind in the past year and what really happened to the tax money we decided on here?" Mr. Chairman. The little brother of Prince's Day is growing up. Once again, the cabinet receives an affirmative statement. We now assume that that is normal, but it is not so obvious. Historically not, because it has only been the case since 1993, but not internationally either, as I myself experienced when I was allowed to work with Parliament's government spending committee in Myanmar for a year and a half. But also closer to home is not self-evident. The European Union is still striving for it in vain. In 2017, 20% of the municipalities will not receive an approving audit opinion. We must also keep an eye on the rich. The part of the budget that the ministries themselves spend, which the government itself spends, does not meet the standard of 99% legitimate expenditure. "How is this even possible?', That is how I ask the Minister of Finance. I am convinced that more attention to accountability leads to better policies. I therefore welcome the fact that more parliamentary committees than ever have decided to appoint rapporteurs for the annual reports. Last Friday, the chairman reminded me that I was allowed to be chairman of the V100. For the second time, the House of Representatives invited 100 people who are dealing daily with the policies and financial choices we make here. It is a day when we are trying to make the link between the patient paper of the annual reports and the Court's reports on the one hand and the acute frustrations and practical experience of people on the other. Last year, the V100 raised questions about the quality of teachers and about the results of debt policy. Thanks to these questions, we now have a better idea of this. So that tightening-up from the outside helps. This year, too, sharp questions have been raised. I am now explaining two; the rest goes to the cabinet for a written reply. The permanent Chambers Committee for VWS had selected the theme: workload in the care sector. There's a serious shortage of personnel. That is why money was earmarked in the budget for tackling it. And yet 19% of the budget for training, almost a fifth, has not been spent, whereas that deficit is felt by the V00 participants and much wider still as large and urgent. So the question was rightly raised: how is that possible? Some questions were asked again because last year there was no answer, for example to the question of whether the target of 1.5% energy savings as agreed in the energy agreement was achieved in the last year. Still, or again, the V100 participants could not find the result achieved in the annual reports. I'd like a reaction to that, too. Mr. Chairman. Our main ally in the accountability is the General Court of Auditors. There they are! It is good for the checks and balances that their budget has been put back in order by the cabinet, as my group asked last year. Compliments for that. I call on the Cabinet now to make the arrangements to ensure that the budget is kept in order. The same Court of Auditors also notes this year that things are not going well everywhere. The security of information and the security of government ICT is a major problem, for example at the Dutch Caribbean Office, and also at the Dutch House of Representatives, President. So I suppose we're looking at ourselves at that point, too. It seems to be a symptom of the fact that information security and ICT, however crazy that may sound after all the incidents and years of shortcomings, are still not getting the attention they deserve. But I know the Prime Minister's gonna kick in when he hears the word "chefsache," so he knows what he's gonna do next year. It is important to put the ICT knowledge of the Empire in order. At present, half of the ICT personnel for some tasks are hired outside Logius that is the service that manages, among other things, the message box. How does that relate to the Roemer motion that the Chamber adopted in response to the 2009 accountability? As a result, a ceiling of 10% external hire was set. But more importantly, how are the continuity and quality of knowledge guaranteed by such a high dependence on external hire? Especially with the tight labour market, it is difficult to find and bind the right people. The reports on that are on the shelf. I think it's a matter of implementation. I'd like to hear more about that. Mr. Chairman. The attack is sometimes the best defense. That's why, over the past year, Defense and Finance have been ethically hacking into finding out where their weaknesses are. Is every ministry gonna do this? And does every ministry, for example, have a bugbounty program? That's what I've been told. Is that a good idea? If not, is the Prime Minister prepared to promote this for all ministries, and perhaps the President too? The Court of Auditors also strongly considers the State Real Estate Company, which has already been mentioned, as regards both the soft underpinning of the cuts and the way in which buildings have been disposed of, as well as the limited insight that has been given in them. My group is not reassured by the reply of the cabinet to these observations by the Court of Auditors. Can I therefore invite the Minister of Finance to make one more attempt here before my colleague Van Eijs continues to do so in committee? Mr. Chairman. Accountability is never finished. We should not only do this thoroughly every year, we should also improve it every year, always bearing in mind whether we have received an adequate answer to these crucial questions: did the cabinet do the right thing and did the cabinet what it did? And I'm just saying as it is, that insight into these annual reports is still insufficient. That's why we have a new Compatibility Act. That's why Operation Understanding Quality is in the coalition chord. And that is why I, along with my colleague Mr Snels, will be able to report on behalf of the Chamber this autumn on whether we consider the attitude of this cabinet to an income-burden system, like the Court of Auditors, 'too non-committal and not sufficiently ambitious', and also how this can help with the better accountability cycle that we are all striving for. We have another, as it's called, "cassette system." The Chamber called for more attention to be paid to the system of obligations for 2017. This showed that on the first day of 2017 several ministries did not actually have room to enter into new commitments for the same year. Does the Minister consider that a desirable situation in a complex and rapidly changing world? I also wonder whether the Chamber is always sufficiently aware of this. That is why I ask the Cabinet, as long as we still have this system, to provide a better understanding of the obligations that might result from it, and not only from the budget in Annex 13. This time there are some good examples of this, such as the SDE scheme and how it has obligations up to 2031. I wonder how many of us realize this. Another obstacle to better accountability has also been mentioned: the fragmentation of the necessary information about different monitoring and implementation organisations, with own methods and own reporting moments. Does it have to become even more complicated before we make it easier, or are we going to prevent the shore from turning the ship, so I ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I have to confess, I'm not a big fan of carriages myself. I would therefore like to give the President of the General Court a good reason to turn Madame Bovary's page permanently next year, but we have to get to work on this. And is the Prime Minister prepared to come up with something new, for example what the Court of Auditors calls "integrated accountability"? He remembers it: a dot on the horizon, an ambition, a vision on which all the institutions involved can unite, even though we know from the beginning that the road will be long. The Operation Comptabel Order, which I mentioned at the beginning, the project that led to that approving audit report in 1993 took years, but the result was very bad. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're going back on one of these paths. I am in favour of integrating the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Gross domestic product, GDP, remains a leading measure of prosperity. It is conceptually powerful and globally recognized, but also a measure with serious and increasingly felt limitations, geometrically and morally. The Broad Prosperity Monitor provides a more detailed picture of the complex reality behind that GDP and the growth averages. I think that as a room with that monitor, we have two assignments. The first is to develop it. As I said in the direction of Mr Van Dijck, the CBS explicitly invites us to do so. Is it all conceptually correct, are the indicators the right ones? For example, I heard poverty come along a number of times, but you see relatively little of it. Are the data up-to-date enough, can the presentation be improved? Last week we made a good start on the round table. But the Chamber, the Cabinet and the CBS must continue to do so, because in a democracy it is crucial that we have a common factual basis, so that not the one with the biggest microphone determines what is true. I am proud that we are at the forefront of this in the Netherlands, but vigilance is needed. The second command I see is using the monitor. Just use it for debates like today's. At first glance, the Netherlands seems to be a privileged piece of paradise on earth in the here and now, a benevolent oasis in a fierce world, rich, confident in each other and simply happy. Yet it is certainly not just hosanna. Our prosperity is unevenly distributed. Women, young people, people between 55 and 65, people with lower education and Dutch people with a non-Western background are significantly worse off. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet response writes very easily about this. What does the Prime Minister think of these findings? If this responsibility is also the beginning of a new cycle, what does he want to do with those outcomes? As far as D66 is concerned, the answer begins with equality and education. The monitor also shows that our prosperity is not only unevenly distributed, but also has negative consequences for our environment and for our children and grandchildren. That is not only unjust, but it is also unsustainable. In many cases this is because pollution, exploitation and exhaustion are simply too cheap. Economic theory then speaks of market failure, one of the legitimate grounds for public intervention. As far as I am concerned, the biggest flaw of our democracy is that future generations do not have the right to vote, so that duty rests on us. I mentioned this in my maiden speech last autumn in that regard all the social-liberal values of future surveillance. That is why D66 is committed to making our economy and society more sustainable. That starts with our dependence on gas and oil. Here, too, the one-sided focus on economic figures is vengeful. When I leave the gas stove on at home all day, that's good for GDP. But otherwise, of course, that is not good for anything at all. Finally, the dimension elsewhere. I think that this is the least convincing development in the monitor, but I do believe that our international aid must be increased and that our greenhouse gas footprint, as the CBS calls it, I believe that a different term for this can be used next year. Mr. Chairman. I shall conclude, but not after Mr Nijboer has been given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u119	I don't know how much more you think you need, or you can finish your story as far as I'm concerned first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Last Wednesday, for the nineteenth time in May, we received the accountability of the cabinet and the Court of Auditors. For the first time we also received the Monitor Brede Prosperity of the CBS. We have come a long way when it comes to good accountability, but we also have a long way to go, because accountability is never finished. There's still a lot of work to be done. I can see the two rulers thinking, "Happy birthday." I understand that feeling very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u121	I thought it was good that Mr Sneller of D66 said at the end that you should also do something with all that data. The CBS and the Court of Auditors have worked very hard. The cabinet then actually sends Mr Sneller a slightly more tidy note. D66 mentions education and sustainability. Those are the parade horses. I understand that, and I am quite right to do so. But I'm asking D66 what she thinks of living. What's to be done with that? In the monitor you can see that there is a really big problem in the Netherlands. You don't even have to look at the monitor for that, but well, that's what we're talking about today. When you look outside, you see it. What should happen to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u122	I think it is very important that we continue to reduce the mortgage interest rate deduction and that homes become more accessible. It is also important that the housing market works better and that you see that the house sales are going to increase. The monitor contains a number of interesting points regarding the quality of the houses. I am concerned that the quality has decreased in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u123	Me, too, and especially the tenants. Look at tenants with pay problems, that's a factor five higher. The waiting lists are huge. The problem is that the planned government policy is helping to make huge savings on housing corporations and on the rent surcharge. I can imagine that D66, who always takes these statistics very seriously, comes to the conclusion that this is not a sensible line of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u124	I have mentioned a number of groups that have come to a relatively bad end. You can also see that certain groups are in it twice or even three times. Some of the things that Mr Nijboer is moving towards tenants also concern other problems that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u125	It has many dimensions, of course. The richest people in the Netherlands generally have a house for sale and not a cheap house for rent. With regard to tenants, there are more than four times as many payment problems. More than 20% of the people in a rental house can barely pay the rent. In order to save on the rent payment, you must be very creative in mind to call this sensible policy. Why does D66 stand behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u126	The monitor does not contain what Mr Nijboer says; there is talk of housing costs, which is slightly wider than just the rent. By making the housing stock more sustainable, and so on, the energy bill can be reduced, which can help. It doesn't say there's any payment problems. It says that they feel the burden is high. And I think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u127	Last remark, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u128	We can call it definition issues and so on, but it is a huge problem for tenants in the Netherlands to pay the rent and to get a house. Investors take over the cities. That's a big social problem and you can see it in the numbers in the monitor. I ask D66: what do you want to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u129	I know Mr Nijboer as someone who takes the figures seriously, but then he must really look at the statistics. If he did, we'd love to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u130	I heard Mr Sneller talking about representing future interests and interests elsewhere and that this may still need to be improved in the monitor. Does D66 also see opportunities, improvement points in the monitor for the interests of animals, to better represent animal welfare in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u131	At the round table conversation we came to talk about this for a moment. For example, the monitor mentions biodiversity as an indicator. It may come back to that, but how animal welfare as such contributes to the broad prosperity of people that this monitor sees primarily, I do not know very well, but I am very open to suggestions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u132	It is nice to hear that the wide welfare monitor should not only be about humans but also about animals. So if there are openings there, that's profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u133	After animal welfare, I would like to talk about the welfare of the people, especially of the ten million people, young and old, who are at risk of being cut short by 2020. D66 said last night that she is not going to support the proposal of 50PLUS, but that is what I thought was very interesting if a new system were to be introduced, it would not want discounts just before that and would ensure that those discounts did not take place. What I don't understand is that if we want to change something that's not allowed, but if D66 has a reason to do it, she will. In other words:50PLUS we don't give it and we're going to do it ourselves if we get what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u134	I am not going to respond to a debate that took place last night that I did not follow, because that seems unwise to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u135	I asked you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u136	You asked me a question about a debate that took place last night that I did not follow. Moreover, I believe that some of the adjustments to the pension system can solve some of the problems raised by Mr Nijboer, for example if you can use some of them earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u137	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now turn to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Court of Auditors and the CBS in particular for the enormous amount of work they have done. In fact, on behalf of the PvdA, I would like to address three major issues in this debate on accountability. First of all, broad prosperity. Secondly, a number of issues raised in the national responsibility and on which I have further questions. Thirdly, the problems of implementation. They do require a separate block because they are persistent and something has to be done. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the broad prosperity. I'm a member of the PvdA. We Social Democrats do not think it is enough that if prosperity rises and a country gets richer, we will all be better off together. The point is that everyone is not, on average, making a bit of progress, not only in prosperity or income, but also in other areas. When you're born somewhere, you have to have equal opportunities to make some of your life. If you live in a neighborhood where perhaps not so many successful people live, you should be able to achieve a lot if you do your best. If you look at the welfare monitor in that light, you can see that things are going quite well in the Netherlands on average on many aspects. Of course, we're a prosperous country. We don't have bad health care. Unemployment is not towering; it is even low, also European. Integration is also good, even if you compare it internationally: we don't have banlieues, where there are huge tribal battles. At the same time, there is a great deal of concern, because the dividing lines that exist are increasing. It is not that 20 years ago it was all much worse than it is now, for example when you look at education levels and opportunities, or when you look at what neighbourhood you are born and opportunities, or when you look at what origins you are and opportunities, both in terms of education and income and living conditions. That's a big concern. That's actually from that Monitor Brede Prosperity, for example, when you look at income differences. Capital differences are then of course also and they are much larger in the Netherlands. Mrs Leijten also drew attention to this. Look at living, too. That's a really underexposed theme in the Chamber. Look at the differences between buyers and tenants, but also at the quality of homes and the health associated with them. The health differences in the Netherlands are enormous. Of course, this also depends on the living and living climate. Finally, I call sustainability. This is a bit of a back burner, even in Europe. You can hardly say that the Netherlands is still doing quite well, because we do not. We don't have a sustainable country at all. Sustainable energy generation is worthless. That account will have to be distributed later and, if we are not careful, it will end up with lower incomes. These are three major concerns that I would like to hear from the cabinet: how do they view them and what are they going to do about them? I'm kind of criticized for that. I was just talking about living. I really find: the cabinet stands by and looks at it, while investors take over the cities, and the tenants can barely pay their rent and are put at a disadvantage in relation to buyers. "Of course everyone is getting better," the cabinet then says "Well, it's quite an achievement to let such great economic tide tenants go backwards on it, but buyers far more than tenants, while they don't have the biggest problems at the moment. This does not apply to starters, because there I have another... So that requires a serious reaction. That's the bottom line. And not a procedural response of 'interestingly mapped'......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. What is going well is the financial and economic situation in the country. There is, of course, still unemployment, but fortunately it has declined considerably. More and more people are getting jobs. Public finances are much better than anticipated. So that starting point can also be taken into account in the consideration of determining the major problems of our time. It is then said that the priority is to improve the investment environment, i.e. to reduce foreign investors and Vpb. At the same time, savings are being made on the rent payment, while tenants have such a big payment problem. Teachers are not given the appreciation they deserve. In terms of climate, there are good ambitions, but we still have to see that. Well, all that doesn't relate to each other. It is, of course, a debate of responsibility, but it is also intended that, when we look at the state of the country, some logical conclusions and policy conclusions will be drawn from it. I'll ask the cabinet which ones they are. That's where I see a lot of tension on the line. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second point: three issues that raise additional questions for the PvdA Group. First of all, that's the gas in Groningen. I am sure that does not surprise the cabinet, because I have been calling for attention to be given to this for some time now. I would particularly like to have an insight into the financial relations and liability relationships in the so-called gas building in the Netherlands. That is very important. Minister Wiebes has informed newspapers and the media: we are leaving EUR 50 billion of gas in the ground. He didn't let the Chamber know that, by the way. There is no chamber piece left, but in the NRC and in the Dagblad van het Noorden this was said in an interview. I'd like to know whose money that belongs to. Did the Empire have any claim to that? Or was it Shell, Exxon and NAM? No doubt that's shared. Then how is the proceeds distributed? How will it be with the new appointments with the NAM and Shell? I understand that these appointments are going on, but I want to know the basic starting point: what if those appointments weren't made? This also applies to the liability for the loss of value of the houses in Groningen and the liability for the damage. We do not yet have the Spring Note, but I hear rumours that it also applies to the reinforcement operation which would supposedly be placed outside the framework. But so far, the NAM is simply responsible for this and the government has nothing to do with it, so the government frameworks have nothing to do with it. What's that all about? I'd like to know, because it's about big money in many years. It's all technical and complicated, but it does matter if the taxpayer or Shell and Exxon ultimately take the fall. The second point has already been raised. That's the dividend tax. The proceeds aren't so bad. It's $400 million. You could say, "That's good." But where did the $400 million come from? Is it structural or occasional? Or is it divided differently? What's the cause of that? Does it also mean, I hope, that it does not mean that additional money will have to be found elsewhere in order to abolish the dividend tax? It stands for 1.4 billion in the budget, and the minister now has to cough up 1.8 billion in the media saying it was 1.6 billion, but the pieces say it is 1.8 billion. Surely it is not true that SMEs or other taxpayers will have to pay to finance that abolition? What's the deal with that, exactly? Mr President, the third point. I think living is important; you can see that. There's a cut on the rent in the government agreement. For the connoisseurs, it is a question of deleting the clause. That's a really bad idea. The tenants, who are already having a hard time getting caught. At the same time, there is a windfall in this budget in terms of the rent payment, which is almost the same. In fact, it's a little bigger. It's 4 million more. What's easier and wiser than using them to get rid of that austerity? Is the cabinet prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. I come to the third and final topic in my speech. It's about the execution. Even in a night watchman's state, which the VVD doesn't want to go far enough, you would need Defense, Justice and Security and tax collection. It is precisely these core departments that have the greatest implementation, and that is where the problems of simply carrying out the practical work are greatest. What I noticed when I was going through the documents is that not only the problems there are the most serious ones, but also the under-spending of the extra resources to do something about them, so not spending the money, as is most common. That is when extra money is allocated every year. We are talking about hundreds of millions for the Tax Office, up to 2 billion for Justice and Security and for Defence. So these problems have been known for years. Cabinet and Chamber say we need to invest extra to do something about it. But these investments are not being made. Those problems get bigger every year. At least they are not getting smaller in the Tax Administration and some departments are not getting any better either. What about the affair? We can say again: we need more money. As far as the Tax Administration is concerned, I think that there should be more money, because it is not doing well; the controls are lagging behind. But if the cabinet doesn't spend that money, then the problems won't be solved either. That's what we talked about last year. So how is that possible? The cabinet indicates year by year: we have to do something about this and we also make extra money available. This is even done in economically difficult times. But the Cabinet doesn't even manage to make investments, which is the least you can do about it. Mr. Chairman. The second issue on implementation is ICT. I agree with the questions raised by previous speakers. Is the knowledge in order? Are there enough people? Isn't the external hire too high? Is continuity even guaranteed? I would like to add one more question: how does the government itself deal with the data it has? This is not so much a question of security as a question of working with algorithms, mapping people's behaviour and then taking action on them. NRC makes a very interesting series of how municipalities and governments deal with this. What are the government's considerations in this respect? Of course, you can take advantage of it, for example, at the IRS. I'm very much in favour of you reporting it there or something and doing it in patterns over the year. Then you see it when people cheat on the place. Then the lieutenant can go right over there and check it out, 'cause the place is getting bottled up. If you map people's behavior via Facebook and then look at it, it goes quite far. So I'm curious to see what the cabinet's like on the other side. What are the pros and cons of that and how far should the government go? Privacy is also a great asset. Finally, on implementation. Not only the government is stuck in the complex execution; see Tax Administration and the surcharges. Moreover, Parliament is partly responsible for this. So the cabinet isn't the only one guilty. That is not the point I want to make, but the cabinet must do something about it. But also the people are trapped in it. You'll only have a very low income, live in some community and have to apply for all kinds of forgiveness. Maybe you have another kid going to day care. You'll have to fill out all kinds of forms, like the rent application, but let's say you're making a mistake. Then you get a lot of fine, that's really not normal. Suppose you're looking for a job, you're doing your best, but you can't do it, either you're still providing care, or you're doing the right thing, it's all punishment and penance and mistrust. Read the Ombudsman's reports. It doesn't even matter if you're looking at the UWV, the Tax Office or any other executive agency, like the COA. It would be very good if the government stood next to the people, also in execution, rather than opposite. It would be very good if the government had a little faith instead of relying on mistrust. Is the cabinet willing to do that? That brings me to the starting point of my speech, namely the possibility of making life a living for everyone. Of course, that depends on people themselves, but we must help to make this possible as a government. Implementation helps, through trust in people, it also helps when you look at where the needs are most socially. They now lie in inequality, living and the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer stole my heart on the last point, namely in the area of debt and the accumulation of fines on fines for people who have misfiled a form or make a mistake in that huge administrative mess that affects people. In this coalition agreement, we agreed that we want to maximize the fines, that people can no longer fall into enormous difficulties because of a mistake. Last night at 11.30 p.m., the letter on a broad approach to debt from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs appeared. May I ask Mr Nijboer if we can find the PvdA by our side on this point for the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u140	In fact, Mrs Schouten, I believe in the coalition agreement, has had a certain hand in it. During the past period, when we were in the cabinet, she has also supported a number of initiatives. We have fought this battle together, and we will continue to fight it together. Mr Bruins should not now ask me to embrace a letter dated 11.30 p.m. last night, which I do not know, but I think we understand each other well. This has the full support of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u141	That's very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u142	I thought it was a very nice speech from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u144	But I do miss something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u145	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u146	2017: Everyone is improving. A Social Democratic Minister for Finance, but it didn't work. How does the PvdA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mrs Leijten has quite a point to make. Purchasing power last year was extremely disappointing. It is a concern that I expressed in financial considerations years ago. At that time, I also argued that wages should be raised. That didn't happen, but it should have. However, I have also looked at the distribution. It is mainly due to inflation, which is higher than expected. Economic growth was stronger, inflation increased, everyone is aware of that. So I looked at the distribution. If you look at the limited increase in purchasing power that is there on average and where it ends up, then you can see that the people with the lowest incomes and benefit recipients are relatively well off, even though it is not much of a problem compared to the highest incomes and have improved most. That is what we are in politics for. Mrs Leijten has often asked me about this, but that has been achieved. But you can't do everything. Inflation is predicted as well as possible but you can't see it all in advance. But that the lowest incomes have not paid the price, I think a good outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u148	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u149	In fact, it is very sad that you see that after the crisis, the distribution of wealth is even more crooked and the distribution of income is even shaver, not only in our country but also in the world. The crisis has not really been used to divide prosperity, but to allow prosperity to go to a smaller group of people. And a larger group fights for the rest. That's kind of worrying. Now it is said that we have all fallen into purchasing power, but those with the least. That doesn't really soften it, because something else was promised. But there was one thing that happened to the budget in 2017, namely that the healthcare premium was proposed far too low in the budget; so the government said, and the Minister of Health was called upon to do so several times. How do you look back at the fact that billions have been magical there to create the picture that there were low costs of care, whereas in reality and in realization this has destroyed purchasing power growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u150	The care premium plays an important role; Mrs Leijten is right about that. I think it would be much more helpful, including for the income of people with care funding, if their own risk were to be eliminated, or if steps were to be taken. We worked in this together with Mrs Leijten and Mrs Marijnissen when I was allowed to be a time spokesperson. It would have helped a lot more if that had been done. That should have been done and it should have been done as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u151	I thank Mr Nijboer for his presentation. A big compliment for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u152	He always does that without paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u153	Exactly, but I notice it again today, and I want to say that. Last night, during the debate on the interest rate, Gijs van Dijk, Mr Nijboer, said that he did not support the 50PLUS proposal to do something about the interest rate. But what surprises me is that he added something to it, including to defend his position. He said that if, in two years' time, those discounts for millions of people, young and old, are needed because of the rules we have, the financial review framework will definitely still be able to intervene at that time. He is, of course, referring in particular to the extension of recovery periods. Why not put the key of 50PLUS in the door, and in two years the PvdA key in the door? What's the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u154	I have not seen the debate, but I think I can answer the question anyway. I think it is necessary to review the pension system and to create a fair system that provides more security for people. After all, it is now very uncertain whether there is any indexing. But that must be done in a fair manner. You shouldn't say, "Well, we're turning everything out now." After that, it will be empty and the young people who do pay pension contributions will no longer have a pension. We have put forward proposals for this. In fact, as a group, we have discussed this extensively, also in relation to the AOW rise, and that is something you have been able to read. And yes, that's different from the promise: yes, we're all going to raise pensions now, and we just need to see what's coming out for the young people. That's kind of what 50PLUS does, and we don't support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u155	We do not want pensions to be increased. So what you're suggesting here, I'm rejecting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u156	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u157	We simply want to ensure that the pensions of young people and the elderly, of 10 million people, are not reduced. On that point of view of the Labour Party hangs the shadow of Asscher and Klijnsma, who simply wanted those discounts. My question is whether Asscher in his current position is still so strict in the doctrine that he says: we simply need to cut down, at least, the 50PLUS proposal that we do not support. And he says, "When the need comes, do we remember a trick?" Something they blame us for, which is wrong, they're gonna do themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u158	I am hearing a little bit about the pension section in our election programme, but it is very clear. We want more security for the elderly. So it shouldn't be that if they get their pension, they can get cut back and I don't know what else. But there is a need for that, because then you have to do something about what you do about commitments and inlays, and what you save about life. Investment policy is also linked to this. 50PLUS makes promises to the elderly; that also depends a bit on your party leader Henk Krol. 50PLUS promises old people golden mountains but doesn't finance that. We did. But I very much agree with you that we need to get rid of the uncertainty and the reductions that have been made in the past. But that must be done in a new system where you also ask for fair premiums for everyone. That's part of the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u160	I would like to discuss my position with Mr Nijboer once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I always like to debate with Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u162	No, no, there will be plenty of opportunities for debate on this issue. I call Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u163	There are few countries in the world where public spending is as transparent and accurately accounted for as in the Netherlands. And accountability improves year after year. That is why I would like to thank the Minister for Finance and his staff for the timely presentation of the annual reports and the General Court for his thorough audit. Yet..., the rest of my contribution is a "but," I say to the Minister of Finance. However, it remains difficult to measure exactly the impact of the use of resources for many of the goals. That is because we do not have a parallel universe at our disposal, in which we can see what would have happened if we had not stopped 1.9 billion in tax money in culture, such as museums and theatres. Or in which we see what would have happened to the Netherlands if we hadn't spent 2.3 billion on the personal budget. We don't have that kind of parallel universe. That makes it difficult to know what the results of the policy are. It is also still an exception that ministries clearly define in advance when a policy measure may be considered successful. If it turns out that a check-out result has been achieved, it is again unclear which part of the success is the result of the measure. It is therefore a good thing that the General Court of Auditors is explicitly considering the policy results this year. A striking topic here is the aforementioned National Cooperation Programme Air Quality. In his contribution, Mr Van der Linde mentioned the 400 million which led to a 2% reduction in particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. According to the General Court, the same could have been achieved with less money. I do not know if the Minister of Finance has a reaction on this particular point....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 'Cause what's the Cabinet gonna do with this? This question also applies, of course, to many other policies under consideration, such as reintegration. In the annual report of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Minister concerned does not establish a relationship between expenditure on reintegration and the results of the reintegration budget. What does the Minister of Finance think of this? In addition to being difficult to demonstrate the effectiveness of policies, the General Court warns against the unintended consequence of sequestered accountability. Each minister does his own thing separately. But are we all in the government doing the right thing? Mr Sneller already asked: do we do the good things and do those things right? It is not for nothing that the Court of Auditors makes a well illustrated plea for integrated accountability. What is the Minister's response to this? Mr. Chairman. Our society faces a number of major challenges. An energy transition linked to material scarcity, which is hampered by scarcity of clean, fresh water and which competes with food supplies. A housing market, which is no longer tailored to our demographics and which is inaccessible to the generation of flexible contracts. A pension system that is unsustainable without proper reforms. We were just talking about it. It puts pressure on solidarity between generations. A financial system that runs on debt, where between us and the next crash is no more than the realization and recognition that we will never be able to pay off those debts. And we have a country where a part of the population has a feeling of not being part of it and not being able to come along with it. A country in which a part struggles with cultural identity and another part that does not even value that cultural identity. We will not be able to tackle these challenges if each ministry continues to do its thing separately. That is why it is good that the CBS has come this year with the Monitor Brede Welvaart. It is an integral way of seeing how we really are. Not just here and now, but also there and later. Because if there's anything shiny in the accounts, it's the pictures with all those financial and economic macro-indicators. The government balance of 2017 was much better than foreseen in the Millions Note, as tax revenues increased even faster than expenditure. Public debt fell both relative and absolute, and economic growth reached a percentage that we thought in the time of the crisis we would never achieve again. Employment rose, unemployment fell. Only static purchasing power development remained significantly behind, not least for households dependent on one income. On the other hand, employment has grown significantly, which has considerably improved the dynamic purchasing power trend. With regard to purchasing power development, which was not bad in 2015 and 2016, the figures and indicators are beautiful, but also very one-dimensional. Reality has so many more dimensions. Fortunately, these flat figures get more depth and relief by the Monitor Brede Prosperity. What is striking and unsurprising is that the broad prosperity in our country is relatively high, although we are still not sufficiently successful in sharing the benefits well. It is difficult enough to do that with the disadvantages of all this consumption and prosperity growth. This applies in particular to the environment, climate and non-renewable raw materials. In practice, we are all too happy to share them with our grandchildren, with future generations and with poorer regions in the world. Or, as economist Hans Stegeman firmly said: "The Netherlands is a rich and happy, but antisocial country." In this respect, it should be noted that the monitor still writes relatively positively about consumption growth. There is also ample attention to negative-development indicators: for overweight or lack of good leisure time, fewer and fewer natural areas here and, for example, an increasing carbon footprint, with consequences for wider prosperity elsewhere. Of course, we can all see that and get this straight, as happened in the Monitor Brede Prosperity. That is very valuable, but in this house, of course, the question is what we are going to do with it. I have already mentioned the five major challenges we need to work on. In the coalition agreement, to a greater or lesser extent, efforts have been made to do this. Consumption is getting more expensive. Pollution is being priced more and more fairly and the energy transition will hopefully receive a real sustainable boost during this cabinet period. So don't bet heavily on biomass, I say aside to this cabinet. We have attention and money for dignified ageing, for education, for those who are lagging behind, and so on. At the same time, we know that we are not yet there with all these efforts. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister and a reflection on the development of broad prosperity in the broad sense. Mr. Chairman. I have a final, specific question about the energy transition, namely the renewable energy budget reserve. This is an annual phenomenon. There is still a large difference between revenue and expenditure, which has meant that this budget reserve has been growing for years in succession. This budget reserve is powered by the storage on the energy account and is therefore directly filled by citizens and businesses. This storage, the ODE, will increase further in the coming years. The cabinet letter states that this unused production can still be realized in later years and can at that time lead to the payment of subsidies. But how does this notion of delay relate to the development that more and more subsidies are being invested in renewable energy? Mr Van der Linde already referred to the unsubsidised tenders for wind at sea. Through the ODE money has been raised for years without a clear plan for spending. How does the Minister assess this development? How does the Minister ensure that this now large pot of money ends up in genuinely innovative developments in renewable energy? Is the Minister prepared, in consultation with his colleague for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, to draw up a plan for the use of this growing pot of money, for which we do not really have a good destination anymore, because renewable energy is increasingly free of subsidies? So much for my first contribution. I look forward to the reaction of the cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u164	Thank you. Mr Snels has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u165	Thank you, Mr President. This time again I am happy with the beautiful words about the Monitor Brede Welvaart. The Monitor Brede Prosperity ultimately comes from the report The learning government of the WRR. Mr Pechtold and Mr Van Ojik, and later the Grashoff Committee, have tabled a motion on this. The crucial question here is whether the government can learn from policies it has created. That is why we have this debate of accountability. I have asked a lot of questions about how we are going to translate objectives into budgets when we see that policies are going in the wrong direction. But how do we deal with government agreements in Dutch politics? Could it be that, if we learn lessons from the Monitor Brede Prosperity about the goals we want to achieve, whether it is about culture, climate, education or health, it will also be easier to adjust the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u166	It's a pretty general question. Nice to put it to the Christian Union. I've been in this place a lot, and I always say that we stand for our signature under the coalition agreement. At the same time, I note that agreements are always concluded with a number of parties. You're talking to each other all the time. The agreements currently in force apply to the Christian Union, because we are a party that keeps its word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u167	I wonder how the cabinet looks at this. Is it not strange, in view of the operation that we are now carrying out with all these different pieces of puzzlery in order to ultimately ensure that the citizen gets more money for his tax money, that we could not change the government agreement, which actually has hardly any objectives, but above all measures that we do not know what the effects are on a very special example, because we are not achieving objectives? At the very least, that should mean something to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u168	As a negotiating team of the Christian Union, we took our ideals to the negotiating table every day last summer. Mr Rutte knows that we have fought like a true Gideon gang. We have been able to bring many of our ideals closer to this coalition agreement, sometimes a long way and sometimes a little bit. We must also note that other plans simply could not be implemented. By implementing this coalition agreement, we are working for a future for our children, for better education, for which 1.9 billion is invested, and for a wider family wallet. We are working on dignified ageing and more appreciation for volunteering. Many of the ideals of the Christian Union are reflected in the coalition agreement. If, in the course of the three years that hopefully remain, we see opportunities to achieve even more of the ideals of the Christian Union, then we will fight for them just as we did last summer, when we were working on them every day from early in the morning to late in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u169	One last question. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u170	I realize that this was quite a nasty question, because I do not want to deny the Christian Union even more, especially not at all, the right to find its signature valuable under the coalition agreement. However, Mr Bruins has to acknowledge that what we are doing today, with everything we are trying to do to improve public policy, continues to be a bit of agitated by the Dutch tradition of concluding government agreements that are so close that thinking is actually stopped. I'd appreciate that recognition anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u171	I would like to link this very specifically to a point where GroenLinks is very interested, namely the climate. This coalition agreement takes the first small steps towards increasing the burden on polluting consumption and the first steps towards achieving the Paris climate goals. It is clear, however, that the graph needs to be adjusted more strongly, that more stringent measures are needed and that we will have to go more farther. In this respect, the Christian Union should have gone further. However, I think it is very special that we should be part of a government that is taking the first steps towards sustainable society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u172	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan, who speaks on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins put it very well. He says that the cabinet is taking "the first small steps" towards achieving the Paris climate goals. That's actually very sad. I will certainly come back to that. Thanks to the CBS. The people of the CBS have just left. Today I have the feeling that I am speaking on behalf of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, the Planning Office for the Environment, the Environment and Infrastructure Council, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and CE Delft, not because they have given me explicit authorisation, but because they have no right to speak here and their opinions have not been translated into action by the Cabinet in recent years. I am referring to the numerous reports calling for the reduction of livestock and the promotion of the externalities of animal products associated with their production. By systematically ignoring these pleas, the cabinet will have to answer in more than a year's time. After the publication of the broad prosperity monitor with data for the past eight years, about the here and now, but also about later and elsewhere, the staggering hazing of D66 and the Christian Union has been substantiated with even more facts over the past year. Let me quote from the coalition agreement: 'Where views are dominated by belief, belief, belief, conscience and ideals, it cannot be required to renounce them'. And yet that is exactly what the Christian Union and D66 have done in the greatest crises that threaten our future, under the leadership of the CDA and VVD engine block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u174	I find it almost entrapment: that the Christian Union would have let go of its ideals. Heaven saved me, just to say it with some expression of faith. No, we certainly haven't let go of our ideals. It is good that the Animal Party takes its role in this Chamber, but I would like to hear from Mr Van Raan how he is going to build a majority coalition when he tries to get into the government in the next period and try to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u175	We're a little strayed from the subject, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u176	Let me first see if my speaking time continues during this invitation to indicate how we intend to decorate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u177	No, we're not. We're keeping up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u178	That's it. We have 550 measures for this. I invite Mr Bruins to take a closer look at them. Mr Bruins called it entrapment. Perhaps that is the case, but when he mentions the result of the coalition agreement itself as the first small steps towards a sustainable society, towards the Paris agreement, when, if you look at the electoral standards and also the moral values of the Christian Union, what is wrong with it is summarised in one sentence? That is exactly the example of the hazing of the Christian Union, isn't it? Anyway, maybe I'm wrong. I particularly invite the Christian Union to vote with us if we submit plans for the declaration of livestock, if we submit plans for, for example, deposit money on plastic bottles or if we call for an end to the growth of aviation. The Christian Union can then prove that Mr Van Raan is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u179	Mr. Bruins?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr. Van Raan has had enough time. I'm gonna leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u181	Proceed, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u182	I think we're all gonna regret it, but I'm gonna keep going. The fact that we now have the Monitor Brede Prosperity is awesome. Last year, in the same debate, we quoted the scientific institutes I mentioned. They argued for a radical change of direction on exactly that dossier, on which the successive Cabinets did not give a millimetre due to the importance of the here-and-now economy of these Cabinets. This year we are back here with that scientific support, but now with the Monitor Brede Prosperity which brings the urgency to change course. That is why I feel that I am indeed speaking on behalf of those institutions. Mr. Chairman. Another question: what would we have done if we had already had the broad concept of prosperity, say in 1850? We can speculate on that, but we can also do a study on it. And that's exactly what happened. In addition to the Monitor Brede Welvaart, there is also the book The Vulnerable Prosperity of the Netherlands, 1850-2050. That's a fantastic intersection of the century of my father, of Geert Mak, and Capital in the 21st century, of Piketty. The book describes the fragile prosperity and broad prosperity concept for 1850, 1910, 1970 and 2015 based on the data of those times. We can learn a lot from that. For example, it is fascinating to see how we have successfully organised an energy transition three times. At the same time, it is fascinating to read that transitions are always stopped for as long as possible by warriors against renewal, fanciers of the status quo, and that they always go much faster when there are fiscal measures and compelling legislation, available alternatives and a group of forerunners who drag society along. Transitions, also necessary, are thus blocked by vested interests who lobby intensively. Mr. Chairman. A here-and-now economy that only thrives well by wallowing the negative effects used later and elsewhere as doping. We're the dirtiest little boy in the class under the self-appointed greenest cabinet ever. "Now Europe's fifth economy!" Welcomes the Prime Minister. That's the athlete who's doing doping. That is stupid and irresponsible of both the athlete and the applauder. You can do better than that. The idea that the market is always the best distribution mechanism turns out to be wrong over and over again or at most for a short time for a small group. We now have a welfare state for multinationals to thank. A strong market does not involve a regressing government, but a strong government. The idea that economic growth is the solution seems to be wrong. After all, this can only be maintained by doping. Growth is not the solution, it is the problem. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that we have looked at the accountability reports through the glasses of the broad concept of prosperity, so for the here and now and later and elsewhere. Let's see what they have to say in the light of the destructive activities, such as intensive livestock farming. I'll take a look at the CDA. Mr. Chairman. For the here and now of intensive agriculture, the picture is disturbing. For example, Trouw writes: "The Monitor Brede Welvaart, according to the CBS, shows that there is a 'big gap' between the way the Netherlands now produces food and other goods and 'a sustainable level of production that does not harm the environment too much'." Water quality, biodiversity and nature protection are all at decline or standstill. Two more examples, Mr President. The NVWA didn't turn out to be a watchdog. It turned out to be a firefighter. The Court of Auditors shows on page 83 a table that deals with consumer confidence in food on a scale of 1 to 5. In 2013 it was a 3.2 and in 2015 a 3.2. In 2017, there is no measurement. Why not? That's because of the fipronil incident. Three guesses what's gonna come out of that reading. Mr. Chairman. Another example is natural links which have been promised but which are not possible because of agricultural interests up to Germany. I'd like a response. That's it here and now for intensive farming. Then for later. For later on, the picture of intensive agriculture is also very worrying. For biodiversity, nitrogen surpluses, protected natural areas and CO emissions, the meters are in red. Two additional examples. Here, the large bee mortality caused by the use of agricultural poison is a major threat to the future. But there is also the doom of the Chinese pig flat, apparently the inspiring example of Minister Schouten. How does the government see that in the Netherlands in five years' time? Nine-storey flats! I'd like a response. Here and now for intensive agriculture: very bad. Later: very bad. I come to elsewhere for intensive farming. That image too is very disturbing. The carbon footprint, the import of non-fossil minerals, the import of biomass: all deep in red. But also the other way around: the blind export drive, widely acclaimed by all kinds of ministers at the expense of animal suffering and environmental damage abroad. How many globes does this cabinet actually think we have? Mr. Chairman. I see that I shoot through time and therefore skip some examples. I would like to mention it here and now for aviation. The limit has been reached because of climate, safety and the living environment for humans and animals. While for later on, it is interesting to note that we are already aware that we cannot give what is left of the CO budget to both agriculture and aviation. How's the Prime Minister gonna fix that? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. It is clear that the fixation of the cabinet on the here-and-now economy is no longer sufficient. Does the cabinet endorse the conditions for transitions from the book The vulnerable prosperity, in particular the harmful and delaying role played by obstacles? The pattern is always the same, and so is the success formula. Does the Cabinet endorse that? I'd like a clear response. If history makes it clear how important legislation and taxation are for transitions, how will these systems be adapted to the broad concept of prosperity? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It was said that the Monitor Brede Prosperity is not ready yet. That's what the CBS itself says. That's right; compliments for that insight. We have already mentioned a number of improvements, but one improvement I would like to mention and draw attention to. The Monitor Brede Welvaart is again based on human focus, while we live together with many species. Can animal welfare and the wide welfare for animals also be given a place? What does the Prime Minister think about that? We can no longer allow wide-ranging prosperity of later and elsewhere to be hollowed out by taking an advance on the future, not with fossil fuels, not with the rainforest cap, not with the bee's extinction, not with the subsidy of aviation and not with the slowing down of climate policy. In 2007, Secretary of State Pieter van Geel said that meat is the most environmentally damaging part of our food package. Now, eleven years later, he doesn't talk about it at the climate table for food in all languages. When will this elephant finally be appointed and recognized in the Chamber? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u183	I am, of course, referring to comments such as 'economic growth is the problem'. In the run-up to this debate, I took up the World Happiness Report. In the top ten of the happiest countries, I see all those countries with enormous prosperity. In fact, if I compare the top ten with the bottom ten in terms of happiness, that saves a factor of 30 in the national product. How can Mr. Van Raan rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u184	Firstly, I strongly recommend that Mr Van der Linde take a look at how much we take from the countries at the bottom to guarantee our prosperity here and now. to influence the future prosperity of those countries. That's one. And again, I don't know if it makes much sense to look back at those scary indicators right now. The beauty of the wide-ranging welfare monitor is that we turn a page and that monitor clearly shows that instead of an 'here and now' economy, Mr Van der Linde is part of it, we must take 'there and elsewhere'. Then the signals just don't look good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u185	So we conclude that material prosperity leads to a great deal of life's happiness, but that is less relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u186	Again, in that sense, we may be talking on two planets. The VVD sets itself up as the child who now wants one candy and eats it and has no eye for it that we may have to save something for later. That's very persistent at the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u187	I thought this was a bit of an anticlimax. I would have expected Mr Van Raan to come forward with a concrete proposal for an indicator to include this, but that proposal did not come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u188	That's what we did. I have made two proposals; let me call it "suggestions." We're saying the broad-wealth monitor is extremely human-focused. So we could see how we can extend it to other species. That's the first suggestion. The second, very concrete suggestion is to somehow give a place to animal welfare. The indicators for this are known: can an animal exercise natural behaviour, is it hindered in its freedom and in the exercise of natural behaviour? That seems to me to be two good suggestions. I assume D66 will support it, but I am also curious to see what the government thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u189	These are mostly questions. So I would also like to look at the more concrete suggestions. Then we can really make up our minds about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u190	I think that's a good promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u191	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen. After Mr Van Rooijen, I'm going to suspend. That's what I'm saying for those who really want to know what it looks like. Really, Mr. Azarkan. I hear someone shouting "discrimination." Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr President, you think I'm gonna last a little longer. I think you're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u193	There you go, Mr. Azarkan. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u194	Mr. Chairman. The treasury is in good shape and government spending is almost 100% legitimate. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for the audit. I want to start with the positive. That was already there, but we can be equally happy with that internationally. However, as far as the effectiveness of several billions of public expenditure is concerned, the Court of Auditors firmly considers that we simply do not know. Purchasing power for almost the whole of the Netherlands is a full percent lower than expected, not least in the top economic year 2017. We are not satisfied with static force majeure, with the explanation that inflation was higher, because that same higher inflation has also driven up the state's revenue. Can the Minister quantify that? What proportion of the 10 billion higher government revenue was the result of higher than expected inflation? Why aren't AOW, benefits and civil servants' salaries further indexed with that money? Minister Hoekstra said in his speech last week that public debt has not yet reached its pre-crisis level. He charged us that the State already has to spend 3.2 billion interest on an annual basis less. I was just a little disappointed that he made it appear as if this was only the result of the dropped sovereign debt ratio. I assume that in the 3.2 billion, which the Minister mentioned, the effect of the draconian ECB policy is also included, the much lower interest rate. Pensioners and savers bled for that windfall. So we'd like him to name that as well and do something about it, for example, increase the AOW benefit. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the IRS. The main point of my speech is, of course, the depravable state of our Tax Service. This state service has lost its reputation once and has been held together with tape and pins for almost ten years now. I'm overreacting, but not that much. MPs have been complaining about it for more than ten years, but it's going from bad to worse. If it costs money, it costs money to fix it. If we have to abstain for a few years from amending tax laws and regulations, then we should do so, even if it upsets almost everyone in this Chamber. But please, do something: government, rule! Come, see and overcome this slowly escalating blasphemy for the Tax Office. I am not saying that it is simple, on the contrary, but this has been yet another year when the Court of Auditors reveals the same vulnerabilities. Non-competitive employment services for ICTs, for example. Members of parliament have asked questions about it before and senior officials complain about lack of flexibility. Meanwhile, the shortage of ICT personnel continues. Why don't we scale them much higher? If ICTs have to earn more than managers and directors at this time, then so be it. How many big shots does the government leave behind because they're stuck with dated functional layouts? My group is not amused that the Court of Auditors is now taking note of this criticism. In any case, we must conclude that successive Cabinets have consistently failed to manage ICT problems in the government. The General Court talks about persistent problems in ICT and information security at nine ministries and at the Lower House. Honestly, it's not about one big national project that failed. It is now a multifaceted monster, but that multifaceted monster really needs to be caught by the horns. Eric Wiebes was the man we thought was: he's so good at his job and in his role, that's going to be all right with the Tax Office. But it wasn't meant to be. The former Secretary of State left the service in a depravable state. I'm sorry, but I can't make it anymore. The carefully built credit from his position as alderman in Amsterdam will now not help him much in his new role. We will also assess the current Minister Wiebes in the light of his failure at the Tax Office. Mr. Chairman. The Court of Auditors, on the basis of increased clarity about the problems, is, strangely enough, already reaching a milder judgment in 2017. At the same time, the Court also indicates that it is going to take much longer to fix the whole process, because the problems in finance have become clearer and there are increasing risks to the continuity of primary processes. It's been said before. So at the IRS we are waiting for a dragon killer or perhaps several. Focus is essential here. What does the Minister think of the idea of a separate Secretary of State or Minister for the Tax Administration? This idea is well justified when we consider that there are already two ministers on Justice and Security, as well as on Health, and there are a total of three ministers per department. Perhaps it needs to be extended even further. For example, a special minister for the major ICT issues. Can the Minister indicate whether there are plans for an integrated approach with focus and central direction in this area? My group is longing for a man or woman with vision who, together with the most handsome heads of the Netherlands, can pull this cart out of the mud, perhaps even a partyless figure. I am not saying all this out of a lack of confidence in the current Secretary of State. Let me get this straight. I say this from the heartfelt concern that this Secretary of State can also become a prisoner of the same trials and the same machinery. Something must be done that brings new momentum, which means that we, as a Chamber, dare again to trust that the vicious circle at the Tax Office is really going to be broken. Mr. Chairman. Purchasing power fell very badly in 2017. Managing expectations does Rutte very well. In 2016 we will be made delicious with the prospect of income growth in 2017, but now it has been confirmed that the expectation is not being met and we are again being shown an increase in income, for 2019. That's a good move. Of course, the cabinet can't do anything about 2017 anymore today, but a little bit more for this or next year is justified. For this year we will come back to the Spring Paper, not only to make the purchasing power forecast come true for a change, but also because, as far as my group is concerned, the share of labour income in our economy is crying for an increase in wages. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Italy. The tricky thing about this time is that all our domestic political and financial traditions, such as Accountability Day, are always overshadowed by dominoes that are falling apart elsewhere in the Union. A new government in a euro area Member State presents a government agreement and, hoppa!, There's another existential threat coming at us. In the past, we didn't care if they were to introduce a basic income in Italy and lower the retirement age. "They'll run into themselves," we thought. Unfortunately, however, it is no longer working in the current euro area. They're gonna run into us before they actually run into themselves. And that is no longer just against the sore feet of Eurosceptics or the more populist political flanks. The President of France can also talk about it. His plans for European risk sharing are now referred to as death in the NRC. Martin Wolf says in today's Financial Times that Italy's new rules can shake the euro. Yesterday, when it appeared to me that almost the entire Chamber did not need a debate with the Minister, but it was remarkable that Minister Hoekstra shortly before, I had not escaped the fact that I had had an extensive debate with a journalist from RTLZ and gave a warning to Italy and that the French Minister for Finance, Le Maire, had already taken the view last Friday that Italy had to abide by the rules. Last week, Mr Omtzigt said that the 250 billion in unilateral debt relief for Italy through the ECB could lead to a major conflict over the euro. However, he felt that we in our Chamber should not talk about the Italian agreement before the Italians do so themselves. But I think it will be very beneficial for the whole process if the Italians know what we all think about this. In fact, the fuss has already had an effect on parts. Mr President, I will conclude. Of course, we are not talking about the plans of a democratically elected government in Italy or elsewhere. The only thing we can do, no, is to ensure that each Member State is primarily able to sit on the blisters of its own choice. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to achieve this within the euro area. After all, Italy, the third economy in the EU, is too big to fail and can never be saved by the EU. Mr. Chairman. We are not Italy, rather the mirror image. The windfalls for the treasury are blowing us away, but the windfalls for pensioners, flex workers, the minima, the house seekers, the disabled, the welfare recipients and, in fact, for all employees remain virtually non-existent. Rutte III cannot continue to do so, certainly not with a 3% real growth in the economy and a 10 billion windfall. Mr. Chairman. I have a pressing question for the Minister, but he has heard it from me before. There is a proposal to abolish the dividend tax. I would like to know from the Minister whether he would like to make a clear commitment here that there will be a separate draft law on the abolition of dividend taxation, so that it will not be wrapped up in the whole of the Tax Plan or linked to other proposals that my group might wish to support, but not the opposition at all, for example. That would put the House of Representatives and otherwise the First Chamber before an impossible dilemma, given the fact that this Minister has tabled a motion with me in the First Chamber not to link things together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-23-tweedekamer-3.u196	I suggest we suspend until 2:15 p.m. We will then begin with the arrangement of work and then proceed with the first term of office.
