ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, as well as the people in the public gallery and the MPs. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are not talking today about the enlargement of the European Union, but we are still on the agenda for enlargement of the European Union. This is about reading the agenda we are discussing for tomorrow's summit. There is a cozy informal dinner, which will undoubtedly go over Trump's antics with the Iran deal, and probably the unacceptable violence towards the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip of the Israeli army is still under discussion. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister is joining his Belgian colleague, who has called the Israeli ambassador to account and condemned the excessive violence, but ultimately this European summit should end in a true statement. The European Heads of Government are to solemnly declare their cooperation with countries in the Western Balkans on the rule of law and public administration and all that is essential for economic development. The cabinet establishes a link between political stability in those countries and economic developments. That makes sense, but it should be not just about the Western Balkans, but about the whole of the Union. My first question is: why is this statement, which is to be signed, secret? Does the text also call for free press and independent journalism, which is a fundamental prerequisite for economic development? Political stability as a basic condition for economic development can also be regulated in many other ways, for example through repression or the absence of freedom of the press. How does the Prime Minister view this? Where European Member States were once examples of strong democracies with an independent rule of law, including the acquired freedom of the press and religion, we now see a reverse movement in Europe. Corruption is rampant in more Member States than we like. Even worse is that journalists who investigate corruption have to pay for it with their lives, such as in Slovakia and Malta. Lack of freedom of the press and control of power, which can therefore be corrupt, can lead to democratically elected leaders, as in Hungary, but that does not mean that the country is also a democracy, because democracy alone is not an election and a result, but also the ability to oppose, to organize yourself, to report on power. This is a rule of law that applies to everyone. We should not just talk about enlargement, we should talk about what future we want for the Union. The Prime Minister says he doesn't want too much Brussels, but he does want the "full" of the internal market. If we follow that, we should admit the six Balkan countries tomorrow, I would say. Then it doesn't matter if they're strong democracies, it doesn't matter if they're fighting corruption or not. What does the Prime Minister think about the fact that Member States are no longer meeting the Copenhagen criteria? Let me remind you of the first of the four criteria: stable institutions that respect democracy and the rule of law, respect human rights and guarantee minority rights. Poland, Hungary, Malta, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania, we all know that there is widespread corruption there, there is a crumbling of or a lack of rule of law and less and less freedom for journalists. It is no different in the candidate country Montenegro, where a investigative journalist was shot at last week, even on the day when the committee that visited it left. Instead of talking about enlargement, the European Union should discuss what we want to be. We see that the prospect of accession, as there is already for some of the six Balkan countries, has not led to an improvement in the rule of law, a reduction in corruption, and an improvement in the independent press. So we see that the resources we are currently using, both in Member States and in acceding candidate countries, are not working. I would like to know from the Prime Minister how he sees it. Is the internal market the full commitment of this Prime Minister? Then the six Balkan countries can join tomorrow. Or does he think that a step forward should be taken within the Union and that we should seriously discuss the freedom of the press, the rule of law for all, the fight against corruption and, ultimately, the strengthening of democratic values everywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. To be sure that Europe offers protection; that is what we want. Protection against terrorism, insecurity and climate change. Protection of workers. We want to be sure of equality before the law. That is the Europe we have to go to. If you want to be sure, that also means being strict when the debate on enlargement is being held with countries that do not meet the conditions. Where we celebrate 70 years of peace here, the Balkan war is still fresh in memory and tensions are palpable there. This means that the European Union must not leave the Balkans to its fate, but must be reliable, especially towards the people here and there. It means sticking to the 2003 agreements. It doesn't mean calling years random, like Juncker did. Membership should not be a political decoy or a threat, but depends on what countries themselves do. It's not an automatism. The Labour Party is very critical of the lack of reform in a number of countries that are now under discussion. I refer to corruption, authoritarian regimes, organised crime, lack of freedom of the press and an independent judiciary. It's trouble you can't put aside. We all understand the geopolitical importance of that region, but it is precisely in order not to let these countries become the plaything of Russia, Turkey or China that democratic reforms are the best guarantee. The European Union can and must help in this. This is also in our own interest, but we must dare to press harder on the democratic transformation that is needed. We should not want to keep corrupt elites above our heads under the motto 'other war', the barely hidden threat that Juncker uses, or 'other Russia'. That's the only way to catch up with Troy's horse. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, none of the six countries is ready for membership. The European Union must first put its own house in order. It is precisely in the interests of the people there that strong demands must be made on political reform. I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister, also because I am considering a motion on that point. It is important that we make a distinction and assess each country on its own merits. More specifically, the question will be raised in June as to whether negotiations can be started with Macedonia and Albania. Any EU Member State can block that. A distinction can be made with regard to the Labour Party. Macedonia has had a reform-minded government since May 2017 and is seen as a good example in the region. Jumps are being made. Civil society is involved in this process. So that's where you can show that this pays off. In Albania, on the other hand, steps are being taken to rescreen judges and prosecutors, but otherwise we see major fundamental shortcomings. The European Commission is also showing this in the progress report, precisely on the points I mentioned earlier: independent justice, organised crime and the fight against corruption. Making sure that Europe offers protection starts with the certainty that the rule of law is there for every European in Europe and that you can therefore be sure of independent and impartial judges, of respect for your fundamental rights and of equality before the law. As long as this is not secured in Member States and in the regions around us, there is a lot of work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr Asscher, Mr Verhoeven has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	I would like to thank Mr Asscher for his very clear input on a number of points. He wrote an article in the paper yesterday. I read that and thought: what would Mr Asscher say here today? 'Cause I read that article. It contained a far-reaching analysis of the past and it was rich in metaphors. Everything was thrown a bit into one pile, the different six countries were thrown a bit into one pile and then no conclusion was actually drawn. Today, Mr Asscher says here: all six countries are not ready for accession. But I don't think that's the issue either. None of the countries are on the threshold of accession. Two of the six countries are negotiating and the other four aren't even negotiating yet. So could Mr Asscher explain a little more specifically where he stands with regard to these six countries? Otherwise it seems as if it is all at the same stage and that the conclusion of the PvdA is actually: all six are not ready for accession; until next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thanks for the question. Mr Verhoeven is right: none of them are ready for accession. We know that here in this Chamber, and the European Commission knows that, but it is precisely because of Juncker's misguided choice of date that has given us that impression. That can have counterproductive consequences for the people there, because authoritarian leaders can use that as an argument. It can just discourage the desire to improve. And it is also a very wrong signal to the people here, who rightly have concerns about the enlargement of the European Union, which is already quite large and in which we really do not have all the problems in order. So that is why that is an important conclusion to draw, even if it is perhaps less exciting and surprising for the insiders. A number of more precise political statements are included. Firstly, the European Union itself will have to be better able to maintain the rule of law within the Member States, however difficult that may be. Secondly, at the very stage before a country is negotiating, or at the beginning of the negotiations, we will have to put much more pressure on these democratic reforms; I think we agree on that. You can see that that is really not an automatism, as has been said in the past. Yeah, an upcoming membership can lead to reforms, but you can see that's stalling. The third point that I have just made is that you must make a distinction between the six Balkan countries that we are talking about here. You see a number of countries that have already opened a chapter where you have to have serious concerns about how things are going there. I call Serbia Montenegro. Albania and Macedonia will be discussed shortly. I also make a distinction between these two Member States, based on the reports and the information on them. I am trying to explain to the cabinet how the Netherlands might behave in that discussion and I am, of course, very curious about the reaction of the cabinet because they will be conducting these negotiations and will be discussing them in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you for this answer, because this is already a lot more specific and therefore more concrete. We absolutely need to learn from the lessons of the past when it comes to premature accession in the past of a number of countries. And it's absolutely not good that Juncker is going to name data as a kind of final moment, without checking the content and knowing what it's like. I agree with Mr Asscher. But then: the Labour Party has always been the party that wants to offer perspective to young generations, to people who want to move forward and take advantage of opportunities. This is also a very important argument in these countries, especially in Macedonia and Albania. Those are countries that would very much like to start talking about opening those negotiations on those criteria. How does the PvdA look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	A brief response from Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, that is why I said in my speech that the war there was not so long ago and the tensions there are palpable. You can also see examples of this. So it must not be the case that the European Union, the countries of the European Union, are abandoning that region and, in particular, abandoning the population. We must not abandon the young people who will also want to have some perspective. Just, I think it's a mistake to think that that can only be done by keeping the sausage from membership. That's a mistake of thinking that Juncker seems to be making in his explanation of his statement. This can be abused by authoritarian regimes. They can then say: "Well, you take it easy, then we will bring stability here and arrive in 2025 the ship with money," just to put it a little more plastic. I believe that it is in the interests of the people there, and in the interests of the people here, to be very strict about political reforms at that stage, too. For example, I believe that we need to link and condition the provision of pre-accession funds very strongly on the basis of visible, tangible, concrete reforms, an independent judiciary, freedom of the press. We have seen in recent elections in Serbia how unnatural that is. I think that in this way we are doing the young generation a better service than by offering too easily membership, which we would then later block as far as I am concerned because a country is not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. It is clearly stated once again in the annotated agenda: tomorrow's meeting in Sofia is not an enlargement summit. Enlargement of the EU is not on the agenda. It is only about how the EU can better cooperate with the countries of the Western Balkans in the fields of transport, energy and security. Everyone's signing a declaration on that cooperation. My group wonders why it is necessary to fool each other like that. Why are we here pretending to be a friendly and informal chat with the neighbors? Surely this is yet another step towards the enlargement of the European Union? In accepting the Presidency in the first half of 2018, Bulgaria's host stated that offering a European perspective to the countries of the Western Balkans would be one of the priorities. We all read on 17 April how the European Commission is looking at further enlargement of the Union. Of course, it must all be strict and fair; a mantra that also the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs keep repeating. And yes, they also think that Commission President Juncker spoke for his turn when he said last year that in 2025 the first new entrants would be welcome. Of course it's a wrong signal. Plenty of punches for the arm, you'd think. But the same thing keeps coming back in all the pieces and statements: the European Union must continue to grow. But why, that's what I'm asking. "It is an historic opportunity to connect the future of the Western Balkans and the European Union," writes the European Commission. Does the Prime Minister want to respond to that? A more concrete argument is that if we leave the Serbs, Montenegrins and Albanians to their fate, they will fall into the hands of the Russians or the Chinese. Can the Prime Minister explain whether he shares that fear and what it is based on? Then, of course, the argument of peace, security and stability always comes around the corner. If the Balkan countries come under the safe wings of Brussels, this will reduce the risks of conflict among themselves, we are told. But is that right? Can the Prime Minister explain in detail why tensions between countries such as Serbia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo would decrease or disappear if they were members of the European Union? Mr. Chairman. The debate is not about whether the countries of the Western Balkans become members of the European Union but apparently only when. It concerns the ticking of lists of conditions that these countries must fulfil in order to become full members. Montenegro and Serbia have already started this process. The European Commission says that Macedonia and Albania can begin. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the latter is not going to happen. There is still a great deal of work to be done within the current Union. Bulgaria and Romania are eager to be admitted to the Schengen area. Bulgaria would like to become part of the euro area. There are tough negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework. How are we going to shape the deepening of economic and monetary union? And how are we gonna settle the Brexit? In other Member States, we are seeing more and more developments that are at odds with what we in the European Union mean by the rule of law and democracy. Let us deal with this first, and let us really examine the added value of joining the Western Balkans to the European Union. Let's take a good look at other ways of tying those countries to us, without direct membership. Please answer from the Prime Minister. Minister Blok said in general consultation on 11 April that as far as he is concerned, the door to the accession of new countries is not even open in response to an explicit question from me. But in the meantime, the entrance train just thunders. That is why my group is considering asking for statements from the Chamber on this matter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Last Tuesday night Olivera Lakić was shot in the leg outside her house in Podgorica. It was a warning that she had to stop her journalistic investigation into organized crime for the daily Vijenti. The editor-in-chief of Vijesti has so far counted 25 attacks on his newspaper and journalists. It is a well-known pattern: where corruption is a pattern and where organized crime infiltrates the legal upper world, journalists are not sure of their lives. Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague Bram van Ojik today. On the day Lakić was shot in the leg in Montenegro, this journalist spoke with fellow roommates here in a hip café in the city with the opposition and the coalition there. Not in parliament, because it is boycotted by the opposition, because they believe that the elections were unfair. And at separate tables, because opposition and coalition don't talk to each other. A day later in Serbia, that pattern repeated itself. There too, the parliamentary delegation spoke separately with the opposition and the government parties, and it appears that Parliament is only being used as a place to bother each other and not to hold a serious debate together on major issues that concern the country, such as: how do we proceed with Kosovo? Or: how does the rapprochement with the EU go? The Western Balkans are not doing well. Democracy is not a good thing. Freedom of the press is under pressure; colleagues have already said so. The rule of law is only very limited. Corruption and organised crime are constantly lurking. Then it is no surprise that the debate on possible accession to the European Union raises resistance. We have previously allowed Bulgaria and Romania to join the European Union too early. We see in countries such as Poland and Hungary that the newly built rule of law is under considerable pressure. That presents us with dilemmas. Yes, the geopolitical importance of the Western Balkans for the European Union is evident. We do not want Russia, Turkey or China to benefit if we distance ourselves from it. At the same time, we face the challenge of making the European Union also function as a value project, more than as a single market. I would therefore like to know from the Prime Minister what ideas he has for making the European Union more able to keep pressure on Member States, even once they are members. This is very important because our cooperation goes far beyond just economic cooperation. In the area of justice, for example, we assume the principle of mutual trust, but then we must be able to rely on the legal states of the other Member States. Does the Prime Minister wish to change the unanimity required for suspension in accordance with the Article 7 procedure? Or does he perhaps have other ideas, such as conditionality of funding? I'd love to hear it. Do I approach the European Union sufficiently now that strengthening democracy and the rule of law is really an essential condition for ever to be able to join? There is sufficient investment in the development of the rule of law and democracy, but is there sufficient investment in the economic development of the region? What can the Netherlands contribute to this? Mr. Chairman. The Heads of Government are also talking about digitalisation this week. That's what happens at the famous dinner. What is the contribution of the Netherlands on this point? I would like to stress that this is also about geopolitical interests. Personal data are the new black gold, the engine of our modern economies. Most European personal data are now in the hands of a few American giants: Google, Amazon, Facebook. For our security and better service, governments are increasingly working with such companies and so we are becoming increasingly dependent on private American companies. How problematic does the Prime Minister think it is that Europe itself does not have data giants? What are the risks of this? For example, does he want to encourage the development of European search engines, which could then also comply with European privacy laws? In what other way does he intend to prevent the new black gold from being mined here? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I asked for a letter on Gaza prior to this debate. Well, the Prime Minister kept to that, because half a minute before this debate began, the letter came. I couldn't read it because of it. I'll do that and I'll come back to it. I actually think it should be understood that 'before the debate' is at least half an hour before that. But let me ask you one question. The High Representative has advocated an independent investigation into the violence, the massacre in Gaza. Does the Netherlands support this? Does the Netherlands want this to be requested by the European Heads of Government? Does he insist on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. Although it seemed rather quiet about the enlargement of the European Union, work continued on further expansion in the background and billions of euros of taxpayers' money were transferred to the Western Balkans. Some still remember the fiasco surrounding the accession of Romania and Bulgaria, but not in Brussels. Instead of taking the message of British departure seriously, we are moving forward with plans for deeper integration of the Member States and an increase in the number of members. As Juncker said in his State of the Union, the EU must continue to give the countries of the Western Balkans a credible prospect of enlargement. Juncker's statement was, of course, to be followed up. The Commission now recommends the opening of accession negotiations with Macedonia and Albania and proposes Serbia and Montenegro the date of 2025 for EU accession. Tomorrow there will be a summit which is supposedly not about enlargement. It is the first summit in 15 years with the countries of the Western Balkans. The summit was preceded by a real Balkan tour by the President of the European Council, who said in every country he visited that the EU and the Western Balkans belong together and emphasised the EU perspective. That perspective is accession. "Strong and fair" is the Office's mantra on accession policy. For the time being, neither of the countries is really concerned with accession, according to Minister Blok. For now. That is a different matter from a fundamental no to further enlargement of the European Union. No, because there's enough trouble already. No to Islamic Albania. No OIC country in the EU. No to corrupt criminal states of Kosovo and Bosnia. No to the entire Western Balkans, because no one is waiting for more net recipients and a corresponding high Dutch contribution. Even the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator is concerned about the more than 300 returned terrorists, who are barely being tackled, and the increasing Salafism in the region. How is it, I ask the Prime Minister, that the countries of the Western Balkans should be given a prospect of accession if, in the meantime, it is recognised that the terrorist threat is high from this region? Hasn't there been enough Islamic terror imported? Mr. Chairman. The PVV therefore wants clarity. Does the cabinet intend to agree to the Commission's recommendation to open accession negotiations with Macedonia and Albania? Can a country be a member of the EU and of the OIC? Does this cabinet want to expand to include countries that will all be net recipients again? What does the cabinet of the year 2025 think about the accession of Serbia and Montenegro? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. No Council conclusions at the summit, but a joint declaration. In the Thick of Dale, a "statement" is described as a solemn "commitment." A statement was also signed on 2 May. In Marrakesh, Secretary of State Harbers gave a solemn undertaking to promote immigration from Africa to Europe. On behalf of the Netherlands, the Netherlands was signed for legal roads of migrants, as if the millions of migrants who have illegally entered through the open borders were not enough, signed the Netherlands for more legal roads. Hungary, on the other hand, kept its back straight and did not sign. That's how it's gonna be. So tomorrow, on behalf of the Netherlands, the Prime Minister is going to sign another signature. I would like to hear before signing, where exactly a signature is going to be signed and why and what the status of this statement is. I would like to comment on this point. Finally, Mr President. The PVV is against enlargement of the European Union. As far as we are concerned, that should be the message at the summit: no enlargement, no pockets of money and no promises towards the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr President, thank you. The question many people in the Netherlands have is how we ensure security in and around Europe. On the one hand, people remember the war in the former Yugoslavia. I remember what people thought about that. I went there as a military conscript. Many people around me said: Anne, what are you going to do there; build a fence around it and let them figure it out themselves. At the same time, people also realized that this is not a real solution for a region that lies in our backyard. The summit we are discussing now is an informal summit in Sofia. There will be no decision-making. Nor is enlargement on the agenda. This summit is clearly not about that. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this summit is not about enlargement? This summit is about connectivity, about interconnection between the Balkan countries and the Balkans with the European Union. The summit is about cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime and in the fight against illegal migration. That should appeal to the PVV. There is a political statement on the table with agreements on the rule of law, security, traffic connections in the Western Balkans and good relations between those countries in the Balkans. These are conditions for economic growth. If countries have a rule of law that functions, an independent jurisdiction and a parliament that functions, then there is action between people and between countries. People who act have something to lose and want stability. Trade is also a binding element, because you have to keep to agreements and you have to take others into account. That is good for those people themselves and for the countries. Trade is also very liberal. It is also good for the European Union. It is good that this declaration with the Balkan countries is being made. I do have one comment. A number of colleagues have already said that the European Union is now travelling across the Balkans. I saw, for example, that Mr Tusk was visiting Serbia. There he said about President Vučić of Serbia: "That is my soul mate." I understand you're friendly as a diplomat, but Serbia has dropped ten places on the index of countries with regard to media freedom. If you say "soul mate," then I think that as a European Union you are sending a wrong signal to the President, but also to the people who expect reforms from the European Union, but who see that a president is being congratulated who is actually reducing media freedom. I'd like a response to that. Perhaps the Prime Minister could say something about that to Mr Tusk. Kindness is good, but don't overdo it. Mr. Chairman. The leaders of the Balkans themselves also have a great responsibility. They themselves must want to reform the rule of law, to tackle corruption themselves and to ensure a properly functioning democracy, not because the European Union wants to, but because you as a political leader have to serve your people. It would benefit him. So they have to do it all by themselves. Even if the European Union had not existed, a politician in the Balkans would still have to do so. Finally, I have already said that the enlargement of the European Union is not at this summit. We are going to talk about this later next month in a general discussion and in another debate, but I would like to make a comment on this. The VVD supports the cabinet when it comes to "string and fair." In Albania, they can now easily pronounce the words "string and fair" when they see a Dutchman. So they understand that exactly. It has already been said that we must be careful not to make the mistakes of the past when it comes to enlargement. Romania and Bulgaria have already been mentioned; they are still under curatel. So strict and fair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	I very much agree with Mr Mulder's observation of the far-reaching effect of such a so-called cozy statement on soul mates, because these statements end up with young people in such a country. Moreover, this is bad for trust here in the same European institutions and top figures. My question to Mr Mulder is whether it would not be good to ask the cabinet not only to abandon it, but also to ask for a stronger conditionality in the form of improvements, such as the freedom of the press, not membership, because this is obviously part of the process of cooperation, but also of other forms of cooperation, such as pre-accession and regional cooperation. Would it not be a good thing if we were to give the European Union a hand in singing its own values not only when it is convenient but also against these kind of government leaders, who understand a hard message better than a slimy one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yeah, that sounds like a good idea. The explanation before us also contains two things: the connectivity I mentioned, but also the rule of law. So those two belong together and you can make them conditional. It is very wise to do so and not just pet the sphere, especially at Vučić. I was shocked by that in the elections; Mr Asscher mentioned it. I was an election observer there. You don't see any plural press. Mr Tusk may congratulate Mr Vučić, but he said: "to support European values." Well, they were just being violated in that campaign. So be careful of what you say, because people who may be pro-EU are also seeing leaders of the European Union who are hitting the wrong people. Don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you for this clear and concrete answer. I will come back in second term with a proposal or suggestion on how we can send the cabinet out to emphasise that conditionality. This has not been dealt with at once and there is no decision for it now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yeah, if there's trade, then everything's fine. Child labour? Don't bitch, because there's business. Environmental pollution? Don't bitch, because there's business. Corruption? Don't bitch, because there's business. Very liberal of the VVD! But there is now trade with countries where freedom of the press does not exist, where journalists are killed because they expose the corruption of their governments and where investigations are also trained. I call Malta. Does Mr Mulder really think that it is liberal to say: well, there is trade, so the European Union works?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	This is making a caricature, isn't it? It's like, "Come on, it's okay." No, I just said very firm words about freedom in Serbia; and not just here, also in Serbia, Montenegro and Albania last week. So I say that trade can indeed help for stability. Trade, property and money are binding elements in a society. When you act, you have to consider someone. If you have property, you have to be careful about it. And you can only spend a euro once. That's very liberal. It leads to discipline in society. It leads to an inspiring connection, or is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	We trade with regimes where you prefer not to agitate or nod, because they bomb populations or use force against their own people. So the VVD business? I don't know if he's always so liberal. But what matters here is that the VVD says, on the one hand, that it is critical of the accession of these Member States because they are actually corrupt, have no pluralism of press or free news gathering, and no functioning opposition, while at the other hand it is silent about what is currently happening within the Union itself. In Hungary, for example, the only remaining opposition newspaper closed its doors after Orbán's profits, because they knew they could write what they wanted, but they weren't safe there. Is this the European Union that wants the VVD? Because there is trade, and then the rest is ultimately subordinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	Really, I find this interruption... Let me say that I have seen its quality better in the past. If Mrs Leijten is paying attention, she will see that the VVD makes critical comments about Poland and Hungary, saying that it should not go there. And as far as trade is concerned, I would prefer a Bosnian and a Serb to deal with each other rather than attack each other. I am not saying that trade makes up for everything at once, but that trade is a prerequisite for good cooperation. This is not a panacea for everything; much more needs to be done. But it is such a pity that Mrs Leijten makes it a caricature. I think that's affecting her, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	A "caricature," that's not critical enough. Well, the VVD thinks it's a good idea that that statement, which is secret and which we shouldn't really talk about, is signed. Now we all know that secret documents are also seen by MPs. And let those secret documents and that statement say that accession is the basis. Is the VVD so happy to sign that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	No, there is no basis for accession at all. It is about the European perspective. It is not said that there is accession; it is explicitly not. That's not in the statement you read. Mrs. Leijten is suggesting something. I have to respond to something that's actually not right. That's hard to debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	Oh, okay. So we have Juncker, who says 2025. We have Tusk who takes everyone on their feet, even though they have just been elected by not so free elections. And then there will be a statement, which should not be about accession. We should not know the text either, but the European perspective is at the heart of it. Well, I'm sorry, I've seen a lot of naivety in the European Union, but it's just here that the accession of these countries is being signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	Do you know what I think is wrong? "We can't see that statement." Then how could I have seen that statement? Because you can just take it out of the Delegates Portal. So you can see that statement as a Member of Parliament. That blabbermouth you can't see that statement suggests something's being held under the table. That is not the case. I agree that the European Union can be much more transparent, but it is not the case that, as a Member of Parliament, we have not been able to see that statement. If that is said here, it is simply wrong, and then we are conducting this debate a little on the basis of conspiracy theories. I think that's kind of weak. We can just see that statement. Anyone who wanted to do that as a Member of Parliament could have done that. And Mrs Leijten must not say that that is not true, because that is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	You may correct something, Mrs. Leijten, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	I do not think I should say that she is lying, but what she says is 'at odds with the truth', I believe that is the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	This is a secret document. I just said in my interruption that we can see it and we know it. But it is a secret document, because you cannot see it, Mr President, and the journalists cannot control it. We can't debate it that way. We cannot say here: the letters or that part of the statement must come out. "A caricature," "not sharp," "talk," you say. If trade is the centre of the VVD, then we have a European Union in which democratic values are violated at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	I've seen better interruptions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	I also find it very enlightening to hear the VVD speak about trade, because suddenly there is a very positive picture of people here. Like, as long as they trade, they all take each other into account. But I think that's very positive. I would say that, for example, European social and environmental standards would help not to create a very bald EU. But that wasn't my question. My question builds on what Mrs Leijten asked about the current Member States, for example Hungary and Poland, but there will also be others. How does the VVD intend to ensure that, if Member States are really in the danger zone and no longer comply with the most important criteria that ever existed before accession, these criteria can still be respected? We have the Article 7 procedure. Does the VVD want to ensure unanimity or quasi-unanimity, or does the VVD perhaps have other ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	That is a very topical question about Poland. We also held written consultations on this last week. Then I said on behalf of the VVD: one, we support the use of Article 7 if necessary, so that you can take action against Poland. I have said right, also in a number of debates, that you must be careful not to impose a democracy on top-down. It has to come from the people themselves. Can the cabinet do anything to stimulate the population? Could you perhaps ask countries like Portugal and Spain, relatively young and new democracies, to help with that? I see the new European budget with conditionality, i.e. conditionality: if a country does not comply with the principles of the rule of law, then it will not get any money. That kind of thing can help a lot. But this issue does show, and I agree with Mrs Buitenweg, that it is difficult to take action once a country is inside. That is why we must be so strict on these criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	What would that mean, for example, for judicial cooperation? Mr Mulder says that this has now become a problem in a number of countries, for example in Poland and Hungary. Of course, we can see how we can improve that. But at the moment we do have a problem with independent justice. At the same time, we work together with these countries on a judicial basis, on the basis of mutual trust. What impact does this have on judicial cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	That trust's gonna die. That means that the rule of law is under attack. This also means something for cooperation with these countries. 'Cause, yeah, this is gonna be tricky. That is why we must be so firm on Poland. I do not want to say that you can only "trade" if you are also sure that there is a rule of law where you can achieve your rights. If it comes under pressure, it will be at the expense of Poland itself, but also of cooperation in the European Union. I'm sure you'll have to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	Third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	Yes, third question, but I ask it because I do not think Mr Mulder fully understands my question. I don't mean the whole idea of trust in general. It is, of course, a legal term, on the basis of which we ensure that people are transferred and that evidence is handed over back and forth. So we can say that trust is going to die. I can see that, but what conclusion does the VVD draw from this? Will Mr Mulder, for example, say that judicial cooperation should be suspended at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	I don't want to go that far to say that right now, but of course you're running that chance. If there's no independent judge there anymore, you can have this kind of thing. That's exactly what we need to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	I have a question for Mr Mulder. He ended up with "string and fair." That's a term, a formulation. But how does he see the interpretation of that? We have learned from Romania and Bulgaria that the Copenhagen criteria are mainly politically weighted. There has been much less rigorous and fair assessment of whether all these criteria have been met in advance. We know that. That is a reason to be very critical of accession. My question is whether Mr Mulder agrees. I would add that Hungary and Poland prove that they do not meet it afterwards, if we think they have complied with it. This puts us in a very difficult situation, because we really need to be in that democracy...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u45	I agree. A number of colleagues have said the same. Dates have been mentioned for Bulgaria and Romania. Then that date will lead its own life, instead of meeting the criteria. We shouldn't make that mistake right now. It's about strictly meeting the criteria. A number of colleagues have also said that it is very unwise for Mr Juncker to mention dates. That is very unwise, because then it will become an end in itself, rather than meeting the criteria. Indeed, we must learn from the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you for this response, but my question was whether the wording'strong and fair', apart from the Copenhagen criteria, which of course belong to them, is so vague, apart from the political considerations, that you can go either way. I therefore ask Mr Mulder whether he should not be a little stricter. So strict and fair is fine, but for the time being we don't want to break down the door either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u47	Look at Serbia, for example. Chapters 23 and 24 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) are concerned with the rule of law. You can see how difficult Serbia is to meet that. So the criteria seem strict enough. You're gonna have to apply them. Then you should not make a political assessment on the basis of a date or geopolitics, for example: pay attention to Russia. You shouldn't let that guide you. But sometimes Russia seems to get a place. However, I am ahead of next month's debate. I will simply look at the facts: 80% of Serbia's investments come from the European Union, not Russia. So we shouldn't let that scare us. The European Commission should not do that, and we should not do that here. I don't think the Dutchman's gonna let himself get scared. We saw it in 2005 with the constitution: the light goes out; war. And go on, two thirds of the Dutch vote against. So they won't be scared either. If I were the European Commission, but I am not, I would be afraid of geopolitical matters, because that does not help. Just apply the criteria and don't bargain with them. Don't say, "France is Frankijk." Nor is it: the Balkans are the Balkans. We have to be very careful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u48	I have a bit of a feeling that Mr Mulder is going to fall into mantras of that strict and fair and apply those criteria. I'd like it to be a little more specific. In June, the Council will decide on the opening of accession negotiations with Albania and Macedonia. Mr Mulder has just referred to it. But quite specifically, is the VVD in favour of opening accession negotiations with Albania? Is the VVD in favour of opening accession negotiations with Macedonia?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u49	Then you really get ahead of the debate and start mixing debates. I am currently seeing Albania's cabinet position and track record. I think that's a good starting point. I think we will see an updated position in the coming weeks. Mrs. Maeijer talks about mantras. Mrs Maeijer makes it very easy for herself: the Netherlands must get out; they must never join. I just said I was trying to provoke an interruption. I thought the PVV was against illegal immigration. I did! But here it is said: no, no, no! And it's not going to be addressed at all. So I do not know whether Mrs Maeijer of the PVV is doing her electorate, who does not want illegal immigration, a service here; not with her mantra, but with her stubbornness. I'm not sure, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr Mulder has just mentioned better interruptions by Mrs Leijten, but I have also heard better answers from Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u51	It's still quiet out there, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u52	Just a little more specific. I asked you two questions, which you can simply answer with yes or no. Is the VVD in favour of opening accession negotiations with Albania and Macedonia? June is in three weeks' time, so I don't know if you expect these countries to make great reforms in three weeks, but what is the VVD position now? Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u53	I have already said that this summit is not about enlargement. I've asked the Prime Minister to confirm that. You shouldn't confuse the debates. We still have a general discussion on this. We also have a summit on it. I've seen the cabinet position and a track record. I have been with a number of colleagues in Albania. I think it would be wise to say that. I am still looking forward to the answer to the question as to which service Mrs Maeijer is proving to her constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u54	No, Mrs. Maeijer is asking the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u55	A little entrapment from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Mulder, at least I do my constituents a better service than you do your VVD voters with signing the Marrakesh Declaration. You are talking about combating illegal immigration, but your Secretary of State is signing a declaration to promote legal immigration. So what are you talking about? But I am dealing with my own questions and I am asking you two here, because tomorrow there will be a summit on enlargement and on the European perspective for the Western Balkans. So I still like to hear the answers to my two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u57	My first comment is this. Mrs Maeijer assumes that this summit is about enlargement. I don't think that's what it's about. We're about to hear it from the Prime Minister. I asked the question back. It's a little entrapment. We saw that war 20 years ago. We've seen these migratory flows. We know what the PVV says about migration. This summit is about illegal immigration and all I hear is "no, no, no!" from the PVV. Well, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Madam President. The Sofia Summit this week is dedicated to the Western Balkans. It's been a while. The Christian Union considers it important that the European Union continues to invest in good relations with the countries of the Western Balkans. Stability in the region and development of the Balkan countries are of great importance. The Union can also help with this. That is why it is right that the summit should focus on transport and energy links. This is not a derivative of the enlargement of the European Union, but a genuinely right point of attention. There are still major challenges ahead. For example, Serbia is still almost entirely dependent on Russia for its energy supply and there is a need for better transport links, not only between the countries in the region itself, but also with the Member States of the European Union. I ask the government what the Dutch commitment in these areas will be at the summit. Mr. Chairman. During my visit to Kosovo in March, and last week to Albania, Montenegro and Serbia with the committee, I found that there is a desire in these countries to join the European Union in the long term. But before that, there's still a lot to be done. At present, in the view of the Christian Union, they are still very far from membership of the European Union. I have great concerns about the functioning of the rule of law and democracy in these countries. There are still major steps to be taken in this respect. This also applies to the fight against organised crime and corruption. This is a major issue in all the countries of the Balkans. Free press is a major concern and ethnic tensions are still present in the region. So resolving bilateral conflicts is very important, as is working on reconciliation. The Christian Union therefore questions the European Commission's strategy towards the Western Balkans. Listing years for possible accession is a distraction from what it really should be about. In doing so, the Commission does not serve the countries of the Western Balkans and the Union. Not accession to the Union by 2025, but sustainable reforms should be the goal. Strengthening democracy and the rule of law and tackling corruption must be the issue. In addition, the European Commission makes a distinction between countries by naming them as forerunners and lagers. This is not helpful in resolving bilateral conflicts. For example, Serbia is seen as a forerunner, but what exactly does that mean if it still regards Kosovo as its territory? With raising expectations, you always have to be careful. That's a lesson I learned early. However, it seems that Commission President Juncker and the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, do not know this lesson at all and during their tour in the region have raised expectations and made promises about the European perspective for these countries and their accession to the European Union. That leads me to the question of what mandate they made these statements with. They are at odds with the agreement we have in Europe that you must meet the accession criteria. I would ask the Prime Minister to reflect on this and to address the President of the European Council. Mr. Chairman. Although decisions on accession to the Union are not on the agenda, this is of course an issue. The Christian Union considers it important that the Netherlands adheres strictly and fairly to the criteria we have agreed. We need to hold that line. This brings clarity, fairness and fairness and provides a level playing field, and that is precisely in the interests of the survival of the European Union as a community of values. This also applies to the conditions imposed on the Member States for starting negotiations. I expect the government to hold onto this. Can the Prime Minister promise that no commitments will be made at this summit by the Netherlands on the accession of these Member States to the European Union, or the opening of negotiations? I come to a conclusion, Mr President. Sustainable reforms and democratisation in the Western Balkans must come from within. We can help with this as a Union, but the rule of law is also under pressure in the European Union itself. Think of Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Malta. We must work on this within the Union and also appeal to the Member States. The Commission's enlargement strategy is moving very quickly across the state of the rule of law and the fight against corruption, reflecting the state of the Union itself on the rule of law. We have to watch for that. Therefore, the Netherlands must continue to point to the Union as a value community, which values values such as democracy, the rule of law, freedoms and human rights, which we are also internationally recognizable by. That is what the citizens of the Union deserve, but also the inhabitants of the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u60	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Tomorrow, the Western Balkans will take place in the capital of Bulgaria, Sofia. It will include the rule of law and illegal migration. The European Union's strategy for the Western Balkans is to embrace values and fulfil conditions. How symbolic is it that the summit is held in a city where there is a government that said last August that refugees should be kept out of the door with weapons if necessary? What value is embraced here, you wonder. How symbolic is it for the dehumanisation of refugees, for example, when the summit is organized by a country whose inhabitants openly indicate that they are hunting refugees, as if they were animals? How sad is it that a country such as Bulgaria, as the initiator of this summit, does not fulfil the conditions that we are asking of the Western Balkan countries, even for Slovakia, Poland and Hungary? I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to address these countries together with other countries on their responsibility. But, Mr President, before this is discussed, the Prime Minister will first have dinner with the European Heads of Government. Research, innovation and digitalisation would be discussed. All right, President, while European Heads of Government want to talk about research, innovation and digitisation, after a one-two with Netanyahu, Trump has made the world a lot more unsafe by blowing up the nuclear deal with Iran and making sure that 100 people died and 12,000 injured by moving the U.S. Embassy to Al-Quds. Merkel, Macron and Rutte are going to talk about research, innovation and digitisation! Mr. Chairman. Relative is an art, and I like to relate. According to the United Nations World Happiness Report, the Netherlands is the sixth happiest country in the world. According to Unicef, Dutch children are the happiest on earth. We can take our children to school, we can see how they develop. We put them in their beds at night, read them and give them a kiss. We see them grow up in freedom. Of course, we also have concerns. And those concerns are relative, Mr. Chairman. I also praise myself for living in the Netherlands and letting my children grow up here. But how different is that for the parents in Gaza. To be occupied for 70 years, to be colonized for 70 years, to be locked up in a modern concentration camp, as Hajo Meyer, survivor of Auschwitz, characterized the Gaza Strip. For 70 years, the Western world has watched a state that continues to build illegal settlements to create lebensraum keep its hands above its heads. For 70 years a state promotes immigration from a homogeneous group with the "Heim ins Reich" idea and on the other hand puts 2 million people on a small piece of earth. To clarify: if we were to move the population density of Gaza to the Netherlands, there would be not 17 million people but 220 million people living in the Netherlands. And, president, Macron, Merkel and Rutte are going to talk about research, innovation and digitisation. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, Macron, Merkel and Rutte should not talk about research, innovation and digitization during dinner. They should talk together with the other European Heads of Government about the situation in Gaza at the moment. They should show their teeth and suspend the EU treaty with Israel until the Israeli government stops violating international law, stops building illegal settlements and does not arrest and imprison children without a pardon. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Especially our Prime Minister Rutte, the Prime Minister of the country that has been occupied for five years in recent history and celebrates liberation annually on 5 May, should, together with all the other Dutch, show more empathy for a country and a people who have been occupied and oppressed for 70 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr. Chairman. This summit focuses on the relationship between the European Union and the Western Balkans. My input will focus on that, but there are also a few small issues, such as Trump, Gaza Strip and Italy, which have a number of questions. The countries in the Western Balkans are neighbouring countries of the Union. That's why it's good to have a summit with them. You have to deal with problems, and they're big, together. That's why you need good neighborhood. And it's important to keep talking to them. However, we must note that these countries are making little or no progress. This is, first and foremost, very problematic for the citizens of the countries themselves. It is those citizens who have to deal with their directors, through elections, through critical media documents. So European leaders may want something, but the change in mentality and tackling maladministration there is first and foremost the responsibility of the countries themselves. As far as the lack of progress is concerned, our work visit to the Balkans has put our noses on the facts. There was no open debate on Europe in Serbia. The European Commission's report is not even discussed in Parliament. In Albania, the Public Prosecutor's Office is being removed from the prosecution of the former Minister of the Interior and the current Minister of the Interior is changing the law so that his brother, sentenced to seven years for drug offences in Italy, is not extradited. And by the way, no one is extradited, not even to the Netherlands, if he is convicted in absentia. So much for cooperation in the legal field. And in Montenegro, a journalist was shot in the leg. It's already been referred to. Then there are the lists the Prime Minister loves so much. All these countries are well among the EU countries on important lists. They're very poor, with the freedom of the press they score around place 100. That's behind half of Africa. We can talk about corruption, too. The U.S. State Department is just talking about state capture. The underworld has taken over the upperworld. In this context, the CDA Group therefore calls on the government, at this summit, to make good agreements on cooperation with its neighbours, but not to take any promises or steps on accession at all. We will talk about accession later, that's what AO is for. I would, however, like to ask the government to include other issues such as roads and connectivity on the agenda: freedom of the press, Europol cooperation in the field of crime. Of course, further agreements can be made on economic development and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u64	Last question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u65	I hear the CDA say, like the Christian Union, not to make any agreement on accession or the opening of negotiations. Surely the request should be for the Prime Minister not to sign that declaration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u66	As I read that statement, there is no date in it, nor is there any promise about being able to join. I would ask the Prime Minister whether this draft declaration does not change in any way which does, and therefore does not make any informal commitments, because that is, of course, the question. That is a fair question from Mrs Leijten, that you do not promise informally, that you will do so in June and then be held to it. That is the question we put to the Prime Minister here. Otherwise we cannot quietly have a general discussion and a debate on accession that we are planning in three weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u67	I understand very well, indeed not making a commitment now, because that debate will not be held until later. Mr Omtzigt rightly says that there is a really bad situation in many parts of the Balkans, especially with regard to the rule of law and democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u69	The Netherlands has the policy that we want to be strict and fair. What is that now aimed at as far as the CDA is concerned? Is this aimed at ensuring that countries finally meet the criteria to join the European Union afterwards, or is it the question, as far as Mr Omtzig is concerned, whether they should stay indoors, even if they meet the criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u70	It was rightly referred to by my predecessor, the previous summit was in Thessaloniki in 2003. That is indeed the European perspective at the time. I have to say with great regret that very little progress has been made by a number of countries since 2003. So there is no certainty for us that this progress will lead to European accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u71	Can I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u72	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u73	The question is: but if they meet the criteria, can they join the CDA? And is the CDA also committed to ensuring that these countries comply with them, so that they join the European Union afterwards? So if they are satisfied, can they become members of the European Union as far as you are concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u74	They currently do not meet the criteria in such a way that this is a hypothetical demand from the top shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'd like to continue with this. The VVD, which I like and often criticize for their Europe course, is very clear here. They say in their election programme and also through their spokesperson: if a country meets the Copenhagen criteria, they can join them. That is very clear and also very pure, because then you know where you stand as a country. Then, as the European Union, you can put pressure on those countries to comply. Mr Omtzigt moved the question forward and did not want to give the answer. He says it's hypothetical and they haven't made much progress. I fully agree with Mr Omtzigt that there are many points of improvement. I was there with Mr Omtzigt and a number of other Members of Parliament. What he's saying is true. There's some crazy stuff going on out there. The question is then: how do you look at the situation and which side are you on when you think about the perspective or the criteria...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u76	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr Omtzigt must be quite clear. If a country meets the Copenhagen criteria, then the CDA must also say: can they join?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u78	If a candidate country, for example Serbia, has concluded the negotiations and then meets the Copenhagen criteria, then we will agree at that time. But I think that two other parties are following the opposite line of reasoning. These countries are not ready to open negotiations. We have seen that opening the negotiations in Serbia and Montenegro has not led to the hoped-for acceleration of reforms. There really is a decline in the reforms. Sometimes I feel that the desire to get these countries to join has become so leading that all these demands have persisted. If we have learned one lesson from the admission of Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus, from the admission of Greece to the euro and from the admission of Italy to the euro, then it is that everyone is constantly talking about this: they are almost fulfilling. These countries are not satisfactory at the moment. It's so obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u79	I agree with Mr Omtzigt that we need to learn from the lessons of the past with regard to Romania and Bulgaria. We did. We are showing this on the basis of the example of Turkey, a country that is already negotiating, like Serbia and Montenegro, and that a development has gone the wrong way. We all agree on that here in this Chamber. What has turned out to be the case? The European Union has closed the negotiations. This means that we no longer handle the Copenhagen criteria in a gentle way. That means we've learned from the past and we're really measuring a country hard. If we do that, can't we do that to Montenegro and Serbia? Then we can also look at starting talks with other countries that have already implemented reforms in other areas. Well, then the CDA has to have the courage to do that, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u80	One of the five conditions imposed by the European Commission on Albania was a track record in the fight against crime and a track record in the fight against corruption. We've been there. With the examples I mentioned here, which go up to the government of Albania, no one can say with a dry eye that the conditions are met. Yet here I see parties saying: we are going to negotiate, even if they do not meet the conditions, but next time we will be tough again. That's exactly the mistake we've made here all the time. I really want to say something about the example of Turkey. Turkey had to fire 100,000 people, throw tens of thousands of people in prison and replace the entire judiciary, and they still receive pre-accession aid. The Union has not acted decisively. It acted very hesitantly when the rule of law was completely out of control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u81	I have two questions. Do I understand why Mr Omtzigt says that the accession negotiations with Albania will not be opened in June?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u82	I have decided to open that debate at the AO, but I did say that I do not see a track record here in the area of corruption and crime prevention. Those were two of the terms. At least I'll measure those terms later. If your next question is "do you think they're gonna do that in three weeks?', Then my answer is: mwah, I see that very gloomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u83	That's not my next question. My next question concerns the point that a resolution on the 2016 Commission report on Albania was adopted in the European Parliament on 15 February 2017. It reads as follows: "Welcomes the Commission's recommendation to open accession negotiations with Albania and supports Albania's accession to the EU'. This applies to D66, the SGP, the CDA, the PvdA, GroenLinks and the Christian Union. Have you come back to your position, or are these reforms in Albania not going as quickly as you expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mrs Maeijer has seen how we voted here. The CDA has not only opposed the opening of accession negotiations, the CDA was also in the Lower House on both occasions, the petitioner and co-subsist of the motion that asked for Albania not to be a candidate country because we had also read the other rule in the European Commission's report, namely that Albania is not a functional market economy. That is a neat phrase for an economy where there is a little too much illegal activity. One of the Copenhagen criteria is a functional market economy, even for That is a condition, but Albania is not often so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u85	Finally, Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think that we can draw the conclusion that there are two different CDA positions, the position of the CDA here in the House of Representatives and the position of the CDA in the European Parliament which meant that we were in favour of Albania's accession last year and also for the opening of negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u87	Last year there was no vote on the opening of negotiations. Only megalange resolutions have been tabled. At least one person here knows how this is going in the European Parliament. At the moment when they are recommended motions, the whole motion will be voted yes or no. I should take a look at them on how it was specific in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u89	There was no proposal to open the negotiations and they have not therefore been opened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u91	Let's see, where was I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u92	Where were you? Perhaps you have already said everything, including through the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u93	No, I actually promised to mention a few other themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u94	You still have a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u95	One more comment. If these countries still want to introduce EU legislation, we would appreciate it if they started legislation that would make the assets and ties of politicians clear. These are imported into the Netherlands, but in some of these countries they seem to me to be at least as necessary. Then there are a few other issues. Syria and returners. The urgency of a joint approach is now clear, especially with these countries. For example, there are many extravagants from Kosovo and Bosnia. How do these countries participate in the joint EU strategy against returners? By the way, does the government already know which groups of other countries and the Netherlands have paid in Syria? Parliament's questions on this matter have still not been answered. We'd like to get those answers. This could be the first time that a new Italian government has not taken part. This government has announced in leaked documents that it intends to write off EUR 250 billion of the Italian State loan that the ECB has purchased. Can the government make an appreciation of this plan to the Chamber next week and indicate how we will safeguard the essential interests of the Dutch State if such things are proposed? Mr. Chairman. I'm out of time. I'm gonna drop the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u96	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. Last week, with the European Affairs Committee, I was in Albania, Montenegro and Serbia, the Western Balkans, which is the subject of tomorrow's EU summit. Often forgotten, and therefore worth noting, is the fact that the Balkan countries are at different stages of accession as part of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Slovenia and Croatia are members of the EU. Montenegro and Serbia have been negotiating since 2012 and 2014. Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina have not even been recognised as candidates. And then there are the current candidates Albania and Macedonia. The European Commission wants the accession talks to start with them. These talks are formal negotiations whereby a country is placed along the European measuring bar. The duration of the process and the outcome are not fixed. Turkey is showing this. This shows that the European Union has also learned from the mistakes made in the past, namely that opening negotiations is not a guarantee of eventual accession. The Balkan countries we are talking about today still have a long way to go. In the meantime, other forces are taking their chances. Turkey builds mosques, China invests in bridges and railway lines and Russia makes the propaganda machine run well in those countries. Does this automatically mean that we have to open the doors? No, it does not mean that, but we can offer a European perspective of democracy, the rule of law and human rights to the progressive forces. To the young generations, to entrepreneurs and to politicians who really want to move their country forward. These are often not the leaders who are doing some sort of lip service to the European Union. It is often the opposition forces, who really want to move forward with their country and change it. In any case, it is essential that a country should only be allowed to join the European Union as minute and fully fulfilled the Copenhagen criteria. To mention the years, as Mr Asscher and other colleagues have said, is therefore very unwise, I say to Mr Juncker, who of course is following this live today. The young people in the Balkans want to modernise. Since the arrival of the new government in 2017, Macedonia has implemented major reforms, such as restoring the independence of the judiciary and public administration, following a strong dip in the country. In Albania, judges are being re-assessed in a so-called fatting process and progress has been made in the field of human rights. There are also a lot of things that need to be done even better in those two countries. This has also been explicitly discussed. D66 considers the benefits of talks with Macedonia and Albania to be greater than the disadvantages. Once again, this does not mean that the countries join quickly. They're far from there, and they're not even sure they're gonna get there. However, the opening of negotiations forces these countries to reform democracy, institutions, the rule of law, fundamental rights and also their economy. Now they're stuck in the waiting room. As far as D66 is concerned, they get out of there and get to work on their health thoroughly. Strict and fair. That is what we are all repeating here. The Netherlands is almost a symbol of this approach of strict and fair. We are and will have to remain strict when it comes to the Copenhagen criteria. But I ask the Prime Minister: does he see that it is fair to offer countries perspective as well? I'd like a response. I will conclude with the category of countries that are already members. For those countries that are not yet members, it is very clear: offer perspective, but learn from the lessons of the past. But we also have EU members with a problem: Hungary and Poland. They do not respect the rule of law and the democratic rules of the game. That is unacceptable to D66. That's why we say three things. One. Start with a fundamental rights map, which all Member States pass the same standard each year. Two. Let Commissioner Timmermans continue the Article 7 procedure against Poland. Three. Bring conditionality into the budget: only EU money if the rule of law is in order. I think Mr Asscher said a number of things about this too. Can we expect the Prime Minister to make a strong commitment on these three points and to inform the Chamber of developments in Europe at the negotiating table where he will be travelling tomorrow? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u98	I think perhaps just as different from Mr Verhoeven about the phase in which some of those countries are in, where he is firm about conditionality. Could it not be for the countries that are now in the waiting room? I think a distinction can be made between the development in Macedonia that Mr Verhoeven outlined and the development in Albania. From this you can conclude that great progress can also be made in that waiting room, if the government wants it to involve civil society and the population. It would be almost unjust to reward another country with the same status. Would it not be better to impose the hard demand of conditionality on partners of the European Union, pre-accession partners, candidate members, in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u99	I think conditionality is a very good principle. That is what I said at various times in the debate. You can fill in conditionality in many different ways. Mr Asscher is actually saying to me: you must also apply conditionality to the starting or non-starting of the talks on opening the chapters. For countries that are already members of the Union, you no longer have screening on the basis of the Copenhagen criteria as conditionality, that car wash that may take decades. That is why I believe that you should do something with the budgets in the budget vis-à-vis the Member States. For all other countries, which are not yet members, the Copenhagen criteria mean that you are working on conditionality. To add another plus-conditionality for yet another country... I understand the idea, but I think it is lacking in the perspective that I would like to offer to progressive forces, young people who really want to change their country and say to me: we have tried everything. We've been through oppression. We've been through bloodshed. We've been through communism. We have only one thing left, and that is a compelling, objective European Union that puts us past the measuring bar and forces our leaders to really change something, not just through lip service. And that story, which I have heard during the three days in those countries and which I have heard less about, is one of the most important things I have taken to this Parliament. That's why I don't go along with that "plus conditionality."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u100	I understand that reasoning. Nor am I concerned with setting the Copenhagen criteria. But before you meet those criteria, the European Council must decide whether it wants to put a country along that measuring bar at all. I am therefore concerned that you link conditionality in the same way to countries where there is a problem of corruption and where European money flows. This seems to me to be in the interests of the younger people, and, frankly, also in the interests of the confidence of all of us in how these European institutions work. You show us: we're not just going one way, we're going the other way. That means you're gonna look a lot more serious, too. You don't do that because of the argument, that you have to weigh in value, that it is necessary to eventually be able to prospect membership. No, you say: we work together with countries and we also have a geopolitical interest in the development of these countries into democratic constitutional states.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u102	That is protection against Russia and against Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u103	Yes, I agree with Mr Asscher. I think Montenegro is a very good example at the moment, because Mr Omtzigt is, of course, right that Turkey may be a very exceptional example. We have also been to Montenegro, a country with 600,000 inhabitants. There are a lot of signals on orange or just on bright red. There is a leader who has been there for 30 years, there is a parliament that does not want to meet in opposition and coalition contexts and you name it all. That country has been negotiating for six years; for six years. We have now closed out of the 35 chapters three. That indicates that this mistake in the past and that conditionality is commonplace. That country is being very clearly placed along the measuring bar and the criteria are no longer being taken into account. It is said very clearly: okay, you have taken this step and after years of effort we close this chapter. And we were also in Serbia, Mr. President. There the main negotiator of that country is a very impressive woman who really knows all the files in detail. People are opening different chapters there. So they want to open a few more chapters there and they haven't closed one yet. This chief negotiator showed how much a country has to do to finally get close to what is being asked on one of those 35 chapters. By which I mean that these Copenhagen criteria really do us a great deal in terms of conditionality, and so we also have control and therefore control over these countries. So they do not just become members of the European Union, as has happened too often in the past and therefore wrongly; that is what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u105	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the subject that was most in cut in the first term of the Chamber. That was enlargement. Indeed, I can say that this subject is not on the agenda at tonight's sitting and tomorrow's sitting. Decision-making on the enlargement package is on the agenda of 26 June. The focus of this summit will be on improving transport and energy connections and cooperation on security and migration. Perhaps a few words in response to what has been said in the Chamber on the subject of accession. But once again, I think it is best that this should be dealt with in the General Affairs Council general consultation scheduled for 20 June and the general consultation on Enlargement on 21 June. Yes, strictly and fairly. Candidates must meet all criteria before the Netherlands can agree to a possible next step. The questions that are always raised relate to the rule of law and the economy. The focus in the accession process is the fundamentals. These are the rule of law, the economy, but also the administration. These are the pillars that countries must have in order. There are serious questions about media freedom in the Western Balkans. Mrs Buitenweg and others have mentioned compelling examples of recent incidents as well as more structural developments there. As far as the government is concerned, too, freedom of the media is crucial to the development of a functioning democracy. That is why this has been included in the declaration of this summit. I'll make it myself. Freedom of the press is a fixed criterion in the review of candidate countries for the start of accession negotiations and, of course, is also part of the criteria during the negotiations. This is the chapter on the rule of law and human rights. But freedom of the press, free media, is an important criterion in the review of candidate countries. The rule of law and human rights are of course important not only in enlargement countries but also within the European Union. I will say a little more about this in a moment, in response to several comments made on the internal EU process. In our letter, the first appreciation of the Commission's proposals, you will of course see how the cabinet reacts to both Albania and Macedonia. You see the reluctance of the government to make the Commission's proposals there. But once again, my suggestion would be to refer to the forthcoming general consultation. The declaration of this summit is accessible through the Delegates Portal and becomes public after the summit. That of course has a logical reason, namely that this statement is being negotiated; otherwise all these draft texts will already come out before the summit. Of course, I will prevent agreements from being reached at this summit that go beyond what is now foreseen. So no statements about starting accession negotiations. Finally, the Commission's proposals for enlargement, perhaps one more comment. Mr Omtzigt says: what about the countries in the Western Balkans and the strategy for Syria and returners? Both the Member States of the European Union and the countries of the Western Balkans participate in international consultations on counter-terrorism. It also addresses the issue of returners. Pre-accession funds cover projects and support border management within the European Union. The Western Balkans also participates in counter-terrorism. Part of this is also the whole issue of returners from Syria. This is mainly about the exchange of information. It is important to underline that this is a matter of full national competence. Each Member State therefore draws up its own policy, but we are trying to coordinate this as best we can. The question of the Western Balkans, the returners and the issue of counter-terrorism. Mr. Chairman. These are, I think, the questions that are directly related to the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u107	First, a procedural point. Can Sofia's statement be made public? Then I can ask questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u108	No, that's a statement in the making. Negotiations are under way on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u109	It is said here, for example, that freedom of the press is an integral part, but that is not a goal. It is only mentioned as an important basis. It does not say: freedom of the press and the free press are being sought. So I find it difficult to respond to the Prime Minister if the statement is not public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u110	I think it's different. Freedom of the press is a fixed criterion in the review of candidate countries for the start of accession negotiations. That is not even part of the statement of this summit. In the statement at this summit, I will address the issue of freedom of the media. That is also included in the declaration of the summit. But the summit statement is not a legal text. It is legally established that media freedom is part of the review criteria for candidate countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u111	I started by saying 'it is not about enlargement, but it is about enlargement'. The agenda contains the signing of a declaration that we cannot discuss, because it is classified. Mr Omtzigt referred to the declaration of intent on enlargement. If I am not allowed to refer to the statement and not be able to table a motion on it later, the debate will stop altogether. Then the Prime Minister can say what he wants and say nice words about media freedom, but it's just really not in there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u112	I'm just repeating the answer. The point is not so much that media freedom is mentioned in this statement. Freedom of the media is, and this is an important legal fact for the EU-28, one of the criteria for assessing the possibility of starting talks with candidate countries on accession. That's what that comes back to. Why are these statements secret until they're finished? Because otherwise the texts can no longer be negotiated at all, because then it is clear in advance what has happened, and of course that cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u113	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u114	So we cannot control what the Dutch Government is doing. Well, I guess I should have said that. With that, there is a democratic deficit. The Prime Minister says: we really don't need the statement; I go back to the Copenhagen criteria, in which media freedom is an important legal point for accession talks with candidate countries and possible accession at all. Why, then, can the European Commission's assessment be that the talks can be opened, even though the media freedom, freedom of the press and the independent press are appalled? Those countries have fallen on the indexes that exist before that. How does the Prime Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u115	That is a question that the SP should ask the European Parliament or the Commissioner responsible. I am not responsible for the Commission's opinion. I am responsible for the cabinet response to the Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u116	I think it's going to be a repeat of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u117	No, Mr. Chairman. We have a Commission proposal, and that is clear. The Dutch government does not wish to do so. The Dutch Government represents us all at a Council of Ministers of Heads of Government. That is not where they are going to talk about enlargement, but they are going to sign a declaration that goes back to the declaration of intent on enlargement. That's when the freedom of the media comes back around the corner. Why, then, should you sign that statement if you know that the Copenhagen criteria are not being met at all at the moment? Should you not say at the European summit that is to come: we are in favour of declarations and intentions, but only when things are right with the independent press, the free press, the fight against corruption and so on? Then you can't sign that statement next Thursday, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u118	As I said, this summit is not about enlargement. This summit is about a number of agreements that we are going to make on improving, for example, transport and energy connections. Mrs Leijten says that there is a link with 2003. There was a perspective at the time. That perspective may or may not land in the opening of accession negotiations. This debate is being discussed at the June European Council. What is now in the text is "the EU welcomes the Western Balkans partners' commitment (...)" et cetera, et cetera. Then it says: "civil society and independent media play a crucial role in the process of democratization." That is what the draft texts of the Sofia Declaration now contain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u119	I would like to make a final point on this point, Mrs Leijten. Then I go to Mrs Maeijer and then to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u120	If the Prime Minister can quote from it, can't he make it public? I also read the relevant piece. It's about democracy and the rule of law. There is then a finding that independent media play a role in the process of democratization, but there is no intention to build, provide or protect that independent media and free press. They don't even exist in those countries. You can take it as some sort of observation, but is it not the intention that the free press should be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u121	I do not think that the Western Balkan countries will in all respects agree with Mrs Leijten's appreciation of the freedom of the press in those countries. It is up to the countries themselves to appreciate this. This is a statement by the EU-28 and the Western Balkans. In order to make sure that there is enough lock on the door and Mrs Leijten is going to sit down cribby, although I think we agree, I would point out that one of the criteria is the question of the free media in the question of whether you can start talks with a country about accession. I share that concern with Mrs Leijten, because I also see that I have mentioned other examples that it is not well done on this point in a number of cases. This is an incident and is partly structural. To the extent that there would be concern, this is to the extent that the criteria are applied to the issue or negotiations can eventually be started. That is a decision of the EU-28, not of the EU-28, plus the six Western Balkan countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u122	I have asked a number of questions in my speech about, among other things, the Juice of the Cabinet of the Commission's strategy. The Commission recommends opening negotiations with Albania and Macedonia. The cabinet says on Albania that it is not convinced of the recommendations of the European Commission and of Macedonia that good steps have been taken and that negotiations can only start when the Council has established that there is conservation and deepening and so on. But in order to make this very specific, I would like to ask the cabinet where it is. Does the government intend to agree to the opening of accession negotiations with Albania and Macedonia, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u123	I do not have the impression that the texts you read point in that direction. I want to leave it at that, because I prepared for the summit today and tomorrow. There is a general discussion planned on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u124	I really don't understand. Even if the answer is no or yes, the cabinet does have a position, doesn't it? Tomorrow you will have a summit with the countries of the Western Balkans, where you are going to confirm that their perspective lies in the European Union. Surely, as a chamber, we should know where this cabinet stands? Are you planning to open the negotiations, yes or no? 'Cause I'm not literally taking that out of the play as it stands. I just want a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u125	Yeah, I want so much, too. I would like to point out to Mrs Maeijer that I believe the text is clear and does not point in the direction of great enthusiasm in this cabinet with regard to the opening of negotiations. But I would also point out that we have a process here in the Chamber and also between the Cabinet and the Chamber and that we are preparing for the debate that is at issue. This debate is not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u126	I had a debate with Minister Blok in the AO on 11 April. Finally, I said about enlargement: 'This is at the formal moment, but there is also a lot of informal work in Brussels. I want to avoid that in this informal discussion even the cracks are being made to open conversations." Minister Blok then said: "This crack is not made." What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u127	The cabinet speaks with one mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u128	This will give you the answer that the door for conversations is not open. I do not hear that at all in response to questions from me and colleagues. You say that this is not yet on the agenda, but Minister Blok replied to me on 11 April that that door is not open. That was not even about one country, but actually about all the countries with which discussions are or could be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u129	I really ask Mr Van Rooijen to discuss with me now what we would discuss and what we have prepared. What Mr Van Rooijen wants now is an in-depth discussion on what is actually planned for June. I can feel it all; his whole attitude and also his contribution radiate that. I don't think that's wise. There's a Cabinet Juice Appreciation. I think it's clear. Mr Blok's remarks were, of course, clear at that point. The cabinet always speaks with one mouth. We do not have the choice whether or not we like Western Balkan countries coming to the European Union. A perspective was given in 2003. A European perspective has been offered to the Western Balkan countries, which took place in 2003. Then we in Europe have criteria: criteria if you are negotiating and criteria to be able to negotiate at all. We're in that phase now, where you have to weigh those criteria. The Commission gave birth to an opinion and the cabinet gave birth to an opinion on the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u130	I have also asked a question that the Prime Minister has not yet answered. I thought he was at the end now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u131	He's just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u132	Yes, but he was at the end of this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u133	Yes, I was done with this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u134	I asked two questions about this, namely whether we consider the Commission's argument with regard to Russia and China to be valid. I asked two specific questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u135	On the first point, I would like to reply in general terms that we, as Europe and also as the European Union, naturally have to ensure that there are major geopolitical shifts. China is now the second economy in the world and we see in many parts of the world that China is trying to increase its influence and is also looking at how it can build relationships that focus on logistical access and/or raw materials access. The Netherlands is also talking about this with China. That's not all negative. There are also positive aspects, in which the Netherlands is also involved. I am also looking at the One Belt initiative. With regard to the second question, I assume that Mr Van Rooijen means...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u136	What about Russia? That's closer to the Balkans. Would you like to say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u137	Yes. Mr Van Rooijen has actually already given the answer in his question. So this is going to be a bit of giving back to him the Easter egg he hid, because I agree with him that we naturally have to ensure that Russia plays a role in the Western Balkans and is trying to see from Russia experienced Slavic connections to see if a more special relationship can be built not with all countries but with a number of countries. Of course, we have to make sure of that. I have said it before: where the European Union is a market, a currency and a value community, it is also a means of providing stability in an unstable world. Russia's developments and Russia's attitude towards Europe do not contribute to the necessary stability. You've got that all figured out when you talk about these kinds of issues. With regard to the Western Balkans, you can also narrow this down. We made a number of agreements on the perspective in 2003. We have criteria in Europe that we must strictly and fairly adhere to in relation to enlargement, but also to the question of whether you want to include countries in those negotiations at all. We're having that discussion right now. In the case of the cabinet, we also want to stick strictly to that. Hence our reflections on the Commission's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u138	There is also a second question about the conflict between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u139	Oh yes, it has not yet been answered, at least, in the opinion of Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u140	That was the question of whether Brussels could cover the conflicts between itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u141	I didn't quite understand that one. Did Mr Van Rooijen refer to conflicts between themselves in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u142	You may briefly explain him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u143	Or did he mean border conflicts or conflicts between countries that you import when you include these countries in the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u144	My question was whether those conflicts...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u145	No, because we also see that the conflict between Croatia and Slovenia has not yet been resolved. Last night we resolved the dispute between the Netherlands and Germany about Eems-Dollard. In 2014 there was an agreement in principle on this and it was completely formalised yesterday. During the visit of the German President, we signed the signatures together. You do not want to import this type of border conflict, as we did with Germany, but you do not want to import that type of conflict between Slovenia and Croatia and the conflicts that still exist in other parts of the Western Balkans. I see that Mr Asscher's wild imagination is now beginning to take a run at him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u146	No, no, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u147	I think I understand in my own right what this appreciation of the Commission's recommendation by the cabinet looks like. So I get that attitude. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister intends to raise the issue of freedom of the press. But I think there is an opportunity to make it clear to one or more countries in June that there should also be a certain conditionality for other forms of cooperation such as support, the provision of funds, trade, connectivity and innovation. Not in every way, but there are opportunities. The Western Balkans also have a great interest in proximity to the European Union. I would like it if talking about freedom of the press does not, in fact, remain with a very general statement, as was quoted: freedom of the press is important. Any dictator can sign it. I would like it to be made clear from the EU-28, and as far as I am concerned, by the Prime Minister, that it is a condition for the European Union to improve the protection of the rule of law, i.e. freedom of expression, in any form of further cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u148	I'm reluctant there. I followed the debate Mr Asscher had with Mr Mulder. All sympathy for that idea, but I am still reluctant, because we have now made a number of agreements in Europe: how do you deal with countries that want to join, whether or not to start these negotiations, and how do you deal with the accession negotiations? In those cases, all this is foreseen. But do so in all kinds of other forms of cooperation? I can't see that, because then you can talk about trade relations. We currently have trade relations with countries that do not meet our demands in the area of freedom of the press. That's the way it is. I just led a wholesale mission to China. China does not meet our criteria for freedom of the press. We believe that you should trade with China and have a relationship, precisely because that way you can also have a discussion on such difficult issues as human rights. Over the last ten years, we have also been able to develop a structured human rights dialogue with China. So if that's a hard criterion for all other types... I am just trying to find out exactly what Mr Asscher means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u149	I'm not arguing for that. I think Thessaloniki 2003 means that there is a different kind of relationship with those six countries. Somewhere in the heads of the leaders or the people there, at least the idea has emerged that there is a European perspective. And that's what I'm telling you. This means that before negotiations are opened, there is a relationship that is different from the relationship with China. It seems to me, then, in the interests of the local population, and certainly of the young generation, that the European Union not only says 'yes/no, you can start negotiations', but also makes it clear in words and gestures that we expect the rule of law, democracy, to be strengthened. This is a buffer against Russia and Turkey, and it helps to make a fair assessment of attempts to join. So I am not concerned about all relations with all countries, although human rights are always important. Specifically, the Western Balkans deserve greater involvement than only "we'll look into June."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u150	Alone, how do you shape that? The lever for this is: there is a prospect in 2003 and now, as far as the Commission is concerned, two countries are ahead of the start of accession negotiations. We have to judge that now. That's one of those moments when you can say: hey, wait a minute, this is part of the review to be able to start those negotiations at all; does the Netherlands think that this is fulfilled? Then you have a "liver"; you have a leverage. I would like to look in the process before that, between Thessaloniki and the opening or not of negotiations, where the lever is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u151	I will make a suggestion for it in the second term, but I taste a certain willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u152	I understand Mr Asscher's point. We just need to be careful that we... Well, I have some concerns in my head, but before I get them out of here, Mr Asscher might come up with something that's gonna get rid of all those concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u153	Let's hope so. Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u154	Thank you, Madam President. The Prime Minister would prefer to have a later debate on what the European Commission has said about the accession of new countries. I get that. At the same time, he himself, somewhat hypothermia in the UK, has said something about which I would like some clarification. He said that the cabinet cannot be accused of enthusiasm for opening negotiations. I want to understand that. Is this because he thinks those countries are not ready for that? Or is he actually of the opinion that he prefers not to have these countries in the European Union? I think that is important, because when we say that the Netherlands is strict and fair, I have to understand what that is aimed at. Is that'strict and fair' actually aimed at keeping countries away from the European Union? Or does the Prime Minister hope that one day they will meet the criteria, after which they will be able to join the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u155	The second one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u157	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Now to the question of the European Union, the rule of law and the Copenhagen criteria; Mrs Leijten, Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Verhoeven spoke about this. The Netherlands attaches importance to a strong European Union, which contributes to our prosperity and security. If Europe's common values are under pressure, such as the independence of justice or the rule of law, then this can have an impact on the functioning of the Union, on the internal market, on investment, on judicial cooperation and also on the community of values that the European Union is. So that also affects our interests, as a member of the European Union's unity. It is not for nothing that there is a heavy journey under Article 7.1 with the Member State of Poland. Minister Blok is working on this monthly in the General Affairs Council, and of course the first Vice-President Frans Timmermans from the European Commission. We give him our full support in his approach. However, the Treaties stipulate that this should be decided unanimously. A change in the treaty on this point, which is necessary if you want to break the requirement of unanimity, is, of course, not obvious; it does not seem politically likely. The starting point, which the Netherlands is committed to with the other Member States and the EU institutions, is that the basic principles of the rule of law are a natural starting point for compliance with agreements and rules. In this respect, it is good news that the Commission has proposed a link with constitutional principles in the framework of the MFF. This also fits in with Mr Verhoeven's plea in his first term. In addition, the Netherlands is seeking contact with similar Member States to look at possibilities for a peer review mechanism. Mrs Van der Graaf has previously drawn attention to this, and Mr Verhoeven actually advocated this in his third point on a fundamental rights problem for the Member States. As I said, also in response to Mr Verhoeven, full support for the Article 7 procedure against Poland. Also last Monday, Stef Blok expressed his full support for this. This concerns the rule of law and the Copenhagen criteria within the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u158	Mrs Buitenweg, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u159	There has been a discussion on the rule of law for some time now, following a constitutional review which is also being discussed, I believe, within General Affairs. Can the Prime Minister say a little more about how that works now? I know that the Advisory Council on International Questions has also advocated that this should be done a little more. But how does this mechanism play a role in the discussions on Hungary and Poland?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u160	I could give a solid answer to that at the moment. But I know how much public service appreciates that I can be raised even more. So I'll give you that opportunity and I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u161	I'd like to connect with that. The mechanism referred to by Mrs Buitenweg was precisely the point on which a motion was adopted by the Chamber; the Prime Minister just referred to it. So I would like to support Mrs Buitenweg's question as to what is the current situation and what the perspective is. I'd like more information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u162	I'll go into that in more detail, if possible in the first term. Then there's digitization. I agree with Mrs Buitenweg's comment. It's an important subject that's being discussed tonight. In this context, I will also specifically call for a speedy conclusion of the negotiations on the e-Privacy Regulation. Citizens should be able to expect, rightly, that their privacy is well protected. We have to live up to that. I would also like to look forward so that we can give the new European Commission clear objectives. We are also talking about investment in research and innovation. It is crucial for competitiveness. We must also compete with larger parties, countries, the United States and China. For example, in companies that quickly develop market value, the so-called unicorns of more than 1 billion, Europe is lagging behind. We have about 20 at the moment. China has 40 and the United States have 100. The innovative capacity of European industry and the "entrepreneurial" approach and results are therefore, quite simply, inadequate. That is why the subject of disruptive innovation will be discussed this evening. So these are innovations with a potential for growth, but also with a great socio-economic impact. This also means that you have to look at investments over a longer period of time and also at investments with a more uncertain outcome; you don't always know if they will succeed. Think, for example, of artificial intelligence, quantum computers: things that the Netherlands also scores well at. This calls for courage, scale, financial capacity, and we will have to compete with the United States and China in this too. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maeijer referred to the Marrakesh Declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mrs Buitenweg, on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yes, on the previous point, because I think the subject of digitisation and so on has been completed. I do need a little more reflection. How does the cabinet view the lack of truly European data giants and the lack of ideas on how we want to deal with them in the future? I wonder if the Prime Minister is willing to put this in a letter. I came up with the suggestion of European search engines, but there are several options possible. This also has an impact on where, for example, we want to use European development funds at some point. Can the Prime Minister say a little more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u165	I'm gonna find a way to do that the most convenient thing. There are a few means. A separate letter from me on this may also lead to a debate with me on this. I'd love to, but then I'd get into a fight with the relevant trade ministers. Now there are a few means, possibilities. We can see if I can go into the report of this informal Council. Another option is that I will pass on the question to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and ask if it would like to inform the Chamber further. I listened carefully to Mrs Buitenweg in her first term, but I do hesitate to go along with it. Let me not go into it further, but through my head shot a lot of pluses and minuses, pros and cons at her suggestion. So I'd rather do it properly. Let us see if the Council's report is a good means of achieving this. Otherwise, we'll do it through EZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u166	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mrs Maeijer referred to the statement signed in Marrakesh on the Rabat process, at least, it is a statement in the context of the Rabat process. This is a migration consultation that the European Union has been conducting with African countries since 2006. This is crucial to bring migration pressure under control. The Rabat process is one of the forms we are talking about with these countries. It covers the full breadth of the issue of migration, i.e. tackling the root causes, cooperation for return, the fight against trafficking in human beings and legal migration. The whole organ is played there. This broad dialogue is of great importance and is also in line with the letter on migration sent to the Chamber on 29 March. I think that Hungary has not signed up to it, because it has broken through European unity. A country such as Hungary, which is deeply concerned about migration, will have to realise that this kind of thing can only be dealt with multilaterally and in a broad context. Then there is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and in particular the terrible events yesterday in the Gaza Strip. I too, the cabinet is deeply shocked by the high number of deaths. We call on all parties to work on de-escalation. We call on Israel to take proportionate action. Hamas and the Palestinian Authority must ensure the peaceful nature of demonstrations. We sent a letter to the Chamber this morning, which also wrote down what Stef Blok said yesterday in the Chamber, namely that the Netherlands, like many other countries, the European Union and the United Nations, called on Israel to investigate all incidents involving casualties in accordance with international standards. This means that it must be independent, impartial, prompt and sound. If this is discussed at the table tonight, I'll put it out tonight too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u168	I'm gonna take a look at the Prime Minister and see if he's ready at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u169	At the point of Israel and the terrible events, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u170	The Prime Minister says that the investigation must be independent, impartial, prompt and sound. An investigation has now started, but that is an internal investigation by the Israeli army. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, does that satisfy the criteria independently and impartially? If not, will he insist that the European Union should insist on another investigation that is impartial?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u171	My feeling would be that this does not meet the criteria. I'm going to let you give me some official advice on whether you can just jump to that conclusion. So I will come back to that in a moment, but for me it says that it has to meet those international criteria. As far as today's press reports are concerned, too, the Netherlands would have a different position to Ireland, Germany, England and a number of other countries that spoke yesterday about the importance of independent research, I would like to say explicitly that we agree that the research should be independent, including all the other elements. Anyway, I understand Mrs Buitenweg's question about what I think of what is happening now. So I'll come back to that. Finally, in my first term, the Italian government agreement. I have already got into trouble here once by commenting on elements from a cabinet formation that have taken place in confidence. Well, this is a cabinet formation that hasn't even been completed and that takes place in a country other than the Netherlands. Moreover, according to my information, Prime Minister Gentiloni will participate in today's and tomorrow's summits. We also hope and call for the coalition talks in Italy to rapidly lead to a stable government. The challenges facing Italy are great. It is the third economy of the euro area and the fourth economy of the European Union. So it is very important for Italy to have a stable government. Next week, the Commission will present the so-called country-specific recommendations. All Member States will then be assessed at the financial and economic level. The Commission will therefore also examine the Italian budget and the economy. So we get further information from Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u172	Last question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u173	I would like to ask another question about the violence in Israel and the Gaza Strip. I have seen the letter, I have listened to the answer to my colleague's question and I listened very carefully to Minister Blok for Foreign Affairs yesterday. The Dutch Government believes that there should be an independent investigation. But now that has been rejected in the UN Security Council; it has been blocked by the United States. Is the Prime Minister prepared to insist that this independent investigation be carried out by the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr President, I am really disabled here. I have prepared myself for tonight's debate and tomorrow's debate and now I have a question about Gaza. I think it is right that I should answer it, but I do not want to speculate about it now, so I will come back to that in a moment. I would just like to ask the Foreign Ministers what position they took yesterday in New York. I do not want to run the risk of having a different reply from what our ambassador said yesterday. So Mrs Leijten gets an answer. That's actually my short answer. But that comes in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u175	In second term, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u176	Mr President, I understand that the answer has to be prepared, but the specific question is: now the request for an independent investigation, which...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u178	... partly done by the Dutch representation there, has been refused...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u179	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u180	... can the European Union do so? I'd like to hear that answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u181	That's just been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u182	I have two questions. My first question is about Italy. That coalition agreement is just gonna go public tonight. Is the government prepared to give an appreciation of that? I am not concerned with the whole coalition agreement, but if a country were to propose not to repay EUR 250 billion to the ECB, that would be an open declaration of war in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u183	That's question one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u184	That is where interests need to be safeguarded. And two...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u185	Wait a minute. Maybe first I'll ask you this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u186	Yeah, let me get this straight. I don't want to answer that as-dan question. Let's see what they come up with first. To say already "if in that coalition agreement A, we will respond along lines B, C or X, Y and Z," I find a little too far. I think that Mr Omtzigt and I fully agree on what we hope and do not hope for. If at that point we have reason to be deeply concerned about certain things that are happening in Italy, we must find the right ways to respond to them. But I think it goes a little far to agree on the form of the texts, even though we do not yet know what the texts are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u187	The second question, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u188	That will then be a written question when we see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u189	Or perhaps we amaze you and have already responded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u190	It could be. I had asked another question about the payments from European countries and, above all, from the Netherlands to groups in Syria. Can the questions put by the Chamber be answered soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u191	Yeah, we're gonna do our best for that, sure. In the meantime, I have an answer, which is always the advantage if a few more questions are asked about the rule of law. That was a question from Mrs Buitenweg, I thought, which went a little further than my answer just now. Mrs Van der Graaf also referred to the motion on this subject. On the initiative of the Netherlands, there is an annual rule of law dialogue in the Council. This was last under the presidency of Estonia, on the subject of freedom of the press in the digital age. These are thematic discussions. A peer review mechanism is now under consideration in which individual Member States are being examined. The Netherlands is working with similar Member States to look at possibilities for such a mechanism. That is in line with Mrs Van der Graaf's motion. For the summer there is consultation with ten like-minded countries. We hope that this will lead us to do so in the second half of the year, yes, I know, this kind of process is never going very quickly, but you must, of course, be able to put these coalitions on the table and put a concrete proposal on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr. Asscher, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u193	I welcome this proposal and its impact. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it is important to have something that has teeth between the more nuclear Article 7 and such peer review dialogue between like-minded countries? Then you don't have to use the toughest weapon, but you can make countries like Hungary and Poland feel that if they don't stick to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u194	We have discussed this before, I remember, when Frans Timmermans or Bert Koenders was Minister. I see everyone looking at themselves just as glassy. We're gonna check that out, but we looked into it then. I thought it was Frans Timmermans, who indeed said so exactly. He said: either it's nuclear, Article 7, or it's tea; is there anything left in between? I'm gonna look into it and see if any further steps have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u195	Let me put the question as a request to the Prime Minister to argue in informal contacts on this very point that something like this should happen, because it has not happened, despite the fact that the idea has been in existence for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u196	No, exactly, and that's why I want to see why that didn't work out. So I'm gonna let you catch me up on that. For I am inclined to agree with Mr Asscher. I just want to check what went wrong back there, see if I can't get rid of some impossible project. But I feel basic sympathy for his remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u197	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I see all nonverbal movements in the room. A very short five-minute suspension? Then I'll suspend for five minutes, so we'll continue for 13.30 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u198	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u199	A statement will be signed tomorrow. We should not talk about this, but at least the declaration is based on the European perspective that the Balkan countries were already required in 2003. This was about enlargement, a larger European Union. A final decision will then be taken in three weeks' time. Well, then you shouldn't actually sign that statement tomorrow, then you'll have to wait until three weeks. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas European cooperation should lead to the strengthening of democracy in candidate countries;]] [[noting that there has been a deterioration in the democratic system both in some Member States of the European Union and in candidate countries;]] [[considers that providing a European perspective for the Western Balkan countries inevitably leads to their accession to the EU;]] [[calls on the Government not at present to endorse a European declaration of cooperation with the Western Balkans, which is based on support for the "European perspective" of these countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1325]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u200	And then the free press. If there is no free press, no independent journalism, power cannot be controlled, then it is possible that you have democratic elections with a result that is not actually a democratic election because there is no proper counter-power. Then we can describe how important free press is, but then I think we should also play a role in stimulating and guaranteeing that free press. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an independent and free press is one of the foundations of a functioning democracy;]] [[noting that in some Member States of the European Union it is at risk, or even disappeared;]] [[calls on the Government to denounce violations of the freedom of the press within the European Union and to take initiatives to set up and strengthen a free and independent press,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1326]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u201	How does Mrs Leijten see it that the European Union is taking initiatives to set up a free press in Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u202	I ask the government to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u203	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u204	Thank you. No, Mr Omtzigt, we are not going to discuss the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u205	It's very simple. When we had the association agreement with Ukraine, we strengthened the rule of law and strengthened democratic processes. We could ask investigative journalists to support journalists in countries where things are not going well, but I ask the government to take initiatives to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u206	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u207	Mr. Chairman. The right to express your opinion freely, to have access to an independent judge and to have a government that does not pocket the money: that is what matters within the European Union and in the countries around us. I would like to call on the government, in the search for new coalitions and new friends, also in the preparation of the budget, to strive for a coalition for the rule of law. These are countries that want to make progress in this respect within the European Union and those that are seeking closer links with the European Union. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that you should be able to be sure of independent and impartial judges, of respect for your fundamental rights and of equality before the law;]] [[Considering that corruption, authoritarian leaders, lack of freedom of the press and lack of an independent judiciary are still present in the six Balkan countries;]] [[considers that none of the six countries are now ready for EU membership and that mentioning a year is very unfortunate;]] [[expresses the view that no new country should become a member of the EU if it has not been established beyond all doubt that it meets all political criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that you should be able to be sure of independent and impartial judges, of respect for your fundamental rights and of equality before the law;]] [[Calls on the Government to make progress and possible improvements in the area of democratic rule of law, the fight against corruption and freedom of the press leading the level and destination of pre-accessional funds;]] [[calls on the Government to work to ensure that Member States can receive EU subsidies only if they defend democracy and the rule of law in word and deed and fight corruption,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1327]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1328]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u208	I understand the motion very well and find it very sympathetic, but is it not a bit premature? We still have two general discussions on accession and there is another summit. Isn't the motion coming a little too soon, no matter how sympathetic and good it might be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u209	I do not think that the motion in the general consultation will be more or less sympathetic. It is about how we want to try to uphold European principles and European values. It is not about what the government should and should not do about Macedonia and Albania. Then I would have agreed with you. It is precisely because we know that such an informal European summit will lead to better decisions in June that I think this is the right time. So I'm hoping for your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u210	Thank you. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u211	Mr. Chairman. Decisions on the enlargement package will not be taken until 24 June, the Prime Minister said. We can talk about that in advance in the Chamber. Of course, this informal summit in Sofia is a prelude to that meeting in June and so it is absolutely not too early to take a clear position as a Chamber. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission has an enlargement strategy aimed at the accession of all countries in the Western Balkans to the European Union;]] [[Whereas the European Commission proposes to start negotiations on accession to the Union with Albania and Macedonia;]] [[Whereas the added value of these countries' accession to the European Union has so far not been established sufficiently;]] [[whereas the European Union currently needs internal order rather than further enlargement;]] [[calls on the government within the European Council to take the view that accession negotiations with Albania and Macedonia cannot be initiated at present,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1329]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u212	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission has an enlargement strategy aimed at the accession to the European Union of all the countries of the Western Balkans;]] [[whereas the European Commission is currently negotiating accession to the EU with Serbia and Montenegro;]] [[Whereas the added value of these countries' accession to the European Union has so far not been established sufficiently;]] [[whereas the European Union currently needs internal order rather than further enlargement;]] [[calls on the Government to take the position within the European Council that negotiations with Serbia and Montenegro should be suspended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1330]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u213	One motion, Madam President, but I wanted to start with compliments and such. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the commitments, including the commitment that the cabinet will come up with a response to what our European strategy must be to prevent us becoming increasingly dependent on American data giants. I also understand that the Prime Minister will come back to us in a moment to see the internal investigation started by the Israeli army. Is that indeed independent, impartial, prompt and sound? According to GroenLinks, that is probably not the case, but I would like to hear the Prime Minister about that. I would also like to hear what that means for what the EU as a whole is going to hammer on. It is important that more work is indeed done on the rule of law mechanism, as proposed by the International Affairs Advisory Council. This was also the subject of my colleague Mr Van der Graaf's motion as the first signatory. I would very much like to hear more from the Prime Minister. Then I come to my one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the democratic rule of law is under pressure in a number of EU Member States;]] [[noting that there is support within the EU for linking the payment of European money to respect for the rule of law;]] [[Whereas it is crucial for the future of European cooperation to ensure the democratic rule of law throughout the Union;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that EU countries in an Article 7 procedure for systematically violating fundamental rights, respect for the rule of law and democracy can lose the shared control of EU funds to the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow the first summit will take place in 15 years with the countries of the Western Balkans. He is not supposed to be about enlargement and accession to the European Union, but I do not think that many people still believe that. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas further enlargement of the European Union is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to end all (pre-) accession negotiations, not to open accession negotiations and not to agree to further steps towards EU membership of any country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u215	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his first-term responses and for the commitment that the Netherlands will not make a commitment at this Sofia summit to the countries of the Western Balkans on accession or the opening of accession negotiations. That is a clear position, and the Christian Union believes it is important that the government here today has confirmed that the Netherlands is maintaining, strictly and fairly, the criteria for accession, as well as the conditions for starting negotiations at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u216	I see Mrs Leijten as well, but continue. Mrs Leijten will have the floor in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u217	Okay, good. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his explanation of the rule of law and its developments. I have indicated that, in the eyes of the Christian Union, the European Commission's enlargement strategy is actually a reflection of the state in which the Union is currently in when it comes to states of law. Article 7 will now have to prove its worth, but that is a tough option. That is why it is so important that there should be a lighter instrument whereby Member States can address each other on the state of the rule of law. I'm really worried about that. The fact that no procedure has actually been initiated towards Hungary, but also in Slovakia there are still no answers to the journalist who investigated corruption in high levels within the government and who has been shot. We need to talk to each other about that. I am pleased to hear that the cabinet is now working on this and is still in consultation with that leading group of ten countries before the summer. I am curious to see what will come out of that and I look forward very much to the proposal that is coming to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u218	One question. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u219	I would advise Mrs De Graaf to check the answers to the still ongoing investigation into the murder of the investigative journalists in Malta. They came in on Monday and they're extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u220	More.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u221	That is not an initiative of our government to do anything about it. But I would like to ask a question about your satisfaction that there would have been a commitment that no suggestion of talks or accession would be made to the Western Balkan countries. I would ask Mrs De Graaf whether the Dutch Government will be able to sign this declaration. It refers back to the intention of these countries 15 years ago. That was Thessaloniki in 2003.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u222	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u223	That is literally expressed in the statement. And that's actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u224	Mrs. Leijten. The question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u225	... a promise to these countries that they will join.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u226	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u227	How can Mrs Van der Graaf be pleased with the commitment when the declaration is also signed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u228	Mrs. Van der Graaf, I'd like a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u229	I think that this question should actually be asked towards the government. The government has indicated that that statement is under negotiation. I was pleased with the commitment made by the government here in the Chamber today with the words of the Prime Minister that no commitments will be made to the Western Balkans with regard to the opening of accession negotiations or accession in the long term. I have also argued in the first term that it is very important that we do not raise expectations towards the Western Balkans that cannot be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u230	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u231	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister indicated in the first term that he would return to a number of questions about the situation around the Israeli and Gaza borders in second terms, but since this is the deadline for tabling motions, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to support the freezing of the Association Agreement with Israel at the informal EU summit until:]] [[1. stop violations of international law by the Israeli Government;]] [[2. no new settlements are built and the old settlements are demolished;]] [[3. the Israeli Government will stop imprisoning children;]] [[4. the Israeli Government puts an end to the occupation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1333]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, coalition party D66 tweeted: "It is shocking and tragic what is happening in Gaza. The number of injured and deadly victims is almost incomprehensible. Now that Israel is refusing an independent UN investigation, the Israeli ambassador must give text and explanation to Minister Blok." That has happened in Belgium, but not yet in the Netherlands. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that what happened in Gaza is shocking and tragic;]] [[Whereas the number of casualties and fatalities cannot be included;]] [[noting Israel's refusal to conduct an independent UN investigation;]] [[calls on the Government to have the Israeli Ambassador give text and explanations to our Minister for Foreign Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1334]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u233	Mr Kuzu quoted a D66 tweet. I think he's trying to find some kind of support move on our part for his motion. I will never rule out this support in advance, but I would also like to mention the following. It happens quite often in this house that motions are quoted on the basis of texts that have been expressed in other places. Motions in our group are assessed not only on the basis of what is written on Twitter, but on the whole, both on content and, for example, on the basis of the way in which the cabinet is already taking action and a motion could be unnecessary, for example. I would therefore like to inform Mr Kuzu that, as far as we are concerned, these kind of introductions do not say anything about the voting behaviour of D66; not today, not tomorrow and not in the years to come. We're looking at the contents...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u234	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u235	...and not always going to social media and all the other tricks to gain support. And if that support doesn't come up, people are gonna tweet again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u236	As far as I'm concerned, words are worth a lot. This was only tweeted 23 hours ago and it inspired me. What was written there inspired me and it prompted me to draw up this motion together with Mr Azarkan. We're gonna live to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u237	Thank you. Mr Omtzigt spoke on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u238	"No motion?" That's what I hear the Prime Minister asking me when I just walked past him. Mr President, motions will be tabled, but not when the Prime Minister expects them. That's how we generally deal with it. We don't deliver them to order, so let me surprise the Prime Minister with no motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u239	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u240	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his commitment not to make any commitment to the six Western Balkan states to start negotiations, to fix a date or other matters. It is good that the government continues to talk, and it is also good that the Croats are proposing to hold a next summit in two years' time, because once every 15 years, it is not much for neighbors. But there's a lot to be done. In this respect, I have some sympathy for the SP motion on freedom of the press, but in the European Commission's track record on starting the press myself I have some doubts. I'm just really struggling with that. How should a country and how should the Union take these initiatives? I see Mrs Leijten standing at the interrupting microphone, so I believe in entrapment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u241	Yes, because you were not just allowed to ask Mrs Leijten a follow-up question, and that is what you are doing here; basically. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u242	That's how you could interpret it, Mr. Chairman, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u243	I know that sometimes it happens quickly when reading motions, so I will read the operative part again. It says: "calls on the government to denounce violations of freedom of the press within the European Union and to take initiatives to set up and strengthen a free and independent press." So the government does the "discuss" and "take initiatives." The government does not have to do so itself, because we can do so via NGOs or through Free Press Unlimited. We can do that on a huge number of platforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u244	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u245	We can also do it, for example, through the independent journalist platform that is now doing the legacy of Caruana Galizia in Malta. By strengthening that, we could do that. But I think it would be very good if we gave the signal that we would stop taking it if journalists were killed investigating corruption within their own governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u246	I fully agree with the objective. And about the case of Caruana Galizia: perhaps it is not known to everyone, but I run that investigation in the Council of Europe and I am working on it for hours a week, more time than I had ever promised to do in foreign affairs. But it is extremely serious when journalists are murdered within the Union, and... Well, let's just stick to that before I wipe someone out, because I need to keep some independence in that investigation. I await the prompt answer of the questions on support for rebels in Syria. I prefer to receive it within about a week, I say to the Prime Minister. And I was somewhat surprised at the lightness of the answer to the questions on the Italian coalition agreement. The texts circulating on this issue are really a bomb under European cooperation. They are so serious that, if half of them prove to be true, my group will ask urgent questions because this could affect the integrity of the euro area and have a major impact on the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u247	Thank you. Finally, Mr Verhoeven spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u248	Mr. Chairman. Strict and fair. Well, that's what the Netherlands says all the time. Strictly, that is to follow the Copenhagen criteria, very hard and strict. We have lessons to learn from the past, which we must also remember, but we not only have lessons from the past, we also have evidence in the present. That is Turkey, but also Montenegro, countries that are not just admitted to the European Union, quite the contrary. The Chamber loves to talk about that strictly. We can all speak loud and clear about this, and that is what all the groups are doing here today. But the other story is fair. Fair is: giving perspective to progressive forces, to entrepreneurs, to young generations and also to politicians in countries like Albania and Macedonia who really want to reform the country and move forward towards a fair democracy, strong institutions, a true rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. Apart from the geopolitical influence of countries such as China, Russia and Turkey, I believe that the perspective should be to open talks with these countries, i.e. Albania and Macedonia. Take them out of the waiting room, put them along the strict European measuring bar, without accession being a natural outcome at any time in the future. Finally, on the existing Member States, because they are also problems: Poland and Hungary are clear examples. D66 would very much like to see the three things that the Prime Minister has just repeated: proceed with the Article 7 procedure against Poland, start with this fundamental rights act and set all Member States by a measuring bar every year. Finally, ensure conditionality in the budget. If you do not have a functioning rule of law, then no EU money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u249	Thank you. Then I would suggest that we suspend for five minutes, because ten motions have been tabled. Then I'll suspend the meeting until exactly two o'clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u250	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u251	Mr President, thank you. I promised the Chamber that it would come back to the question of whether, for example, there are any intermediate steps between such an Article 7 procedure and the general discussion. I went through it very precisely once more, because we have had this discussion here before in the Chamber. Actually, that's what we're building right now. The Van der Graaf motion, the peer review, is in itself an intermediate step between one another in a general sense to appeal to something and, much more fundamentally, to benchmark each other, to address each other on behavior and to do so collectively. This may lead to further steps if necessary. In the meantime, the Commission has introduced a prior dialogue phase with regard to the Article 7 procedure. Frans Timmermans did that, the first vice president. That's new, too. Therefore, there is a dialogue phase, which Poland has not made sufficient use of before the start of Article 7. There is also a third point, which is partly reflected in the conditionality that the Commission's proposals now incorporate into the MFF in terms of access to cohesion and support funds. Mr Verhoeven and others have also referred to it. The Netherlands has made a plea for this. You comply with the necessary reforms, but also with the rule of law. That is also very strong in the Commission's proposals. My feeling is that in the second half of the year we have to look at how, with those ten like-minded countries, we can come to a conclusion on the Van der Graaf motion. In conjunction with the Commission's pre-Article 7 dialogue initiative, you have, in my view, the initiative based on the Van der Graaf motion plus the discussion that is taking place under the MFF on conditionality, a richer range of instruments than you used to have between "what are you doing?', To speak to each other without consequences, and "here's the atomic bomb." I think we should give that a chance. With regard to Israel, Europe has called for an independent investigation that meets all the criteria. This means for us, but also for the United Kingdom and Germany, for example, that we want to see whether the research that is shaping Israel is actually independent. That's what we want to give a chance to do. A large number of European countries want to give this an opportunity, and they want Israel to carry out an independent investigation. If it turns out that they do not meet the criteria, we will, of course, take further steps in this respect. Which brings me to the motions. The motion in part No. 1325 by Mrs Leijten, I advise. That perspective has been there since 2004. This also provides an answer to the debate on the interruption which Mrs Van der Graaf had with Mrs Leijten. The fact that that perspective was given at the time does not mean anything about starting negotiations or joining countries. It has just been said that the Western Balkans have a perspective. That is completely unrelated to the question of whether you are going to start negotiations and whether you will eventually be able to join. In response to the debate that Mrs Leijten and Mrs Van der Graaf had, therefore, if I may abuse this motion to give that answer immediately. That is always based on benchmarks, both the question "can you start negotiations?', as "can a country join?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u252	I would suggest that you take up Mrs Leijten's other motion before I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u253	The motion in part No. 1326 I do not recommend, because it is really up to the Member States themselves to guarantee freedom of the press. I think that's a lot. Look, we're asking countries to provide freedom of the press. If I were to carry out this motion literally, I would say to a country: oh, you don't meet it, then I'm going to do it for you. That's crazy, so I wouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u254	One question. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u255	I have a question about the statement. If you already have a European perspective and you are making all kinds of agreements, and there is also a huge discussion about opening all kinds of negotiations and joining in 2025, why on earth is it necessary to sign such a statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u256	Because we think it is important to talk to the Western Balkans about connectivity, about jointly addressing a number of important issues in the area of digitisation and innovation, so as to reflect the fact that the Western Balkans are in Europe and that we have provided that perspective at the time. Then you're also looking for cooperation with them. But that perspective is really independent of the criteria based on whether or not to enter into negotiations, let alone accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u257	Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u258	The Asscher/Buitenweg motion in part No. I consider 1327 to be a policy support. It is also one of the criteria for accession, so I can live well with that motion. The Asscher motion in part No. 1328 seems to me to be out of line. It is likely to be resolved if the third recital, or no, is amended slightly. "Asks the government to make efforts to ensure that Member States can only receive EU subsidies" could be made "where relevant." The word "leading" in the second and final operative part could be replaced by "an important criterion." If the motion is modified in this way, I could live with it, but otherwise I would advise against the motion because it would be a little too radical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u259	Then you have the opportunity to change the motion before the votes, Mr. Asscher. At least we're gonna vote next, but are you willing to amend your motion? That's what I want to know. Otherwise the motion will be dissuaded, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u260	I agree with that, but I just need to know the exact wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u261	The first operative part then states that Member States can still receive EU subsidies where relevant. In the second operative part, the text will read "to make the fight against corruption and freedom of the press an important criterion in the level and destination of pre-accessional fees."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u262	I'm going to see if I can take it so literally, but I get both comments from the government, so I'm coming up with a change. I'll present it to you in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u263	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u264	I would like to propose that the Van Rooijen/Leijten motion be put to the vote. 1329 to the general consultation that is planned on this subject, because this is simply not the issue for this summit. I really think that we should have this discussion more widely, because that is precisely what the general discussion is about. So I think the motion is really premature. If the motion is put to the vote now, I would advise her to be procedural, because I think you should have the debate with each other first. So, Mr. Van Rooijen, are you prepared to hold the motion until the ongoing general consultation, undoubtedly organized for that time? That is the question I would like to put to Mr Van Rooijen through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u265	Mr. Van Rooijen, what are you going to do with your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u266	I'll put her to the vote this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u267	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u268	Then I'm really going to dissuade her with some firmness, because I really don't think it's procedurally possible, but I can say that for my part. I would also like to ask Mr Van Rooijen for his second motion, which is the motion in part No. 1330 to hold, but he will not do so. By the way, I'd better tell her off right away. The negotiations are under way. They're benckmarkbased. Opening and closing chapters is based on strict criteria. So there is now no argument to say to Serbia and Montenegro: we stop talking. There's just no reason for that. You're gonna make a real mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u269	It's a close listener. It says "shielded." It doesn't say "stop."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u270	Yeah, but for what reason? Then it must be clear that open chapters are no longer open or that something has happened that makes you say: we cannot go on. Surely we cannot just say 'we are just quitting the talks with Serbia and Montenegro', when we have procedures in Europe? That's very rude, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u271	You can only ask one question, Mr. Van Rooijen. Please continue with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u272	So I'm gonna dissuade that motion. That is regardless of the suggestion for retention, because the judgment "dissuade" will not change at the possible VAO. The Buitenweg/Asscher motion in part No. 1331 I consider to support the policy. We will also wholeheartedly support the Commission's proposal in the context of the new MFF. The Maijer motion in part No. 1332 I advise. Everything is based on strict criteria. The perspective is from 2004; I repeat myself. We just have to settle the process properly here. The Kuzu motion in part No. 1333 I advise. There is now a need for dialogue with all parties. De-escalation and, ultimately, negotiations for a peaceful solution are needed. I therefore advise against this motion. The Kuzu/Azarkan motion in part No. 1334 I also advise against. We'll have to wait for the investigation first. What is needed now is consultation and dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u273	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Prime Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-16-tweedekamer-3.u274	We're going to vote in 15 minutes.
