ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	The debate is now on the plan to pay disabled people less than the minimum wage. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I would also like to welcome the people who are present in the public gallery. They are here this morning to follow this debate. I also understand that there are people who follow the debate in a different way. I hope that everyone will be able to hold back when there is a debate later, no matter how difficult that may be. Speaking time is four minutes. I give the floor to Mrs Voortman as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have been a spokesperson on this subject for many years. In those years, I have spoken to many people who, for whatever reason, encounter a little more challenges in life than you and I do, for example because they are spastic because of lack of oxygen at birth, because they have autism or because they suffer from chronic fatigue due to MS, for example. These challenges are sometimes quite spicy and society does not always make it easier. Inaccessible buildings, festivals that don't include wheelchair visitors, colleagues who don't always understand you: it's not easy to live with a disability. That is why I believe that, as a society, we have a duty to ensure that everyone can participate as much as possible. Every human being has equal rights. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is therefore fundamentally opposed to the instrument wage dispensation. That makes people second-class employees. As far as we are concerned, anyone who works is entitled to the minimum wage, to a pension and to an equivalent position in the workplace. With pay dispensation, you make people dependent on welfare for their lives and shift all the regulatory pressure to a group of people who already have it difficult. That's unfair. I'm not the only one who thinks that either. The Human Rights College also noted that the plan was contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The arguments against pay dispensation were repeated in the round table last week. The resistance is very large, and rightly so. However, this Secretary of State continues to fight passionately for this proposal. That is strange, because its substantive arguments are particularly lean. The Secretary of State says it leads to more jobs. But that is not the case, the Central Planning Bureau has now calculated. If you really want to create more jobs for these people, in addition, it is rather harsh to do so by letting them work under minimum wage and taking their rights away from them. The Secretary of State also says that more work should pay off. But that only applies to people who are single and work part-time. Other people are getting worse, for example people with partners. In addition, the question is whether people with disabilities can work more. They're often forced to work part-time because they can't handle it anymore. Are we going to constantly hunt them down to work even more, when they are not really capable of doing so? Finally, the Secretary of State says that employers want it. But these are only the Hans de Boer employers of VNO-NCW, where this cabinet is slavishly behind. Many other employers are particularly concerned that there are too many regulations now and that it has become too complicated. That does not solve this proposal, because there will even be a regulation. Of the employers who do work with wage costs subsidies, 80% are satisfied. Isn't it much better to improve the current system instead of trading it in for something else? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are going to do three things. First of all, we are taking this miserable plan off the table. It's unfair. No one's waiting for it. And it doesn't solve anything. Secondly, with all the parties involved, we are going to see how we can improve the existing system. Because, yes, it is complicated and bureaucratic and it also needs improvements. But let's take the time to take steps together, because we're doing it for the people who it's about. We're not just doing employers a favor. Let's also look at the bigger picture. GroenLinks has put forward a proposal to shift employers' burdens from lower to higher incomes. What turns out, that's how the Central Planning Bureau calculated? GroenLinks' proposal does provide jobs, some 10,000 even. It also increases purchasing power for low-income people, all of which are budget-neutral. This can therefore be introduced within the current cabinet policy by adapting only this point. The Secretary of State can't argue with that, can he? Does she wish to respond in writing to our proposal? In short, I hope that this proposal will not be continued. As I said at the round table, we all have the same goal. So let us look carefully at how best to do that. As far as we're concerned, that's without a pay dispensation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have just received more than 80,000 signatures from We Standing Up! Countless organizations have united. The call is clear: don't do this. Stop with this pay-dispensation plan, which amounts to wage discrimination. There's a lot of resistance. No one had it in his election program. No one had asked for it, except perhaps the employers of VNO-NCW. So I ask the government: did they whisper it to you? Are any of these memos available? Can we get it? Because we are so curious about the basis of this plan. 'Cause there isn't one. Last week, the hearing showed that there was zero support for the measure: not from the municipalities, not from the interest groups, not from the trade unions, nor from the social employers, nor at all from the people themselves. Amber Bindels of We Get Up! held a glowful argument against wage discrimination. She has wedding plans, but the price is high. 'Cause if she gets married, she's no longer entitled to a pay supplement. So Amber's gonna end up way below minimum wage. Is that what you want? The proposal leads to unequal treatment. The Human Rights College considers that the proposal is contrary to the principle of equivalence and to the Convention for People with Disabilities. On the workplace it can lead to feelings of inferiority, states the college. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. If you have any assets or if you have a partner, this proposal is below the minimum wage. If you are 40% labour-productive, you get €630 at the end of the month. You can't live on that. That's why I'm saying delete that partner and power test. It causes a lot of anger and incomprehension. Do you understand? In addition, employees lose their pension and their WW rights. And then we have the administrative burden. They are easily removed from the employer and icy cold over the fence at the employee. Here we see where the government's preference lies: not with the vulnerable people but with the companies. This is also seen in the fact that this plan cuts EUR 500 million in the case of disabled people and, at the same time, it transfers EUR 1.4 billion to foreign shareholders. There was a lot of talk about that last night. This makes Prime Minister Rutte a reverse Robin Hood: stealing the poor and giving the money to the rich. Mr. Chairman. The most bizarre thing about this plan is that it doesn't create jobs at all. Secretary of State, you're gonna have to come up with something else. We need an alternative that does have support, with labour restrictions fully participating in society. I ask the Secretary of State, please be open to criticism. There are excellent alternatives. Are you prepared to take a serious look at these alternatives? That's all we're asking of you today. We do this on behalf of many.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have been a Member of Parliament for more than one year and I have not spoken before about a proposal that has so much loosened up in society. This debate is about something fundamental: equal opportunities for all to participate. A lot of people have the petition of We Stand Up! signed. A lot of people have concerns. We also had a hearing last week in which many organisations mentioned critical points about this proposal. We, politics, cannot ignore these signals. That's why D66 is asking the Secretary of State today to make a pass on the spot, not to go on at full speed now, but to look around us first and listen carefully to the people who it's about. Let us look together at how we can develop within the given frameworks a proposal that has more support and that should also lead to more work and a system that ensures that work or more work always pays off for people. I shall also table a motion for this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	Look, Chairman, we're just in the middle of something and we're getting somewhere. But I just want to make sure. According to D66, according to Mr Raemakers, pay dispensation is off the table with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	We agreed in the government agreement that we would replace the wage subsidy system with wage dispensation. We also support that agreement. We have also agreed that we will achieve 20,000 additional sheltered workplaces. To this end, the Secretary of State is now drawing up a plan of action. But to answer your question, the agreement that we are going to work with pay dispensation is not off the table. We say that you should listen very carefully to the objections. I will also explain in detail what we got out of that hearing. You have to listen very carefully to the signals. We didn't organise that hearing for nothing. Then you really have to do something with that input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	Now Mr. Raemakers is going back a bit. We seem to be taking a step, but the question is whether we really are taking it. The Human Rights College said last week during the hearing: pay dispensation is pay discrimination. You're putting a whole group behind on that. Does it mean that D66 says that the pay dispensation is going to go away and that equal opportunities for all and autonomy of people are paramount? So there's room at D66 for an alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	There is certainly room for an alternative, within the framework of wage dispensation. The most important point of the College of Human Rights is mentioned in the heading for the conclusion, namely: the right of people to be heard. The Human Rights College says that you should not only listen to people, but actually demonstrate what you have done with that input of people. We think that is the most important thing. This has not been done enough at the moment and should be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	"A pass on the spot," that sounds good. We will undoubtedly read that back on the internet and in the newspaper: D66 is taking the flight ahead. But the key question is: is this a sweetener, is this a dead sparrow or is this really worth something? All the organizations that we heard in the hearing and which we heard this morning say: the core of the plan, pay dispensation or pay discrimination must be dismissed. Now I hear Mr Raemakers saying that it stands. Is it a dead sparrow or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	What I particularly drew from last week's round table is that everyone, municipalities, employers and client organisations say that the current system needs to change. It means too much bureaucracy. It is very complicated for employers and often for employees. With wage costs subsidies, we have so far helped some 11,000 people to work. The task of all of us is to help 100,000 people in business and 25,000 people in government work. That is a huge task. If we take the signals from employers, workers and organisations seriously, then we need to seriously change the rules, otherwise we will not be able to meet the task of more people at work and make work pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u13	I am giving Mr Raemakers another chance, because there are many people who are listening now and who have put their hopes on him. When a coalition party says "take a pass on the spot," that means something. The opposition is about to come up with a motion to move on to an alternative without a pay dispensation, i.e. working under the minimum wage. Because that's what people are angry about. I ask Mr Raemakers for an honest answer. Does he share the opinion of the 80,000 and many others that this is unacceptable and that it should be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u14	I think it is very good to point out that people with disabilities are already working below the minimum wage. These are, for example, people working part-time. Of the people working part-time, there are a number that are now being supplemented to the level of assistance. The strong opinion of the Secretary of State's proposal is that, in the new situation, D66 is only valid for new cases, and that people are improving immediately from the first hour that they are going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u15	We're just getting started, and it's all going wrong. Why is everything all wrong? Because Mr Raemakers says that we need to move on, but that at the moment when it is asked whether that means that the pay dispensation is going to go off the table and he is going to support a motion that says that under the statutory minimum wage is not paid, the answer is simply no. That annoys me, because people with a disability are not campaign material and are not defenseless creatures that you can just go ping-pong with and which you can leave in uncertainty for the next six months or maybe years. That is what is happening. You say "take care of the place," but what does that mean in practice? There will be a proposal in six months' time and you will vote in favour. That proposal is then simply called pay dispensation. My question is as follows. Is Mr Raemakers going to bother to say honestly: pay dispensation is not at all off the table, all we are doing is taking a little longer to introduce pay dispensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u16	I can repeat it, but I may also be able to finish my speech where we see the critical points. I would also like to explain that we are sticking to the agreement that we are going to introduce pay dispensation and that we really think that changing the system is the only way we can help more people to work and the only way we can ensure that an inclusive labour market is created in the Netherlands. Let me give you some figures. In the Netherlands, less than a third of people with a distance from the labour market or with a disability find a job. More than 70% of people without disabilities are employed. The difference between people with disabilities and those without disabilities is almost nowhere in Europe. So we really must dare to change that system. I do agree with Mr De Jong that we need to look very closely at the critical points; I will mention a number of them in a moment. How else could it be otherwise within the current proposal so that we can respond to these concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u17	It's only gonna get worse. Over the back of people with disabilities, those people are just being fooled. Why are they being fooled? During that hearing, it emerged that no one at all believes in pay dispensation anymore, no one at all. No one wants it. The VNG doesn't want it. The employers don't want it. The people with disabilities don't want it. What they want to hear is that the plan is off the table. You're kidding people. What's so bad about this is this. Every time those people come to the House of Representatives. They're putting their hopes on politics. Then it's a coalition guy who says "take care of the place"...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u18	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u19	... and then just go through with the plan. You don't have to convince us that something has to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr. De Jong...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr President, Mr Raemakers does not need to convince us that something must be done to get these people to work, but the point is that no one believes in this instrument at the moment. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u22	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u23	...does Mr Raemakers agree with the PVV that the only thing that would be really good at the moment is to say to the Secretary of State: stop, back to the drawing board, we are not going to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u24	The interruptions must be really short. I know that yesterday the group chairmen did not really set a good example. But I'd be really quick. Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. I didn't really hear a new question. You mention the drawing board. You say that a number of parties say: take this plan off the table. That's right. But there are also a lot of organisations that have approached us over the past few days and weeks and have said: within the existing frameworks we would like to look again at those critical points, what can we do about them? We now respond to this request by saying: yes, let's take a step back, let's let the Secretary of State have a conversation with all these organisations and let's also, if there's a legislative proposal, indicate very well which points we can change. But that absolutely must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u26	It has already been shown that this proposal is not working. So then it makes sense to look at other proposals? I think that's the strange thing about this meeting. 'Cause it's kind of like there's gonna be a discussion with the turkey about how he wants to be slaughtered. But he'll be taken care of. My question to Mr Raemakers is: what is this consultation really worth? Could it be that, at the end of the consultation, it appears that pay dispensation is not the proposal after all, or is it a sham? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u27	I have a number of points, I am about to mention them, which are very important to us. That needs to be looked at carefully. So that's what the Human Rights College says, too. You shouldn't just listen to people, but you should also really show in your proposal how you dealt with the objections. So, as far as we are concerned, that is not a sham speech but a real participation; that is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u28	I repeat my question. Could it be that at the end of that process, in which people will be consulted, it appears that pay dispensation is not the proposal that comes out? Or does this coalition stick tight and rigidly to pay dispensation? Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u29	I cannot, of course, anticipate the consultation which I call on the Secretary of State to have with organizations. There will really have to be broader support than at present for municipalities that have to implement it, for employers, for all civil society organisations, for people who are remote from the labour market itself. There will have to be a broader basis for support, but now sticking to the final outcome would undermine that participation. We think it is so important that there is a real dialogue with the people themselves, that they are really going to be listened to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u30	D66 refers to the College of Human Rights. That was also an important point for us. We also asked the Secretary of State to respond. But I do hear Mr Raemakers draw a very different conclusion from what we draw. Because if we look at page 3 of the letter, it really says that you are obliged to be a state, and it says so in English, so maybe that's the problem with making sure that people with disabilities are not allowed to be paid below the minimum wage. And that they should get all the things you just get when you start at work, so also retire. Can Mr Raemakers insist on saying: pay dispensation is a good rule?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u31	When it comes to retirement, I have a question about it in a moment and I feel quite comfortable with the point made by Mrs Van Brenk. When it comes to the ruling of the College of Human Rights, the College says: a decline in working conditions is only justified if you motivate it so well. The college says: we have a number of concerns, content, and we have the question: is this well-motivated? In the meantime, the Secretary of State has also responded by letter. I thought that was a little thin, so perhaps today the Secretary of State can motivate more in detail how she reflects on that point. But I would also like to say this. For some people, we don't know exactly how many there are. That is not taken away by the College of Human Rights. There's no mention of that either. Perhaps we, as politicians, the Secretary of State, but if you like, also the coalition parties, should better explain to whom this will apply, namely only for new cases. So anyone who now works with wage costs subsidies can also continue to work with wage costs subsidies. Perhaps we should also say that it represents progress for a very substantial part of the group. For some people, it means a decline. I want to look very critically at whether this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u32	This is where tubers are sold for lemons. I'm starting to notice that I'm really excited about it. Because every new contract means pay dispensation. Every new contract, a new contract of employment, a new relationship, means that all those people who were always used to wage subsidies, just move on to pay dispensation. You say that a very large group is making progress. Many more people go backwards: if you have a relationship, if you live at home as a younger person and your parents have income, if you have a home and if you are married; the example was just given. You're going to see that girl who told you so proudly that she was getting married in December, and can you look at her while you say she's getting worse because her partner has an income? You're not telling the whole story here. You don't tell honesty here. Our question really is: can't this pay dispensation be cancelled? Couldn't that be the outcome? Would this, if we took a pass in the place and started talking to everyone again, also be negotiable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mrs Van Brenk says that if you worked with a certain employer and got a new contract there, you would switch from wage subsidy to pay dispensation. I understand as follows, but I'd like to pass on that question to the Secretary of State. I understand that if you stay with the same employer, you can continue to work with labour costs subsidies, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State exactly what this looks like. On Mrs Van Brenk's second point, I would say that this proposal only applies to people with disabilities who have a wage value below 100%. Of course, there are also a lot of concerns for people with disabilities who have a wage value above 100% or 100%. Those people are not covered by the proposal anyway. Maybe that's a good thing to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech, because I was only at the first minute. Let us not forget that last week's hearing clearly indicated that the current regime is not working properly and that we must look for a better working alternative. The main advantage of the headline note is that people working part-time are making immediate progress from the first hour onwards. Many people with a distance from the labour market work part-time. A lot of those people don't pay off now. A number of people therefore already need a supplement to pay. That is an addition to the level of assistance. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. How many people who work part-time are not now above welfare levels? So how many people are receiving two paychecks now? How big is this group compared to the total? And how big will the part of the new influx for which work starts to pay more than in the old situation? In short, how many people are making exact progress with pay dispensation and how many people are going to fall back on what they would have been getting with labour costs subsidies? I say this in this way, because this proposal will only apply to new influxes. Anyone who now works with a particular employer with wage costs subsidy can continue to work with the same employer with wage costs subsidy. My group also has a number of concerns and wishes which we expect to be discussed in the discussions that we really believe should take place. One. From the note it follows that more hours of work hardly pays for partners as a partner or both partners to work with pay dispensation. The only thing these people are improving is the employment discount. But the lower the income, the lower the employment discount. How is the Secretary of State going to make working for this group pay? Two. During the hearing a number of times the position of non-contributory beneficiaries was raised, i.e. Nuggers. For this group, the difference from labour cost subsidies would be greatest. Will the Secretary of State undertake to look again at the position of this group in the drafting of the legislative proposal and to take explicit account of the criticism of the hearing on this issue? Three: people who are going to work with pay dispensation will not be able to build up a supplementary pension. People who now work with labour costs subsidies build up relatively little pension, but €40 or €50 per month supplementary pension on top of the AOW is of course already very important for these people. Can the Secretary of State once again carefully and thoroughly consider whether there is really no creative solution possible to grant these people a pension right? Mr. Chairman. We want the Secretary of State to include these points in the further development of the proposal. As far as we are concerned, this should be done in conjunction with those involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I'm getting a flashback. We were here a few hours ago, too. Then it was about something completely different. Then it was about the dividend tax; a measure as controversial as the wage dispensation. There is a plan and there is a coalition of four parties. We are looking at society and there is no support whatsoever. Yeah, there's support, but it's coming from the Malie Tower. We had a hearing last week, and it has just been mentioned about the pay dispensation. Turns out what? All organizations, the people of We Get Up!, say it: we do not want that pay dispensation. One party wants it, and that's the Malie Tower. That's Hans de Boer. Then you take a step back in time. At Rutte III's presence there is a proud Prime Minister in Box K. He says: we do it with four parties, 76 seats, but we go to society with an outstretched hand. We go to the opposition with a hand out of hand. We go with a hand out to all those organizations who want to talk to us about the plans. What turns out to be months later? There's a lot of criticism about pay dispensation, which is pay discrimination. So far, it turns out that the outstretched hand isn't worth anything. Today's big question, and I only have one, is: is this coalition really going to pick up that outstretched hand, from all those parties and above all from the people themselves? Is that what the Cabinet's gonna do? Is that what the Secretary of State's gonna do? Is the outstretched hand really worth something? People, we are talking here about a major measure and a major cut-off, which is hitting people with disabilities hard. Then I hear D66 say: we do not make until the place. Then I'm happy and a lot of people here are happy. But what is it worth until the fundamental point of all these people is: we are fully part of it, we do not want a supplement and we do not want to spend the rest of our lives on benefits? They say: we want to participate fully. We want a real job, retirement, WW-building and protection in the event of illness. We're not half employees. Today's big question is: are these parties going to be able to take a look at the Christian Union, at D66 and at the Secretary of State, ready to really listen to that big, legitimate criticism from society and the justified criticism from all those parties that say: it can be different? It would be what if pay dispensation was the only alternative and the only plan. Then we have another debate. But it's not. All these parties are the municipalities, the employers, Cedris, the people of We Rise! The social partners themselves say: there are alternatives. That's not gonna hurt the employees. In doing so, they have a full existence and we relieve employers. That's a win-win situation. That is today's crucial question: is it an ideological battle of the Malie Tower and in particular the VVD to do so and hit people? Or do I find here four parties and a cabinet that really say: we want to listen to society and pick up that outstretched hand? For I say, and the Labour Party says on behalf of all those people: do not do this! Pick up the outstretched hand and come up with a real alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr Van Dijk asked me, or at least D66, a question twice, so I am happy to answer that. The answer is yes, we take that outstretched hand. But there's something else I want to say. Mr Van Dijk pretends that the PvdA has something fundamental against pay dispensation, but in the previous government agreement, that of the government of VVD and PvdA, says: we are going to go to a system of pay dispensation to give people more chance on the labour market. In the end that has turned out differently, okay, but I think that the PvdA should not pretend to be fundamental against it itself, because that is wrong. I also have a question for Mr Van Dijk. You are quite right to mention pensions. I have just asked this Secretary of State about this. The former Secretary of State, Jetta Klijnsma of the PvdA, has decided whether it is not possible to arrange a pension for this group. Mrs Klijnsma's answer was no. Is Mr Van Dijk prepared to ask this Secretary of State with me to do one more good study of these pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u39	Here again comes the Hague game around the corner, where many people have no message at all. They want to hear today: is the pay dispensation off the table, is one prepared to look at a real alternative? What did Rutte II do? They had all kinds of plans, but they said: we are going to talk to society, even more so, we are going to talk to social partners, we are going to make a social agreement. Haven't seen Rutte III do it yet. What came out? Wage subsidy based on: everyone is full, everyone builds up a full pension, everyone participates in a collective agreement. So that's off the table. When it comes to pension-building, there is an important condition for me, namely that people with disabilities should also be included in a collective agreement. That's the difference. What Mr Raemakers does not mention is that pay dispensation is a lifelong benefit. With wage costs subsidies you fully participate in a collective agreement with a supplement. That is the path we must take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr Van Dijk pretends that Rutte III is going to do something different than Rutte II, but my appeal is that this cabinet should also do what the previous cabinet did, namely to engage very well with municipalities, employers and all kinds of organisations. I would like to highlight another point. We had a hearing last week, and even the VNG said it was Arjan Vliegenthart of the SP.... that what needs to be seriously changed to the current wage wage subsidy system. I ask Mr Van Dijk: what would you like to change about the system? I don't care what we call the bug: labour costs subsidy, pay dispensation or any other name that doesn't call it polarization. I'm willing to think about that. I ask Mr Van Dijk what he wants to improve the system so that the goal, more people at work, will succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u41	Maybe we're gonna get somewhere today after all. I am not asking the coalition and the Secretary of State for nothing for an alternative. The UNG and many others have also mentioned this. We can come up with alternatives that allow people with disabilities not to be in a benefit situation, but simply to fall into a collective agreement and simply to build up all the rights properly, while at the same time reducing the burden on employers. Wage subsidy in this model is not sacred to the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr. Chairman. A great deal of attention has been paid to the main letter sent to the Chamber. Last week's round table also raised additional questions that cannot yet be answered, as the answers are part of the next steps in the process, a process that needs to be followed carefully and involving, in addition to interest groups, the target group itself and the employers. These are people with disabilities who want to get to work, but who need support. That's what the VVD's about. We want to give as many people as possible, including those with disabilities or those who need a sheltered working environment, the opportunity to participate. And work is part of it. Then, of course, it is of the utmost importance that there is also work, that there are jobs. It is the large companies and SMEs that provide these jobs. The many meetings I have had in recent years show that the business community is keen to offer these jobs to people with disabilities. Only, because of the many regulations they no longer see the forest through the trees. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State proposes simplifying the rules for employers, because finding a job starts with offering jobs. Mr. Chairman. As I indicated at the beginning of my speech, this main direction shared by the Secretary of State needs to be further developed. For the VVD it is important that work pays and that more work pays. In the case of labour costs subsidies, people only pay to work if they are working for more than three and a half days. This is precisely what is not possible in many cases for people with disabilities. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many people currently working with labour costs subsidies are still dependent on additional benefits at the moment? The average number of hours someone works is about 24.5 as far as I'm aware. According to the graphs, you're not above the social minimum. Is it true that in the proposal before us it pays to get to work? What about any incidental benefits you get as an employee? Mr. Chairman. The VVD supports the Secretary of State's plan, in which it states that the hours worked are supplemented to the statutory minimum wage. I would like to hear whether she can already give a cautious outline of how the remaining resources can be used between the extra sheltered workplaces, should that be needed, and the additional support that municipalities can provide to support people with disabilities to work. Finally, Mr President. I am well aware that the present proposal involves two sources of income and that this can be difficult and complicated. Moreover, this may also occur in the current situation. In the past period, it has been fairly certain that the people themselves must go to the municipality to apply for a supplementary benefit. But that's true, that's how I'm asking the Secretary of State. It seems to me that municipalities can play a proactive role here, but above all they must also play a proactive role. This promotes the provision of services to stakeholders and also helps to make a match between employer and potential candidate. I would like to receive confirmation from the Secretary of State that, in the further development of the legislative proposal, she takes into account the complexity and feasibility, precisely for and in the interests of the people involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u44	Much attention to the bureaucratic side of the story, but what I don't hear is the principleal side of the story, which is that you create a difference between employees. Suppose you have two MPs, one is married and the other isn't, and the MP who's married, we give less pay. We'd think that was unfair, wouldn't we? Then why should we do that to disabled people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u45	In the proposal before us, it is important to me that we give people a better chance of getting a job. You are now comparing two systems, wage costs subsidies with the proposal now before you. I prefer the comparison between people who do not get a chance at the moment because the jobs are not offered, who are on the couch if they are already receiving benefits, and people who, if they get the chance at work, will notice at least from day one in their pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan does not go into my example of those two MPs who are paid one less because he is married. I think that makes it clear that these equal rights are of secondary importance for the VVD. What does that mean for basic conditions that we have here, such as minimum wage? If we are going to do this for disabled people, are we going to say to other groups that the minimum wage no longer applies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u47	The VVD stands for equal opportunities. I would like to promote these opportunities with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u48	I had hoped that Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan would have said 'equal rights' after 'equal opportunities', but that might have been difficult. I do understand, however, that attention is being paid to bureaucracy, as was the case at the hearing last week. We need those employers for those jobs. Perfectly correct. But is the VVD open if we can arrange this in a different way than with pay dispensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u49	The VVD strongly supports the proposal as the Secretary of State has now shared with us. I have said that it needs to be further worked out. In the choices you then make about how you're going to implement that dispensation, there may be some buttons you could turn on, but the main line, pay dispensation, we just support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u50	It looks like there's one of those practice cars with one of those dolls in it: I'm just driving straight up against the wall and I can see. There's a very broad public debate, I assume you've also seen that ad in the newspaper, and everyone is saying, "Don't do that pay dispensation." Employers also say that if it can be arranged in a different way, we agree with it. Are you open to that? There is an eye for bureaucracy, but can this be done in another way? Do we have you by our side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u51	I'm repeating myself. I indicated in my speech that I think it is important that we involve those involved in the further development of the proposal. There's no ready-made bill yet either. They're acting like we don't want to listen to anybody. I don't think that's the case. We had the hearing last week. I've also heard the concerns people have. The question is whether all concerns are justified, because in the course of the development of a legislative process you will also be faced with choices that you can say yes or no to. A lot of assumptions have been made. In the course of the process, these assumptions may not prove to be so definite. For example, I also asked the Secretary of State about shifting this bureaucracy, because a lot of people say that with pay dispensation you shift all administrative burdens towards the person concerned. My question is: is it? I just want to point out that we are now at the beginning of a trial. A process that the VVD also says is important to involve everyone involved, to see if we can also understand each other's views and whether the theories that everyone has dug into are so logical. A lot of assumptions have been made. I think it is a good thing that the Secretary of State is and remains in dialogue with all the parties involved and with the target group in the upcoming process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u53	That is what she has done in the run-up to this outline letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u54	I interrupted you because the answers, as well as the interruptions, must be short. Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. Then I will go to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In front of us lies the headline note sent by Secretary of State Van Ark to the Chamber. It is a first draft of the coalition agreement, but not yet a legislative proposal. It sets out the broad lines that need to be further developed. The CDA has always said to assess the note, the following notes and even the final bill, on the basis of five criteria. In order for employers to employ workers with disabilities, it must be simple for employers, first of all. Secondly, it must be rewarding. And if workers are to be employed successfully, this must be really rewarding for workers, third, and, fourthly, not too complicated, of course. Finally, the people employed by any scheme should not be harassed by a change in conditions. Along these five criteria, the CDA assesses the note and the CDA puts all the effects along that measuring bar. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Chamber held a hearing on the issue of pay dispensation, and that was an interesting and educational afternoon. In any case, the conclusion is clear: the theme is alive and all parties have the same objective, namely to help people get to work. For, Mr President, I would like to make it quite clear that this is not happening at all. If there's ever been a time to get people to work together, it's now. If it doesn't work now, it's never gonna work. And that is completely unacceptable to the CDA. Mr. Chairman. The hearing also made it clear that almost all parties actually share the CDA criteria. In fact, everyone agrees on the fact that it has become very complicated for many employers to employ people, especially when you are dealing as an employer with different municipalities and different regulations. And everyone actually agrees on the fact that working should pay off. One may have objections to the means of payment dispensation, but friend and enemy will agree with the CDA that every hour worked will pay in any case. And friend and enemy will agree with the CDA that pay dispensation is at least easier for the employer than the current wage subsidy schemes. But, Mr President, the CDA has serious questions about whether pay dispensation does not make it very complicated for employees. In other words, if employees were to be covered by all the rules that the Welfare Act, the Participation Act, brings with it as it is now, that would simply be the case. That is why perhaps a motion on this subject in the second term, and now at least a few questions. Firstly, is the Secretary of State prepared to consult with municipalities to develop a regime for people with a permanent disability comparable to those who work with pay dispensation through the Wajong? Mr. Chairman. During the hearing, several parties indicated their desire to depoliticise the issue of pay dispensation and to cooperate in order to arrive at rapid and practical solutions. Is the Secretary of State prepared to facilitate such consultation and proceed with it? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Outside the hearing, I've been calling in the last few days asking around. I've received several people, too. The main point remains that everyone has the same goal: to help people work more than they do now. It is quite clear to me that if we continue to do so in this way, we will not be able to do so. The CDA is and remains in favour of dispensation, but wants it to remain easy for employees to get to work. In the words of Mr Dannenberg of Divosa, the aim of the welfare regime is that people should flow out of assistance, but will not flow out of a handicap. For now there is work to be done, for the Secretary of State and hopefully for some 100 000 disabled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u56	Has Mr Peters not forgotten something? He just received a petition downstairs, and he did a hell of a job doing that. He spoke on behalf of all of us and there he received over 80,000 signatures from We Standing Up! He said: thank you, we will convey the message. But I just heard you say that for the CDA, pay dispensation is still standing. But, Mr. Peters, the message from the petitioners was correct: with that pay dispensation. Why did you forget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u57	That's a nice question. First of all, you take my words straight out of context, Mr. Van Dijk. I told the ladies who said we should talk to them, not them, that I would convey the message. I just did that in a question. So that was one. Then I will also convey the other message: Secretary of State, those who offered the petition do not want a dispensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u58	I would almost say: can you say that a little louder, because it didn't come out very hard. Anyway, clear. I have also heard that the young people of the CDA have said very sensible things. They too say, "Stop it." Wisdom comes with the years, but sometimes the youth has just seen it a little bit sharper as far as I am concerned. Listen carefully to the CDJA. Mr. Chairman. Now the CDA also says: do you want to go in consultation with all those people to see if the plan can't be changed? D66 said something similar. So hope is now being created, expectations are being raised. Is that a sweetener, is that a dead sparrow or does that really have something to do with it? Do you respond to the main objection of all those who say: we do not want to be treated as inferior; we want to be treated as full? Can you guarantee these people that the pay discrimination contained in the current proposal will end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u59	What I have said, and I will repeat in a moment, is that I would like the Secretary of State to meet them by talking to people, not people, in order to achieve a working method and very simple rules for people who work with pay dispensation, similar to the way people do with the Wajong now. I also listened very carefully at the hearing. I've listened to why people are against it. Of course, it's nice to say they don't want it. They have read a headline note, which of course is not a legislative proposal, and have come to the conclusion: I have an important problem; this may become very complicated for people who work with administrative and other burdens and pass the regime on to people. I've heard those concerns. I think it's very important. That's why I'm asking that question. That is not a sweetener for me; that is a condition. I said in advance that there are five criteria along which the CDA is going to make this future legislative proposal. One of them is that it should be rewarding for workers and not too complicated. That's exactly what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u60	I'd better get on with this, because this isn't half hope; this isn't hope. The fact that workers who are going to work with pay dispensation end up in all kinds of benefit situations and hassle is an effect of introducing pay dispensation. Organisations and people themselves said this morning: we would like to turn around, but then we want to talk about an alternative where we can participate fully. What's full? I would be happy to give that to Mr Peters. That's that you're in a collective agreement, you're building your pension, and you're building up WW. That's full participation. That is not the effect you will eventually have by introducing an unholy measure. So my question to the CDA is: having a conversation is nice, but is the CDA really willing to listen and put down a real alternative that doesn't have the effects of pay dispensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u61	Listen, Mr. Van Dijk, I'm not the Secretary of State. I'm here to assess the plans. I'm judging a keynote right now. That is the main note I am reviewing along the five criteria I have just mentioned. I have questions about one of those five criteria, and I ask the Secretary of State to discuss them very strongly. I believe that this is right to two of the most important points that emerged from the hearing: one, talk to me and not to me, and two, come to a way of working which is appropriate, of course, also in the words of Mr Dannenberg of Divosa. I have heard GroenLinks; they may also come up with a plan, then I will also assess it along those criteria. But this is the way I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u62	But this listens very closely. Mr Peters of the CDA says: I would like to have a conversation, but in the end I want to see how that works out along those lines of the CDA. And one of those lines is pay dispensation; I heard that right. Or is it true that I have misunderstood or misunderstood Mr Peters that there is a politician here, a MP who has not only to judge pieces, but above all has his own opinion and has heard many people, who bravely says: I am prepared to look at a real alternative, and then nothing is sacred?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u63	No, Mr. Van Dijk. We have a proper government agreement, which states that we work with pay dispensation. I've got it right here. That's not for nothing. I support that, too, because I think it's working. I listened carefully to what the objections would be from the hearing. One of these concerns is that the regime under which people have to work may not be properly looked at. Those are criteria I have myself. I have to look at that. I urge the Secretary of State to do so. I think that was the objection. If you're not married to a term, then neither am I, but it's not about what it's called; it's about how we work. I believe that this way of working is good for criterion one. It's easier for employers. We can find anything we want. We can think that's not important, because they should do it differently. You don't say that, but I'll fill that out. It must be easy for employers. It has to be rewarding for employers. Otherwise, they just don't hire people. Whatever we think about it, people don't get hired. If there's ever a time to do it, it's now. I think this meets those two criteria. The third criterion is that it must pay for workers. I've read the Secretary of State's papers. In my view, the net yield is more than in the other situation, in almost all cases. I think that's important. I am not going to go over that; that is what I am calling here and I have questions about it, because I do not want it to be complicated for employees. I do not want them, for example, to work within the regime with a job application obligation or something. That's weird. I'm just asking to talk to and not about people to come to what did we just call it literally again? A working method and very simple rules for people who work with pay dispensation, similar to those for people from the Wajong. I think that's what you're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u64	Last week we had a hearing. That's where some people came to me. They knew you, and they said, "This couldn't please René Peters, could it? It is and was such a social alderman."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u65	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u66	Compliments, Mr Peters, but now you are saying: it is in the coalition agreement and we are not going to deviate from it. If it turns out something's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong. It's no good, and the Central Planning Office says this doesn't create any additional jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u67	Mrs Van Brenk, first of all thank you for conveying the compliments for my successful aldermanship. That's great! I've been trying to keep up that way of working, even here. Please look at the contents. I'm not talking about a form or a word. That is why I mentioned those criteria. It has to be rewarding for employees and it has to help. If it doesn't work, it doesn't work. That's easy. I'm judging a bill on that, and I'm judging that text on that. It must also be simple for employees. That is why I would like to say once again that I think Divosa's greatest objection and perhaps the VNG too was that at least Divosa's voice was that we should talk to people and not talk about them. Let us come together to create a working method and very simple rules for people who work with pay dispensation. It's possible. That's just so good. Take the best of those two worlds. Tell them this is good for employers, because it's easy, or else those people will not be hired, and it's rewarding for employees. So let it be easy for employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mrs. Van Brenk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u69	I would have liked that social face to be pushed through. You can fall off a very high pedestal. The question is this. There were problems with bureaucracy in particular. Can the CDA be open to solving this problem in a different way now than with pay dispensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u70	I have heard that question from four people three times. I will say it again: the CDA has a coalition agreement and it says that we are working with pay dispensation. The proposal before us is a first development of wage dispensation. I have said that I will pay attention to this on the basis of those five criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u71	You don't have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u72	No, I don't have to repeat them, but then the question shouldn't be repeated over and over again, because then, of course, I'll keep repeating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u73	We had a hearing. A number of points have been raised. One of these points is: talk to us and not about us. But that is not entirely new; that has been asked for years. Mr Peters says that he has listened to it and looked at it, that he would like to ask a few more questions to the Secretary of State and that she has to deal with it. But one of the points why you wrote this down in the coalition agreement is that you all want to realize extra sheltered workplaces. At the moment, the current assignment is certainly not being reached. Does Mr Peters agree with me that we need to agree to meet this earlier objective before we come up with new objectives again? If you share that with me, then this measure is not necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr. De Jong is right: if you ever want to realize a lot of sheltered workplaces, you're gonna have to start at the beginning. Even now we have far too few. I believe that Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party has tabled a fine motion for this. It says how this might be possible. Is there anything we can do with these criteria? Is there anything we can do about congregations? 'Cause they're gonna have to do the same thing. Will we perhaps have to do something with the flexibility of new workers? We're all open to that. You are now referring to something that may perhaps be on the agenda in 2050. We really estimate that many people are there; we know that, statistically speaking, and you know that now, for whatever reason, cannot work but be sheltered. I want to get these people to work, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u75	My point is this. This measure was taken to save EUR 500 million. That's just what's going on. Then it is said in the sales talks: we are going to create 20,000 additional workplaces. The point is that the previous target of 30,000 is not met. The target per year is not met; less than 800 people have been placed. That's good for those 800 people, but it's not enough. Now a new task will come up. Again, my question to the CDA is: if you think for a moment, would it not be wiser to meet those previously set objectives before setting an additional target? If Mr Peters does not want that, it is simply an antisocial austerity measure of EUR 500 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u76	It's not even a austerity measure, let alone an antisocial one. We're just gonna take more people to sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u77	Does Mr Peters mean by the criterion he just mentioned, namely that it must be rewarding for employees, that a new system cannot, by definition, lead people to decline? Secondly, does he mean by the criterion that it should be easy for workers to have a new system at least if this means that it becomes more difficult for people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u78	That is a real question. On the first point: I want to see if it is rewarding. Of course, I can see hundreds of statistics in terms of their effect. I have seen those documents from the Secretary of State which show that it is worthwhile for a lot of people, for one just a little more, for the other just a little less. That's what it's all about. But the principle is: work must pay and every hour worked must also pay more. That is the principle and the starting point. If I say that this is sacred to me, you will soon find a group of perhaps ten people to whom it does not apply. Then you would hang me from that and tell me that I should get rid of that whole measure. We're not gonna do that. But the principle must be: work must pay and every hour worked must also pay more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u79	So Mr Peters does not rule out the possibility that there will be people who are going to get worse as a result of this proposal. Nor does he deal with the bureaucracy it produces for employees. This also means that he takes into account that it is becoming more difficult for people. This leaves only the criterion "it must be rewarding for employers." Then I wonder: is it really worth wasting the right to the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u80	I think this is a wonderful debate trick by Mrs Voortman. You can't do this. What you're doing is very funny. You ask me, can you rule out one person being something else? Then I say, but in other words, no, I cannot rule that out. Then you say: you don't rule out people going backwards. That's a nice trick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u81	It's true, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u82	Well, leave it alone. The second is about bureaucracy. I say this very clearly: if it is not easy for employees to do so, it will not work. So that's what I'm going to judge it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u83	Thank you, Mr. Peters. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's start with our final conclusion. And because the power of the message is in the repetition, we will definitely end up with it. 50PLUS wants the proposal of pay dispensation for people with disabilities off the table. The Secretary of State is asked to solve the problem of bureaucracy for employers in a different way, because the broad support for wage dispensation is lacking. Only the employers' dome is in favour. We do not think that is a good thing. We would point out that in 2015 it was precisely the desired broad consensus that made it possible to opt for wage costs subsidies. For us, it is significant that 80% of employers who work in practice with wage costs subsidies are satisfied. The main objections of 50PLUS to the present cabinet proposal are, in summary, the following. With pay dispensation, you leave vulnerable people permanently with one leg in the welfare system. There will be no question of full employment. This is at odds with the inclusive labour market and is also morally wrong. You create vulnerable workers, who build fewer pensions and fewer social security rights and will be less economically independent. Large groups do not even receive a supplement through the assistance. Administrative burdens are thus not solved and addressed, but shifted from employers to vulnerable workers, municipalities and other performers. The savings of 500 million in structural terms, a great deal from the working conditions of vulnerable people, offer little or no prospect of more employment. And not least: pay dispensation is contrary to international human rights and disability treaties and results in unequal treatment and unequal pay. It is unworthy of a civilized and prosperous country. Mr. Chairman. If the cabinet wants to create jobs with pay dispensation, then we have a question: is there any idea of the net employment effect of pay dispensation? The Central Planning Bureau calls these effects "little." Well, that's got to give you some thought. Cedris makes concrete proposals to reduce bureaucracy and make things easier, such as applying a residence principle. What does the Secretary of State think of these suggestions? Is she willing to take a serious look at this hand-out? Mr. Chairman. During the hearing, Mr Vliegenthart indicated on behalf of the VNG that greater uniformity and streamlining in this area would be sensible. We must therefore ask ourselves whether far-reaching decentralisation has not taken us further away from creating a single manageable system for the so-called bottom-up of the labour market. Isn't that the main purpose of the Participation Act? Is the Secretary of State prepared to watch this with the VNG? 50PLUS considers it to be fundamentally incorrect to treat people with disabilities who work according to their assets as welfare recipients who earn additional wages. Finally. 50PLUS wants the proposal of pay dispensation for people with disabilities off the table. The Secretary of State is asked to solve the problem of bureaucracy for employers in a different way. Go find an alternative. Look for broad support. As far as we are concerned, this cannot be pushed forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Then Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Chairman. A large proportion of people with disabilities do not participate in the labour market. They often want very much and can also make a very valuable contribution, but equally often they run into incomprehension, complex procedures and red tape. It is important that we do everything we can to get this group of people to work. That is why the Christian Union supports the intention and purpose of the Cabinet to ensure that as many people as possible with disabilities can work. It is good that at this early stage we have an exchange of views. This offers the opportunity to talk to each other now about the underlying principles and the direction we want to take. Because if you get social security, you get people. I therefore think it is important that we have a clear picture of the consequences of the proposals before the legislative proposal is drafted. The Christian Union wants to contribute to an inclusive society, but it must do so in a social way. We support a number of principles in the plan, for example the commitment to helping people who are still at home, the fact that existing contracts remain valid, the fact that working is going to pay with every hour you go to work and the effort to make it as simple as possible for employers to employ people with disabilities. That's fine. But as I said, I also have a lot of questions. How many people who now work with labour costs subsidies are already receiving additional benefits from the municipality? How many people are already building up supplementary pensions with labour costs subsidies and how many are not? Are they or are they not getting above the franchise? Are there ways to ensure that these people will also be able to build up supplementary pensions with pay dispensation? Mr. Chairman. There's gonna be 20,000 more sheltered places. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the funds actually reach the target group and that it is not spent by the municipalities on pavements? It is difficult to estimate in advance whether this plan will actually employ more people with disabilities. Are you sure it's gonna be simpler? That is really the condition for it to work. Is there not, in fact, a new category and a new regulation being re-established? How do we make sure this stays clear? How's the secretary gonna monitor this? That is what I asked for in a motion for a resolution on the budget. How do we ensure that the administrative burden does not shift from employers to this vulnerable target group? It cannot be the intention to burden these people with any more red tape.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u87	Mr. De Jong, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u88	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I hear the honourable Member of the Christian Union say that there will be 20,000 additional shelters. But the current target of 30,000 is not being achieved. Then where does the Christian Union get these 20,000 coming from? In doing so, the Christian Union is condoning the introduction of pay dispensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u89	That is exactly the next point in my text. I am very concerned about the fact that the municipalities are simply not doing their job. They deserve a big kick under their butt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u90	And that of a ChristianUnion chamber member!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u91	Their ass, their buttocks, Madam President. Okay, I have some coulance with the municipalities because decentralisation came towards them a few years ago. We should also give them the opportunity to settle it now and get it really working. But I hear, in particular, from entrepreneurs, including Christian Union supporters, that they want to help these people to work, but cannot find them. These people are sitting on the couch and not in the municipal system. What the municipalities have to do is look these people up, do customization, stop ticking and look people in the eye and say, "We're gonna help you get to work." The entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, the social entrepreneurs who want to do so, must be put into their power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u92	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u93	There's an adopted PVV motion from a few weeks ago that says the municipalities should do it. But the point here is that these are all questions that could simply have been asked during the negotiations. How many people do they have or do not have retirement? How many people are covered by the collective agreement? What exactly is it about? Is this what employers want? Those are all things you can just ask for during the negotiations. Apparently, that didn't happen. What has happened is that a cut of EUR 500 million has been entered. So again, when it's said that the municipalities are kicked under the... how do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u94	Bips, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u95	Bips, yeah. I hear people laughing again, but it's not funny at all. Because then they're hollow phrases. Why? Because there is no mandate from the Christian Union to say, for example, to the Secretary of State: take this back, do not leave this to the municipalities anymore, but take it back. That's not a part of it. So I'm gonna ask my question again. Wouldn't it be wiser to focus first on the first objective of that 30,000? Let's do everything we can to make that happen. Then we put away the extra 20,000, which is a cut of EUR 500 million, and we give certainty to all those people who now have no job. Could the Christian Union go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u96	The Christian Union does not just want to be a voice for those with disabilities who are in the labour market. The Christian Union also wants to be a voice for those who sit at home on the couch, who want to work, but do not get to work and are not even in the municipal system. I agree with Mr De Jong that the municipalities really need to get to work here. In fact, I believe much more in the entrepreneurs than in the municipalities in order to achieve this. I'm going to give homework to the Secretary of State, a lot of homework. One of the things that needs to be settled is that those 20,000 workplaces that are now ensuring that it is not a cut-off, but that the money remains available to the target group, are now actually going to happen. For the Christian Union, this link is important, because we are not going to cut down on this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you for Mr Bruins' sharp question to the Secretary of State. A possible alternative has just been mentioned several times. That was also stated in the hearing. We need to make sure that we relieve employers, but not put it down to employees. That's what Mr Bruins says. This could mean that there will be a whole new system of subsidies. Is Mr Bruins prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u98	I fully agree with Mr Van Dijk that this system, the new system, is already going on with Wajong, at least when it comes to pay dispensation, must be super simple. That should be very simple. This target group is already faced with an enormous amount of administration for surcharges, discounts and sometimes debt relief and poverty reduction. They already have so many papers to fill out. If there is more paperwork and more red tape, it will be a very big problem. At the same time, as I say to Mr Van Dijk through the President, the Christian Union has signed the coalition agreement. He knows as well as I do that this measure was not in our election programme. He knows the pass-through of Choices in Map. He also knows the relationships at the negotiating table. For us, it is important that we have retained the resources for this target group in the sector and that there is an agreement for 20,000 sheltered workplaces. In doing so, we take responsibility for the fact that we have signed up. This means that the work will take place within the framework of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you for Mr Bruins' honest and clear words. The people in practice say that we can't even fill the 30,000 we've already agreed on, let alone the 20,000. If an alternative is sought, it could mean that the result is that we are not filling out those 20,000 workplaces, but perhaps spending them on the whole target group. That is what Mr De Jong of the PVV said. Is that also a possible outcome? Because I know that during the negotiations the Christian Union was right to argue for people in a sheltered workplace. But if we really look at an alternative, it could create space and we're going to spend it differently. Is that space also present in the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u100	I thank Mr Van Dijk for this question. The Christian Union is looking for helping as many people as possible to work in the most social way possible. At the same time, we know that these are two elements. Then you have to put a little sign in there and then there's a budget coming out. I really have to wait for the Secretary of State to draw up the plans. How does the Secretary of State intend to make this system as social as possible? The Christian Union is at the wheel of the coalition as a co-responsible party. So we really have to wait and see before I can answer this question. But Mr Van Dijk rightly points out the increase in the number of sheltered workplaces. We want the people who are now excluded, who are not in the system, who we do not have in mind, who are not seen by the municipality, to work. That group is much larger than the group of people currently working with labour costs subsidies. They can also continue to work in this way, because there will be no change within existing employment relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u101	The coalition parties are shocked by all the resistance and protests. And rightly so, because what is being proposed is not wrong. We can see that from your input and from those of your colleagues. Big questions are now being asked and the Secretary of State gets homework with them. A fundamental criticism of all these people is the unequal treatment. The Human Rights College has also said that you will have two types of employees, one of whom may feel that he is an inferior worker. Is the Christian Union going to end this unequal treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u102	First of all, let me say that I wasn't shocked by all the fuss. We were expecting it. This measure was not included in our electoral programme either. You get social security, you get people. Then you've got a fuss. And rightly so, because people are becoming uncertain about new measures. The new inflow will result in a different income from the current target group with wage subsidy. So I'm not freaked out by the fuss. I take it extremely seriously. The round table and all the signals we have received there must also be taken extremely seriously by the Secretary of State. I also want it to be included in the further development of the broad agreement on a legislative proposal. The rulings of the College of Human Rights are also extremely serious. People should be treated equally. That's what the Human Rights College is testing. In the further development of the plans, we will ensure that this is done. I must also say that there are already two regimes for people who are remote from the labour market at the moment. There's a pay dispensation and there's a wage subsidy. There are more people with pay dispensation than with wage subsidies, three times as many. That, too, is wrong. And that is precisely where there are similar cases. I'm sorry for the word "falls." I'd rather not use that. But that's what it's called. That's also injustice. We want to do something about that, too. So I have to take it all with me. When drawing up the plans, I have to see how they will be weighed against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u103	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr Bruins clearly distanced himself from this plan. He said this wasn't in our election program. Kind of reminds me of the dividend tax. That was a melon to swallow. I suppose this is also a melon, or maybe even a pumpkin to swallow. But if you say this, Mr. Bruins, if you distance yourself from this plan by saying that it is not your plan, you also have room for yourself to say how you really want it. There is now a different, unequal treatment of workers. One gets a pension and WW rights and one doesn't have a partner and a capital test. So it is not paid below the minimum wage. Is the Christian Union going to prevent one worker from being paid below the minimum wage, for example because he is married, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u105	I haven't distanced myself from this plan. I have just said that despite the fact that it was not in the election programme of the Christian Union, we have signed this government agreement. This means that within the frameworks described therein, we have agreed to this. The Christian Union stands for its signature. That's the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u106	Please continue and do not look at Mr. Jasper van Dijk invitingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u107	Yeah, he can look very inviting. Mr President, I will conclude. After decentralisation, each municipality has developed its own policy on the Participation Act and on the support of people with disabilities. This often makes it complex for employers. Yesterday I had a round table on and with social enterprises. I hear from those entrepreneurs that they only went looking for people with disabilities because they did not receive them from the municipalities. So things are far from going well with the municipalities. I've already reported that in the event of interruption. I ask the Secretary of State what it can do about this and how it can provide clarity. How do we make it really easier for employers, for the target group and for municipalities? I am convinced that only then will more people come to work. The Christian Union also calls for attention to be paid to people with medical hours limitation. If it has been established that you can work a maximum of 25 hours per week, you will work full-time for the ChristenUnion if you work 25 hours. In that case, shouldn't you just earn 100% of the minimum wage? I would like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this. At the same time, there are people who work full-time but with limited wage values. So they're going to get a share of work income and a share of benefits. Does the employment discount apply to the entire income as this person works full-time? The main note does not specifically address this issue. So please clarify this and, if necessary, the commitment that the Secretary of State wishes to examine how this issue of the labour discount can be taken into account in the elaboration of the plans. It is a relevant issue as the extent to which you are entitled to a reduction in working time affects not only the net income but also the level of the assessment income on the basis of which supplements are paid and people are entitled to municipal poverty schemes. Finally. If people start working with pay dispensation and receive additional benefits under the Participation Act, this could have a major impact on them. There are all rules on savings, cost sharing standards and release. Is this regime even fair to the people? In short, there are still many questions to answer. In the further process, the Christian Union considers it important that good coordination takes place...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u108	Thank you, Mr. Bruins, four minutes is really four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u109	... with employers and the target group. Thank you, Madam President, for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u110	That's good. I call Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr President, thank you very much. Everyone's against it, and yet it's just gonna happen later. I am, of course, talking about the introduction of pay dispensation, paying below the minimum wage for people with disabilities who have to work sheltered. While the social workshops have been locked down and enough misery has already been caused. While there are people who have been on the sidelines for years, and instead of messing with their rights, they simply want to have a job where they participate fully. While the target towards the promised 30,000 sheltered workplaces is far from being achieved. While this cabinet unabashedly makes the people extra tasty with an additional 20,000 sheltered workplaces that people with a disability have to pay themselves in the meantime. While of all these promises only 800 places have been realized and so many, many people are in their homes against their will. While the Central Planning Office indicates that pay dispensation has a small impact on employment. While employers have negative expectations and massively indicate that they are not waiting for another legislative change and the introduction of wage dispensation. While these same employers indicate with a few adjustments, which reduce unnecessary bureaucracy and facilitate working with wage costs subsidies, they can continue to work fine with wage costs subsidies. While last week's hearing, here in the House of Representatives, on pay dispensation showed that employers, employees and municipalities do not like the plans before us. While there is a broad appeal to the Secretary of State to return to the drawing table. While people with disabilities are in great uncertainty. While all this is going on, we do not yet see the beginning of a movement towards withdrawing the plan to pay people below the minimum wage. We see this in the reactions of the VVD Secretary of State Van Ark who has given them so far to all social unrest. And we see it again today during the debate, where all coalition partners hold tight and so immediately, at the end of the line, simply introduce pay dispensation. Because all those questions that have been asked could have simply been put during the negotiation procedure. Then all those people wouldn't have to come here. Then there would just have been a plan that had said: okay, looking at all the objections we're not going to do it. That would have been fair. But that didn't happen, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u112	It has come to my attention that during the treatment of the Working Law, the PVV was very much in favour of pay dispensation. So could Mr. De Jong perhaps explain to me what changed at that time, or that I didn't quite understand something? Probably the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u113	I think that Mr Peters certainly did not understand it, because what has changed in the meantime is that the CDA has been given an antisocial face by a social face. I'll tell you why. People with sheltered work now, with the CDA's plans, receive pay dispensation. People with sheltered work. You know as well as I do that at that time, under that law, that was not the issue. That's one. Two. We were against it. We were against the Participation Act. We've been against pay dispensation. I can read you a whole stack of motions rejecting pay dispensation. Then I can do it. If you'd like, I'd be happy to take my time. But don't come up with these tricks. You yourself have taken an antisocial measure by allowing people with a sheltered work indication to do so instantly sheltered work, i.e. to pay below the statutory minimum wage. So stick to the facts, Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u114	On this point, I have an enlightening question for Mr De Jong. He says: all kinds of questions are asked by the coalition parties. Mr De Jong says: "Don't do that, but if only it had been done behind closed doors in the formation, in the negotiations. Do I understand correctly that Mr De Jong is therefore calling on us not to conduct the debate openly and transparently here in Parliament but to tap these things in backrooms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u115	What kind of crazy interruption is this? What I ask is not to come up with all sorts of empty promises; that Mr Raemakers is not nice on his way to a nice headline for De Telegraaf, saying "Van Ark should not be in the place" while he is just going to make pay dispensation. We're not playing a game here. People with disabilities are not campaign material, are not defenseless people with whom you can play, where you can make empty promises. What I'm saying is, if you took such a drastic measure, you should have thought very carefully before a note to the Chamber, you should have talked to all those people before then. Should have jumped to conclusions before then. That didn't happen. And therefore, despite the fact that there are a few very good questions in between, I find the moment far and far too late. Because this is something the coalition partners could have known for years. Meanwhile, these people are in uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u117	That's what we all shouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u118	I would really like to point out to Mr De Jong that this is a key note. This isn't a bill. Today we are bringing our points, which we would like to see differently in this headline note, here in Parliament, open and transparent. Then Mr De Jong can say: these are empty promises. They're not promises either, they're questions, they're wishes, they're comments. There's gonna be a law thing coming up next. Then we will possibly table amendments. You can't do that today. But perhaps we will, if the proposal is still not good enough. I also have a question for Mr De Jong. Mr Peters just mentioned that. During Rutte I there was the bill Act working according to ability. I do not know whether this was a general note at the time, but the PVV actively supported it. This proposal looks somewhat different on a number of points, not on a number of points. Could Mr De Jong perhaps tell us what he felt strongly about the bill of that time and what we might be able to use now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u119	The essential difference is as follows. You have also read the mainnote you have just mentioned. It was created after people from certain parties, which now form a coalition, have negotiated it. If there are questions now, why did you not ask them during the negotiations, so that there had been a headline note that would have caused much less unrest? The essential difference is that people in a sheltered employment situation get pay dispensation thrown around the ears and paid under the statutory minimum wage. That's a big difference. In addition to that, we have voted against it. The PVV voted against the Participation Act and voted against the proposals on pay dispensation. The Law works according to ability...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u120	Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u121	Yeah, but it's an important element. The Work of the Law on Power has not been put to the vote at all. It is true that a number of measures have been taken during the toleration process, but the essential difference is firstly that pay dispensation does not apply to sheltered work and secondly that we have always voted against the Participation Act and against pay dispensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u122	Perhaps Mr De Jong does not fully understand what his own party has voted in the past. I'm sorry to put it this way, but you say you voted against the Participation Act. Yeah, there was just a wage bill in there. Wage dispensation was part of the proposal that the PVV once supported. So I ask Mr De Jong again what elements in the bill when the PVV supported the cabinet were good and what points we could use now. That is a very constructive question, and I would like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u123	I have here a whole list of motions tabled by several colleagues who say: do not introduce pay dispensation. We've always gone along with that. We didn't want a pay dispensation. So we also voted against proposals in the Participation Act which went towards pay dispensation. That's the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u125	The fact that Mr Raemakers is now trying to fire his own unbelievable story at the PVV is possible, but the fact remains that at the moment people are all in uncertainty and have been doing so for years. Meanwhile, the cabinet claims to have the objective of giving 30,000 people a sheltered indication or sheltered work. There are 20,000 people on top of that. EUR 500 million has been made available for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u126	You're just gonna continue your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u127	Sure. I saw the time running, so I thought I'd finish my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u128	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u129	EUR 500 million will be released for this, but in the meantime the first 30,000 will not even be achieved. So I'm gonna try again, Mr. Chairman. Secretary of State, would you please withdraw the payment dispensation plan? So go back to the drawing board and simplify the wage cost subsidy. Finally, stop making these empty promises. The minute you don't get that 30,000, no one's gonna care if you promise another 20,000. People with disabilities are not defenseless people that you can just throw away empty promises. That's what today's protest shows. I really hope that the Secretary of State will come to terms with this and make the choice to continue improving wage costs, so that this is, of course, the shared task of helping as many people as possible with disabilities to get to work. Then listen to the employers. Make sure that the bureaucratic part of the labour cost subsidy goes away, so that we also manage to achieve the common objective of getting people with disabilities to work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u130	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP. Mr Stoffer is making his maiden speech. That's a special moment. You can't be interrupted, Mr. Stoffer. It's a tradition in this house. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's almost five to twelve, but I hope that doesn't say anything about my maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. I'm guessing that most of the people in this room have been to Den Bosch. Many years ago, a boy went to Den Bosch with his father. And where are you going? Then you'll go to St. John's, at least, I suppose. I see Mr. Peters nodding in agreement. They walked through that Saint John together. At one point, the father said, "Look up." What did he see there? An eye. That's the eye of God, his father said. You should always remember that wherever you are, this is actually the case everywhere. The boy didn't think this would be such a theme in his life. Many years later, this boy, now a man, stood above the box of his third child. A little despondent. There was a great chance that the child had a serious illness. He had a hard job and a lot of things going around it. He thought, "How are you going to do that?" He kept looking at the kid and thinking, "I'll take care of you." Then that moment in St. John's in Den Bosch came back. Then his heavenly father said, "Look up." The way you look at that kid and say, "I take care of you," that's how I take care of you. That was a wonderful moment. That kid turned out to be healthy. It is my daughter of three, that as a beautiful child can cheerful and cheerful anything we had not thought at the time. The guy who was standing over that box is right here right now. I will tell you frankly: in the last month, when I was called by my current group chairman Kees van der Staaij with the question "would you like to be available to go to the Chamber here?" That moment also came up again from "Look up." I have done so and I hope that over the next few years, as long as I may be here, I will be able to look up and look with that loving eye with which God looks at me, at the subjects that pass through here for Dutch society. Then I'll move on to the subject I'm allowed to talk about today in my maiden speech. It's about something today. It's about people who don't have it easy. People who don't just get out of bed in the morning and say, "I'm just gonna get to work." Yet it is people who say: I would very much like to be able to participate fully in this society. There are therefore two principles for the SGP today when we look at those workers with disabilities. The first principle is that the government must support workers with disabilities in order to be able to work as fully as possible. The second is that we must not forget that our efforts will not succeed unless we have the help of employers. Those are two things that we will have to bring together. The SGP questions both the problems outlined and the solutions the cabinet sees in this case. The complaints about bureaucracy seem to come mainly from large companies, but we have also heard a great deal of reactions from employers who are satisfied with wage costs subsidies. Moreover, it is often the small employers who play an important role in the recruitment of workers with disabilities. Our question is therefore: how does the cabinet view this? In addition, the SGP wonders whether moving bureaucracy is the right solution. The cabinet plan may help large companies, but requires much more from vulnerable workers and perhaps also from municipalities. The SGP is very concerned about whether this is going well. Think, for example, of working with two sources of income. In addition, the Cabinet recognises that school leavers from practical education and special education from the age of 21 are going to face additional risks. The SGP also considers that support for employers cannot be limited to granting or not granting remuneration. For example, will the cabinet also provide employers with legal rights and the possibility of applying the pay scale of 100% minimum wage? Would the cabinet like to see whether the use of the wage cost advantage can be made even easier? The SGP notes that the cabinet's objective is one-sidedly aimed at more places for sheltered work. We have just heard numbers of 20,000. This preference policy is undesirable to the SGP, as it puts other workers with disabilities at a disadvantage. Madam President, I am going to finish my first term. The government's plans affect a large group of vulnerable people. That's how I started. So before we get to work, we really need to know what we're getting into. The SGP is not coûte que coûte against pay dispensation, but we note that there is a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty at the moment. In order to arrive at a final position, the SGP will in any case need a more comprehensive basis for the legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u132	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I would like to congratulate you on your maiden speech. I thought it was beautiful and touching. I continue to find maiden speeches the most beautiful speeches that are spoken here, because that also sounds because of why they are in politics. It was beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-4.u133	I'm going to suspend the sitting for congratulations, but I'm also going to have a half-hour lunch break. I'll do that after I get to congratulate you first.
