ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u1	The next item is the Law on reduced legal tuition, Room 34911. I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u2	I'll give Mrs. Tielen... Oh, I see Mr. Bishop gets first. And everyone's okay with that, Mr. Bishop? First, I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking my colleagues for the generosity with which they allowed me to speak first, although I was much lower on the list of speakers. All this in connection with the joyful fact of exactly 100 years ago, which is commemorated tonight, that our party was founded 100 years ago, on the evening. Thank you for that. Mr President, I sincerely apologise for failing to report this to you in good time. I humbly ask for forgiveness for that. Madam President. Imagine finding a pot of gold coins worth 175 million euros and our mission is to distribute them fairly. How do you do that? That's very simple, you think; everyone equals. That sounds fair at first sight, but is it? Is it fair to give everyone as much as some do not actually need the money, while others are chronically short? On this issue of fair distribution is the bill which the government wants to grant students a concession. The government chooses to provide children of top incomes with the same level of support as students who have been hit by the loan system. Let me be honest: the SGP does not yet succeed, despite its venerable age of 100 years, to really understand that. We give each student a relief, but some students really need more support than others. I would like to draw attention to three groups: first, underage students, second, lower incomes and third, part-time students. First of all, the underage students. Parents of underage students lose the right to financial support from the government. This was less problematic before the introduction of the loan system, because almost all students received the grant, and that is over. The government indicates that it has not yet seen an investigation pointing to problems of underage students. Yes, I'm sure you do, but if we look at the answers to the questions sent to the Chamber yesterday, then those answers speak volumes and that investigation is actually unnecessary. Let us look at the next situation, bearing in mind that education traditionally had a powerful emancipatory effect in the Netherlands, has been an emancipation motor. Let's look at this example. You're graduating at the havo level and you're having second thoughts about your choice of study between MBO and HBO. Actually, you think the HBO would suit you better, but then you get to see the financial consequences. If you go to the MBO, you get an O.V. card, your dad and/or mom receive €4,000 in child support and child-related budget and you don't have to pay tuition fees. Count out your winnings. If you go to HBO, you will also get an O.V. card, yes, but Dad and/or Mom lose €4,000 in child-related budget and child benefit, the government actually expects your parents to pay another €3,000 extra and with your supplementary scholarship you can't even pay the tuition fee. That's pretty much what I'm talking about. And to think, about 22,500 students have to deal with this problem. The government hopes that the reduction of tuition fees by €1,000 will stimulate students. But what, according to the Minister, is a disadvantage of €4,000 for the choice of study group and for the accessibility of higher education? Together with Mr Futselaar, I have tabled an amendment to put this group out of business. I realize that it is a cross-departmental problem, because it affects social affairs and education, but please do not let us hide behind it! 22,500 young people have a real problem here. It also affects the same number of families. Then we cannot say: but think about the divisions between the budgets? That may be true, but then we have to come up with a ruse, just like Tom Poes always does in the stories of Marten Toonder, and then we get out: end well, all right. It seems to us that in the available budget of 175 million the necessary 15 million is actually a relatively limited amount to solve this problem. The SGP has questions about the supposed parental contribution to the situation of minors. The government continues to stress that this contribution is not mandatory. That is true formally, but at the same time the contribution is based on the cost of living. How can it be explained that the supposed parental contribution has even increased through the loan system, while these parents lose thousands of euros of support? Does the government recognise that it is not likely that parents and students will be able to provide sufficient living costs under the legal system? The SGP has noted that the government has so far stressed that the abolition of child benefit is compensated by the social security card. That was also the case with the treatment of the loan system. Does the government recognise that it is not sufficiently aware that child benefit also has an impact on the child-related budget and then on additional support for single parents? Yesterday we received answers to our questions, which give us a clear-cut insight into them. Wouldn't it be a good idea to rethink this now that we see that the effects are in the thousands of euros and the inequality between MBO and HBO is difficult to explain? I have the impression that smaller amounts of money are being complained about in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The second point is the middle income. For the SGP, the position of middle incomes weighed heavily in the treatment of the loan system. It is the middle income that has been put under extra pressure. The lower incomes were able to count on additional additional grants as a result of the bill. On the other hand, middle incomes were expected to contribute extra to the study of son- or daughter-lief. They also have a hard time with other schemes. The CBS indicates that MBOs from middle-income families are less likely to pass on to HBO. The concerns remain, therefore, unabated. This bill would have been an excellent opportunity to strengthen their position, but unfortunately it is not. That is why the question: is the government at least prepared to pay extra attention to the position of middle incomes and to work towards improvement? Finally, part-time students from Open University. I read that the government sees no possibility of treating students from Open University differently from part-time students from other institutions. This would lead to discrimination. I cannot follow that argument in all honesty. That does not mean that I have a blind spot for discrimination, as you may be tempted to think; quite the contrary. Let me give you an example. The government has deliberately introduced into the law a derogation for students from the Open University allowing them to pay per module. Apparently, the government saw reason to treat these students differently. Then why isn't that discrimination? And if this is not discrimination, why can we not, in the spirit of the current scheme, shape the reduced tuition fees? The latter would do justice to the differences between part-time students. There are now experiments at other institutions with pay per credit. In the long term, we may also be able to better accommodate the other part-time students. And finally, Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal brings with it the necessary burdens, especially when students change their tuition fees during the period when they receive reduced tuition fees or stop studying, and you name it all. There is an additional burden because we believe that the government wants to introduce the proposal very quickly, in our view too quickly. The costs of the introduction will be placed on the board of the institutions. The SGP trusts that the government will provide the institutions with additional benefits if, for example, it appears that the law produces a lot of legal procedures, with all the costs involved. Mr President, that was the first-term contribution of the SGP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u4	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I shall now go to Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is an exciting week for all those students in 5 havo and 6 vwo who have registered to study next year. How's this week going to unpack? What happens Thursday afternoon? Unfortunately, as much as it would be fun: their tension is not about the votes on legislative proposal 34911, which we are debating today. No, it is the last week, which is traditionally concluded in many secondary schools with an event organized by the graduation students, which usually results in chaos and disorder. I wish all students a fantastic last day of school Thursday. Debates on laws can't captivate the average student or student too much. Although, a large number of students will find it an attractive prospect that tuition fees will be reduced during their first year of study. I hope they're watching today. Today we are discussing the proposal to amend the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act with regard to the introduction of a basis for the reduction of legal tuition fees for groups of students. The VVD is positive and critical of the bill. We think that the doubting students can cross the line, especially those who doubt whether they want to be teachers. A reduced tuition fee of over €80 per month has an impact on a student's finances. The bill raises a number of questions and we think it can be done a little better. I have a number of questions for the Minister about the implementation and the side-intromers at teacher training. In the proposal we read that DUO will not be able to reduce the maximum amount to be borrowed for the target groups mentioned for the coming year. This may have the adverse effect that students borrow more than they need. What problems does the Minister have with regard to the implementation of DUO on the one hand and with regard to students on the other? And what can the Minister do to make it possible or to ensure that these new students themselves adjust their loan amount to the reduced tuition fee? The Council of State is critical of the bill. The Minister has, in our view, balanced and clearly answered those critical questions. At the same time, however, the VVD believes that it is wise to closely monitor the effectiveness of the bill. That is why we are also tabling an amendment to review the law earlier, namely after three years. We do that together with the CDA and the Christian Union. The influence of the halving of tuition fees on the number of students who are going to do teacher training and the student's borrowing behaviour is, as far as we are concerned, a good criterion for looking at what it has done in three years' time. The Minister announced earlier that he would halve not only the tuition fees of the pabos but also that of teacher training for teachers in secondary education. Good! But the VVD actually hopes that the teacher shortage will also be filled by side-intromers: students who, after another study and perhaps several years of work, are considering becoming teachers. What can the Minister do to get those doubters over the line and give them a discount on tuition fees? How many theyinfluxing students would it be, and how many euros? We had no idea and went a little searching ourselves. Half the tuition fee applies to the largest group of students for the legal tuition fee of €2,060 per year. There is also a group of students studying at institutions that are allowed to apply for increased legal tuition fees. That's about 3,000. So that's a very small group compared to the rest. We may not consider it entirely necessary to halve this increased amount as well. Our question to the Minister is what she thinks of that. We have already asked a few questions about this in the written round. You could also say: €1,030 discount on the tuition fee applies to anyone studying at an institution where the legal tuition fee is levied. The money that will then be left is 2.5 million.... we could use for a group I was talking about earlier. I would like a response from the Minister to those questions. I'm looking forward to that. I am also looking forward to the critical questions of the rest of the Chamber, the firm answers of the Minister and the legislative proposal itself. And I wish all those graduation students a nice and successful exam period and lots of study fun next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u6	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP, who has given up 20 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u7	Yes, Mr President, because when we deal with legislation, thoroughness is a virtue, I think. Mr. Chairman. You'll only be young in the year 2018 in either 17, 18 or 19 years old. How different is that, for example, compared to 20 years earlier, in 1998, when I was young. Or ten years earlier, in 1988, when Prime Minister Rutte was. The young Frank Futselaar chose an education in a profession that had his passion, received four years of study funding from the government, had housing costs that were just affordable, came to work at a time when it went economically well and landed in the certainty of a fixed contract. And ten years earlier, young Mark Rutte had it even better. He did the same training, just in time for the introduction of the Study Financing Act, and received six years of study funding, with a much higher basic grant and with significantly lower house prices. And this Mark Rutte also did long enough about his studies to ensure that he entered the labour market in booming nineties. Like long-term students Alexander Pechtold and Diederik Samsom. It is a bit ironic that the generation of politicians responsible for abolishing the basic grant also belonged to the generation of students who have benefited from it to the maximum, more than the generations for them and more than the generations after them. Mr. Chairman. Be young in 2018 and then want to study. It's a study paper that's higher than it's ever been. College fees higher than ever. A housing market that provides towering prices for room tenants and gives starters an almost impossible position. A labour market focused on flex contracts and uncertainty. And for anyone who's unfortified parents has a hefty college debt. The current generation of younger people must take serious account of getting worse than their parents. Then I do not mean the darkening in the eighties, the doom thinking in the atmosphere of: the bomb falls anyway. It is a rational analysis of their own economic position. It's just extremely insecure. No wonder we see that the millennial generation is having children ever later and that we are getting alarming reports about student stress, with all the related complaints. Mr. Chairman. In this context, a government proposal to make studying for young people financially more attractive is in principle to be welcomed. It's a bitter necessity. The SP will assess the current legislative change and the announced general administrative measure........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In addition, I will address a number of specific elements, including our amendment and possible points of motion. Mr. Chairman. Reduction of tuition fees is explicitly stated in the government agreement. In the explanatory memorandum, the Government states that this proposal is intended to ensure that the financial aspect of the decision to go to higher education or not disappears, leaving only the choice of content driven study. These are extremely commendable reasons. This cabinet is also willing to deposit 175 million to make this possible. But the same government agreement also includes the introduction of ten-year interest rates instead of the five-year interest rate on student loans, which in the longer term has to raise more than 225 million a year. That intention is not in this law. We're not going to vote on that this week. But if you're right to worry about financial thresholds for students, that's the motivation. I don't understand why you see increasing the total debt that students have to pay afterwards, not as an even higher threshold. Especially since the tuition fees are the same for everyone. Everyone pays the same amount. It is obvious that students from families with lower incomes will need to borrow more and will therefore have to pay more and will therefore suffer more from higher interest rates. My first question is: does the Minister agree with the SP that these groups are relatively worse off with the combination of both measures and that wealthy students are relatively better off? If so, do these measures together not constitute a higher threshold for study, given the fear of borrowing? Or is the combination a thought in the trend of some telephone providers, who make sure that the new phone, which has to be paid directly, becomes a lot cheaper and who hope that people are often young people who do not see that they have to pay more than other providers according to the monthly contract that comes next? If that is the idea, then I congratulate the cabinet on an effective sales technique, but then I wonder if this is responsible governance. The Minister stated in an earlier debate that this ten-year interest rate is necessary for keeping public finances healthy in the longer term. Doesn't that apply to this cut in tuition fees? It also affects public finances every year, doesn't it? Or does the cabinet assume that this is a temporary measure, which will be undone in a few years' time, for example if there is no party in the coalition that has spoken big words about the return of the basic grant? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. At the time of the introduction of the loan system, the advocates argued that the introduction should not jeopardise the accessibility of education. However, we are now getting a proposal to remove financial thresholds, which seem to be there. Is the SP aware that this cabinet believes that financial thresholds have been created when the loan system is introduced? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State is also critical. He felt that the measure was too generic for the purpose of removing financial thresholds. The Council of State points out that, in view of the total cost of studying, which has obviously increased considerably with the introduction of the loan system, the financial advantage of one academic year of half tuition fees or in the case of teacher training is very limited for two academic years of half tuition fees. The Council considers these measures too generic and doubts whether they effectively remove thresholds. In fact, it is unclear to the SP what exactly the government's defence is against this accusation. The SP is not against generic measures such as, for example, a basic grant, but if coalition or budget agreements do not allow you to reduce the amount of 175 million, then it is not unreasonable to wonder whether you are removing more thresholds by more targeted action. I refer to the increase in the supplementary grant, the broadening of the group entitled to a supplementary grant or something specifically aimed at the flow of MBOs. Why wasn't this chosen? The SP is also concerned about the implementation. A substantial part of the implementation, Mr Bisschop, has already paid attention to this. The Minister says that this will be looked at next year, but that is a bit unsatisfactory in reply. The Council of State once again expresses its concern and points to the uncertainty of implementation costs. There is an uncertainty margin of 50%. Institutions indicate that they are concerned about more appeal cases. The SP would like the Minister's assurance that neither educational institutions nor individual students will be financially affected by any implementation problems, even if the number of professional cases takes off. More specifically, if implementation costs are higher, will they be borne by the cabinet rather than by the institutions? We would like to make that clear. In addition, there is currently some uncertainty as to how institutions will be compensated for the reduction in tuition fees. It is unsatisfactory for the SP to deal with this law without it being completed, not only because we do not know an exact outcome, but also because we are actually undermining the negotiating position of the institutions by adopting the law before it is completed. It's no different. We understand that this law now has to pass quickly in order to reach the date of 1 September, but could the Minister not give us something of an interim? What's going on with that? And how far apart are the parties? Mr. Chairman. In fact, I have not yet spoken about the legislative proposal before us, but only about the general measure of governance announced in the government agreement. The law we are voting on is actually, disrespectfully said, a vehicle to enable a rapid general measure of governance for the next academic year. This is perfectly understandable in the context of the long-term cabinet formation and in view of the desire to introduce this measure this year. But it does not relieve us of our duty to look critically at the legislative proposal itself, and the SP has a big problem with that. This bill makes it possible for the government not only to make changes not only to this government, but also to any government to make changes to the tuition fees in the future, aimed at certain training courses or target groups, without any further clear criteria being laid down. That's going too far for the SP. There are quite differences of opinion about the differentiation of tuition fees in this Chamber. I can think of horror scenarios for each of the spokesmen in which, let's say, Minister Futselaar of Education says that we should make training with less labour market perspective cheaper or that we should make an imam education cheaper, because there is a shortage of Dutch-speaking imams. I think most people would say: Parliament should be involved. That is why the SP has tabled an amendment to introduce a parliamentary veil. Changing tuition fees can have major economic and social consequences and affect the financial position of students, institutions and the Empire. That's not something to tap into an AMvB in the future. Hence the amendment. We are, of course, aware of the coalition's desire to implement the announced AMvB before 1 September. It is not our intention to frustrate this now with a veil and a parliamentary debate before that time, but in the future I would like that guarantee to be included. Now it is possible for the government to bring this law into force after the general measure of governance and thus to avoid that parliamentary treatment has been explained to us, but in future we do want that parliamentary control to be guaranteed. Then part-time training. Mr Bishop has already said something about this. The government has announced that by general measure of governance it will be based on a reduction in tuition fees for the first 12 months of a study and for teacher training over the first 24 months. This is logical as a commitment to all programmes except part-time studies, because part-time courses, of which the Open University in general is the example, are specifically aimed at more months of doing about the same training. If you get 30 points per year in a part-time education, you are generally studying quite quickly. Then the limit of 12 months is actually unjust. This makes the SP all the more interesting because, for example, students from Open University tend to follow distance learning relatively often, for example because they are not so mobile due to a disability and cannot easily receive on-site education. It stings to let them be victims, or at least not to treat them fairly with the others. That is why we would like to propose that part-time training should be limited to 24 months, with a maximum of 60 ECTS credits. If this is technically possible, because we know that following credits is complicated. The Minister has already informed us in the written round that it is possible to move to more months in part-time training, at least technically, and that it will cost about 6 million extra structurally. As far as the SP is concerned, this is really worth it. We would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to agree to settle this in an AMvB, preferably for this academic year and otherwise for the following year. If she is not prepared to do so, we will, of course, have to refer it to the Chamber by motion. I would also like to briefly comment on what is probably the largest unlucky generation of students from post-war history, namely the students who started their studies in the academic years 2015-2016, 2016-2017 and 2017-2018. These are the students who had to deal with the loan system, but only to a limited extent with the investments involved; we are still having a debate on the extent to which they have ended up there. And now they're gonna miss a cut in tuition. This group of students has the feeling that they are the victims of fickle government policies. And there's a point, I'd say. This group was given the right to use educational vouchers between five and ten years after completion of their training in order to receive further education. The SP would like these students to receive vouchers or some of those vouchers immediately after obtaining a bachelor's degree. Then they can use that money for a master's programme. So they get their share of what I would almost call the "free beer" that is distributed in this bill. Frankly, I also find the five to ten-year-old limit of graduation a curious one. It almost seems as if that limit has been created to prevent people from using the scheme. This might be a good time for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u8	Yes. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u9	I also want to wait quietly until Mr Futselaar is ready. But I thought he was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u10	No, it's gonna be a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u11	Not with my whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u12	Shall I do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u14	Look, it's a pity that Mr Futselaar wasn't a spokesperson for the SP when we were talking about the loan system. On the one hand, this sounds like a SP-story to me, in the vein of: we know how to come up with a problem with every solution. But let me focus on those generic measures. The SP has been fighting for years and years for the preservation of the basic grant. If there is one generic measure, "free beer for everyone" as you yourself called it, that is the basic grant. There have been a number of parties here who have said: let us not make it so generic, let us keep the supplementary grant and even increase it and let us land more education euros in the classroom. It's something you've always been for. My question, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u15	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u16	Yes, were you there yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u17	Well, you've made quite an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u18	My question is: is it conceivable that the SP will vote against this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u19	I wanted to keep the conclusion to the end, but the answer is "no." We will agree to this law. If it's all right with you, at the end, I'll summarize the reasons a little bit. We're just seeing problems. However, it is not only the task of the Lower House to approve or not approve proposals from the Cabinet, but also to try to make them better. And I'm definitely trying to do that. I would like to comment on the generic point. It is not for nothing that I mentioned literally in my speech that the SP is not against generic measures, including the basic grant. But we have a rather limited pot of money. I do not want to put 175 million away as nothing, because it is a considerable sum, but in the total amount of education money it is quite limited. If you want to use that, I think you should ask the question: how do you put it most effectively for the problem you want to solve? The minister says it's about removing financial thresholds. I don't think it's weird, and I don't think we're going to abandon our preference for a basic scholarship if we're asking if a generic reduction in tuition fees is the best way. Let us not forget that the amount of the basic exchange plus the supplementary exchange was higher than that of the current supplementary exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u20	At least I am glad to hear that the SP is going to support this law. Making better is always good; we'll see. But let's talk about this generic measure. If there's one large amount of generic that the SP wanted to keep, it's the basic grant. Other parties made a different choice at the time. Now a further generic measure is being taken for a substantial amount. And who will find the coalition opposite on that point? The SP! You have a rather separate way of dealing with generic: if it is there, it must be preserved and when it comes, it must be kept away. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u21	Apparently, Mr Van Meenen cannot imagine the difference between different generic measures. I can tell the difference. There are generic measures to which I attach great importance and there are also generic ones that I have more doubts about. I think it is a very big simplification of a complex subject in itself to say that you were in favour of this generic measure, so you should also be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u22	I suggest you move on, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u23	With pleasure, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the unlucky generation of vouchers that can only be used in a period between five and ten years after graduation. I found that a rather strange measure. I haven't been able to find anyone to explain to me why between five and ten years has been chosen. That seems to me to be a policy of discouragement, because that is about the period in which you look for the least education. My proposal is to use those resources or some of them to give the master the opportunity to finance. Is the Minister prepared to take such a measure, possibly by general measure of administration, if she is given the opportunity to do so by this law? Directions to completion, Chairman. It was even possible in 15 minutes, so it wasn't so bad again. This law is the wrong solution to a major problem. The big problem is the precarious financial situation of students. There are alternatives. People prefer to use the basic grant back or more on additional grants, but on the other hand, that's my conclusion.It's extremely cynical to say that young people don't benefit from a discount of €1,000. Young people are generally relatively poor and €1,000 makes a difference for an 18-year-old without rich parents. We therefore intend to vote in favour of this bill at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u24	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now turn to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u25	Mr. Chairman. D66 stands for education and opportunities, opportunities for all. That is why this cabinet invests EUR 1.9 billion a year in opportunities to make education more accessible and stronger. This is also very important in higher education. Accessibility must always be paramount. If financial considerations disappear into the background, students can choose a study based on what suits their talents and what they really find interesting. The present bill halves tuition fees for first-year students and for pabo students and students at teacher training even for the first two years. In doing so, this cabinet shows that it considers the accessibility of higher education to be important and that it offers solutions for addressing the shortage of teachers. For an individual student, this €1,000 makes a big difference, of course. Mr. Futselaar also mentioned this at the beginning of the study, when books are to be purchased, perhaps a deposit for a student room has to be paid, etc. In addition to the halving of tuition fees for first-year students, this bill also provides for a halving of tuition fees for the first two years of teacher training. That is one of the measures I have already mentioned in order to reduce the shortage of teachers. The shortage of teachers is a serious problem and, in addition to this measure, obviously calls for other measures, which we are discussing in other debates. It would be fantastic if more young people would choose that wonderful profession of teacher, if only for this simple reason, because, you know, I speak from experience it is a wonderful profession. It can't be said enough. Unfortunately, at the moment this is not the prevailing picture and so it is important that the profession becomes more attractive. By making teacher training more attractive, young talented students are encouraged to follow this training and that is ultimately good for education. However, the Council of State was critical of this bill and felt that it should be reconsidered. The legislative proposal would be too generic, but I would like to stress here that education is about individuals: children, students, students, future teachers. For an individual student, if you look from his or her perspective, €1,000 is indeed a significant amount, an amount that matters and that is support in the back. This is something that should be used in education. Mr. Chairman. Students should benefit from this law as soon as possible, and that is why I am pleased that the Minister and her officials have worked so hard to get this law to the Chamber quickly. At this rate it is also possible to give all new students who start studying in the academic year 2018/2019 €1,000 discount on their tuition fees and that is wonderful. But in addition to compliments to the Minister, I also have a few questions. Because when things go fast, people sometimes want to miss something. That is why my question to the Minister is how she will ensure that all new students are aware of this news as soon as possible. The explanatory memorandum shall refer to timely information. I also asked for it in my written contribution. Through an online campaign and letters to institutions is widely used to inform everyone, but do these generic means of communication also ensure that individual prospective students are achieved well enough? And, if so, how? In addition, I noticed that for part-time students, both regular and open university students, no exception has been made to claim the halving of tuition fees for longer than the regular twelve-month period. The Minister writes that this is not feasible. I would like to hear a further explanation of that. Through the annual monitor, the Monitor Policies for Higher Education, the effectiveness of this bill is monitored. To what extent is it still possible to adjust, if necessary? Finally, a brief point on DUO. At the moment, the DUO website is temporarily out of the sky due to the installation of a new ICT system. The fact that a month is needed to implement a new ICT system says something in itself and it is well known that there are still problems at DUO. I am therefore a little concerned about whether this change of law does not place too much on the board of DUO in the short term. Can the Minister confirm that DUO will be ready in time to implement the measure, so that all students entitled to this halving will receive it? I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister once again for her efforts to keep the threshold for studying as low as possible. You could say that there is hardly any threshold, but with this we also explain the red carpet to Mr Futselaar. That should appeal to him, especially given the color. I would also like to thank the Minister for tackling the shortage of teachers, because in this way we provide opportunities for everyone in education, and that is the top priority for D66. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u26	Mr Van Meenen was right to make a point of the supplementary grant, which went up with the study advance system, in the interrupting debate. He also rightly made the point that accessibility can and should be promoted. My question is whether it would be even better to opt in this bill for a slightly lower generic discount on tuition fees, for example €500 instead of €1,000, and to add the money that is thus released to the supplementary scholarship. Wouldn't that make things even better for accessibility and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u27	Depends on what perspective you're looking at it from. Look, sometimes the better is the enemy of good. This is what we have agreed with four parties, and I and my party believe that this is an excellent proposal, so we are going to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u28	I appreciate this honest answer from my colleague, but I am going to do my best to convince both Mr Van Meenen and the other coalition parties that it can be better sometimes than good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u29	I think that's a very good idea. Perhaps it would have been even better if you had done so at an earlier stage, for example at the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u30	Good. Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I now give the floor to Mr Özdil on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u31	Mr. Chairman. Like the abolition of the dividend tax, half the tuition fees in the first year and teacher training also in the second year were not in any coalition party programme. However, unlike the abolition of the dividend tax, my group is positive about the objectives of this legislative proposal. GroenLinks is pleased that this proposal allows students to pay less tuition fees. In the end, the students will earn 175 million euros in structural terms until 2023. At the same time, however, my group is concerned about the proverbial cigar from its own box that is located a few pages away from the coalition agreement. The cabinet also wants to increase the interest rate on the student loan. And that cost the students more money than half the tuition costs. The Minister says that reducing tuition fees and raising interest rates are different things, but for students these are not two different things. It is not for nothing that the student associations LSVb and ISO have already expressed these concerns from the outset. I just said the Minister denies there's a cigar from his own box. Fine, let's agree to disagree, in good Dutch. But my question to the Minister is whether she is willing to at least admit that with raising the interest rate, students will end up losing at least as much money as they saved by halving the tuition fee in this bill. The Minister said that the bill made higher education more accessible, but colleagues pointed out that the Council of State indicated that access to higher education was not demonstrated in this proposal. Isn't this weird? Should we no longer focus on students whose parents can contribute little or nothing to the study? Because we already have something for that, we have just talked about it, namely the supplementary grant. Could we not use some of the funds earmarked for reducing tuition fees to increase the supplementary scholarship, for example by reducing tuition fees in the first year and teacher training courses in the second year, by a quarter instead of half, and by increasing the additional scholarship with the money remaining?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u32	I have a question on the point that Mr Özdil raised earlier, as did Mr Futselaar. That was about raising interest rates on the one hand, and on the other hand reducing tuition fees. Does Mr Özdil agree with me that these two things can indeed not be linked? Because the proceeds of the interest rate increase from the government agreement fall in about 2065, while the advantage for the student starts already this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u33	GroenLinks does not agree that these two things cannot be linked, because students start paying immediately after graduation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u34	I cannot deny that they can be linked either, because Mr Özdil does so. But the CDA indicates that the link is not there. It matters very much in the individual situation how much you lend and how the interest rate is going to develop over the next 50 years. Neither one of us has a glass ball to see how that's gonna go. Mr Özdil has to agree with me on that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u35	It is true that none of us here has a glass ball, but we do have a reasonable estimate of what this increase in the interest rate from the five-year rate to the ten-year rate will bring about, at least in the short and medium term. For example, this year's ten-year interest rate is much higher than the five-year interest rate. We also see this in the coalition agreement. It says: "The increase in interest rates provides 225 million in structural terms." That's way more than the 175 million students are going to get with the cut in tuition fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u36	There is indeed much unknown about the ten-year interest rate. Of course, we have not yet seen a legislative proposal or even a start to it. We can see how the coalition agreement states that it must produce money in the long term. That was also the motivation: we need to put public finances in order. But rightly, for example, Mr Van der Molen says: it depends very much on how much you borrow. Yeah, that's right. That is why it is the opposite of a progressive measure, because it means that students who borrow more are likely to be more affected by students from, for example, a family with poorer parents. That is the problem of submitting a generic measure on the one hand and on the other hand one that affects specific loans, because that is how certain groups are harder hit. I would like to ask Mr Özdil whether he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u37	Mr President, this is almost entrapment! Let me put it this way: GroenLinks does not think it is a good idea to raise interest rates. GroenLinks has also called for an increase in the supplementary grant, which I have just mentioned. I also expect support from the SP to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u38	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u39	My colleague, Mr Futselaar, has just mentioned the possibility of reducing the legal tuition fees on the basis of a general measure of governance for certain groups of students in higher education. In short, it opens the door to further differentiation of tuition fees. GroenLinks would find it a worrying development if tuition fees were increasingly differentiated. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she shares these concerns. Differentiation of tuition fees is a difficult political issue and in order to be able to make a political assessment of possible future cases of student fees differentiation, we are indeed submitting an amendment, together with the SP, to allow for a suspension procedure in such cases. Finally, two important points, two concerning GroenLinks, concerning unduly snowed children. Firstly, colleagues have already mentioned it: "Open University is a strange duck in the bite." There they study more flexibly and usually do not get 60 credits in one year. This bill only gives the discount in the first year. That is why the question is: is the Minister prepared to discuss with the Open University and participation in order to find an appropriate solution? Second. This proposal benefits students in higher education, but the MBO is once again forgotten. The MBO is a form of education where accessibility and flow of at least as important as in scientific education. Has the Minister considered lowering the tuition fees for MBO students, is my final question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u40	Thank you, Mr. Özdil. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u41	Thank you, Mr President. At first sight, we are dealing here with a sympathetic proposal, but at second sight, this change of law is breathtaking as far as we are concerned with symbolic politics, ill-thoughtfulness and unripeness are concerned. After all, it is a patch on the gaping wound of the teacher shortage, but also on the imaginary wound of that so-called waning accessibility and opportunity equality problem. The Minister wants to lower the threshold for access to higher education, but at the same time notes that this measure will have little effect on the numbers of students entering higher education. We find that strange. It should be the case that students with a fear of borrowing will be moved by this measure to study now that the basic grant has disappeared. Two reports show, fortunately, that the influx into higher education has been restored after the introduction of the loan system. It's back on the old level even. The objective and effects of this proposed reduction in tuition fees are therefore purely qualitative, the Minister states, and should be sought in the way in which the choice of whether or not to continue to study is made. I think that is a vague argument. It even looks a little like an occasional argument. The financial aspect behind this choice will then disappear into the background, which will make the choice mainly based on a convincing choice of content for a study. That's a remarkable reasoning. Isn't the choice to study driven mainly by the financial advantage that this legislative change will bring? After that first year, students who do not attend teacher training pay 50% more tuition fees. If students are first driven to study because of reduced tuition fees, could they, following this logic, be driven right after that first profitable year to stop studying again because the costs are simply not bearable? The prospective students who choose to study because of this advantage but then quit after that first year, we will be lost forever. Does the Minister think he can anticipate that scenario? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The aim of the amendment of the law is mainly to increase accessibility and ultimately also equality of opportunity. Reducing the shortage of teachers is subordinate to this because the Minister acknowledges that this measure is only a piece of the puzzle to reduce the shortage of teachers. But we don't know. We don't know. We simply do not know whether this measure, for which up to EUR 730 million has been allocated to 2022, is going to generate the equivalent of EUR 740 million for the Profiling Fund. What's it gonna do? It's a lot of money for a plan based on a piece of wishful thinking. This reduction, which is particularly beneficial for prospective-pabo-students, is also expected to have a sucking effect. Absolutely. But is it desirable to recruit students purely for this reason for teaching? Did the Minister think about that? After all, this is EUR 740 million of taxpayers' money. And will it not have a detrimental effect on the quality of the students who ultimately have to reduce that shortage of teachers? I would also like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The cost of this proposal is not small. I mentioned the amount of 740 million until 2022. From 2023 onward, the structural funds amount to 175 million. When spending this kind of money, I think the large sums of money, you would expect that quantitative research has been done in advance, especially since the Minister himself expects that this measure will have little effect on the numbers of students who will be influxing. I am also concerned that there is no mention in any way of a possible aspirating effect on foreign students. That's really a big concern. We now have 122,000 foreign students here. Maastricht University, I must say: Maastricht University, now there are 52% foreign students. That's what the principal said cheerfully. The unbridled internationalisation and englishment of our higher education already raises a great deal of resistance among the population. He doesn't understand how we spend so many hundreds of millions on foreign students instead of on our own children. Soon, a quarter of all Bachelor's programmes will be in English. And what does this minister do? She lures even more foreigners to our higher education by halving the tuition fees. This measure also applies to all other students in the EU. Why would a British student pay over €30,000, converted from pounds, for a bachelor's degree in his own country, while he is not ready here for €5.20? Then he can also study in his own mother tongue. He also has the enormous advantage that he or she is a native speaker, unlike his fellow students and teachers. Especially for students from the UK, it is becoming very attractive to cross the North Sea as an academic tourist and to study here for a fraction of the money he has lost in the UK. We don't see anything about academic tourism. We can see from far and wide that these measures will further fuel internationalisation and engulation. Can the Minister assure me that this measure will not be an incentive for an even more unbridled phenomenon I do not know if the word 'internationalisation' and 'engaging' exists? I would also like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u42	My highly valued colleague Bertema of the PVV also uses this bill to discuss international students again and the fact that they could abuse or use this proposal at the expense of Dutch students. The example that my colleague always uses is that of Maastricht University. Shame, 52% international students! Mr President, Maastricht University is located in Limburg, on the border between Germany and Belgium. The radius of every university, when it comes to attracting students, is 100 kilometers. At Maastricht University, most of these international students are German students. Does my colleague in the PVV agree with me that his criticism, his scandal against Maastricht University, not only means 'own student first' but also that Maastricht University can shut itself down. Is that your target?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u43	Yes. Look, I understand your reasoning. Each university has a radius of about 100 kilometers, but I assume that we do so from our nation state, which also knows borders. Again, I do not feel very responsible for or in solidarity with students from Germany. Let Mrs Merkel take care of that. They have their own Bundestag and stuff. They'll figure it out. 52%! Why does our taxpayer have to pay for that? We still think in that for you perfide concept of a nation state that has boundaries. We do not; we still recognise these limits. If you hear from all sides that there are not enough students to keep the university of Maastricht, Maastricht University... It's not about not having enough students. There are too many universities in this country. That's the problem, Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u44	I am pleased to hear this honest answer from my colleague, Mr Beertema. We see clearly here that the PVV, who always talks about our nation state, patriotism, love the Netherlands,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u45	Well, patriotism...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u46	... at the same time, you yourself have just done so, and I appreciate that, honestly, you want to destroy Maastricht University. Maastricht University, which gives Limburg a huge boost in terms of economic development, employment. You want to get rid of Maastricht. You want to get rid of economic development within our country. Do you think you're a real patriot by trying to shut down Maastricht University? Do you really think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u47	I'm a very real patriot, but that's not the point. Economically, if a company has too few customers, we're gonna get in trouble. Then a company or an organization no longer has any right to exist. If the Maastricht University derives the right to exist from the majority of foreign students, then we are not doing very well. In business, it is quite normal for such a company to be renovated, apparently not in higher education. Then there are all kinds of tricks to bring students and students from all over the world to it. But, yeah, you can't. We can also...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u49	... spend each education euro only once. I'd rather do that to Dutch students than foreign students. But for GroenLinks that is quite a difficult concept. Mr. Chairman. We share the criticism of the Council of State. This measure is not effective in our opinion. The advantage comes from students who already intended to study and not from the group that would not even study without this halving, because that group is studying again, according to the reports I referred to. 740 million to 2022 and from 2023 onwards 175 million: spending a lot of money without proper research, just based on wishful thinking. As a government representative and controller, I cannot sell that to my constituents. I give it to the Minister, Mr President, to convince me in her term, but for the time being I find that at least she did not get the Council of State on her side. So I'm curious. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u50	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u51	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the halving of tuition fees for first-year students and students at a teacher's programme. The Christian Union welcomes the speed with which the Minister has worked out these agreements in the coalition agreement. Studying must be accessible to everyone. The Christian Union would like there to be as few thresholds as possible to study. The present proposal makes the financial threshold for studying less high. This helps to make our higher education more accessible. Students are thus less hampered by a financial barrier in their choice to study. The Minister states that this measure can also help young people who have doubts as to whether they can handle it financially. It is therefore important for this measure to be well known, especially in this group of doubters. How does the Minister intend to reach this group? What communication is going to take place? What other possibilities does it see for doubters to cross the line? The Christian Union is pleased that half the tuition fee is even valid for two years for teacher training. All that contributes to the fight against the shortage of teachers is profit. This, too, is a good step towards investing in education and providing enough qualified teachers. Of course, this has not solved the shortage of teachers. There are also many other aspects involved: teachers' working conditions, career prospects, workload and so on. It is good that the cabinet invests heavily in all these aspects. The Christian Union calls on the Minister to speed up these measures as much as possible and to keep an eye on the effects of the various investments. It is also important to monitor the effects of this investment, the halving of tuition fees for teacher training courses. The Minister is going to keep us informed through the Higher Education Policy Monitor. I ask the Minister whether this will also allow her to monitor the effects on the shortage of teachers, or whether further research is needed to do so. In addition, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, the main objective of this measure is that young people with less debt can start their adult lives, especially because the loan system has significantly deteriorated that situation. Does the Minister have the ability to monitor that goal? Since the introduction of the loan system, the ChristenUnion has been calling for attention to students with disabilities or chronic illness. They, in particular, have shown a marked deterioration since the introduction of the loan system. This cabinet increases the Profile Fund by 2 million euros per year. Can the Minister urge the institutions to give priority to these students, students with disabilities? Does it intend to report specifically on this during the first reporting period planned for the summer of 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u52	I almost found it entrapment. Mr Bruins says: 'I very much appreciate that the aim is to ensure that students can complete their studies with as little guilt as possible.' I wonder why the Christian Union has opted for a coalition agreement with a measure that will raise interest rates. Isn't interest an excellent debt-raising principle? Isn't that a bit of a contradiction? That's what I asked the Minister. Is this other measure not almost contrary to the positive measures envisaged by this legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u53	It is no secret that the Christian Union would have preferred to have the basic grant back, but at the moment the current bill is ahead of us. The loan system was introduced at a time when interest rates were historically low. I'm sure that interest will rise at some point. That is actually a much more dangerous and worse thing. The glass ball was already coming by. We do not have it, but since it was introduced at a time when interest rates were historically low, we can expect that the lending system itself will cause more problems as soon as that interest rate rises again. That is, I think, a much more pregnant aspect than the coverage described in the current coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u54	I agree with that, by the way. In fact, I think you might be wondering if the government isn't occasionally irresponsible with its communication about possible risks of borrowing, even for a study, but that's a discussion for a later moment. The problem is that you can still say that a measure aimed at increasing interest income is contrary to the objective of the legislative proposal that is now before us. I know that the interest rate measure announced is not now in place, but I think it makes sense to see cabinet policy as a whole. Doesn't Mr Bruins see any contradiction here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u55	It is perhaps good to recall that the Christian Union has once proposed a motion to always mention, as with all lending facilities, in the loan system: 'Loaning money costs money'. There was no majority for that at the time. But we still think that we should really point this out, because we believe, in principle, that we should not burden the next generation with as much debt as possible, but with as little debt as possible. This proposal will help in this respect. At the same time, we also see the cover. But I think that in the future the lending system should eventually be seen in a completely different dimension when interest rates start to rise again. As far as I am concerned, this coverage is only a small factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u56	Carry on, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u57	Mr. Chairman. I have one more point of attention. The allowance will apply to students who will study for the first time from the 2018-2019 academic year. These students will then first take a three-year Bachelor's programme before they can start a university teacher's programme. These are masters. This means that the reduced tuition fees for university teacher training courses will only apply effectively per academic year 2021-2022. Does the Minister see any way to bridge that gap? Are there opportunities, for example, through the education masters grant scheme? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question about the implementation of the measures. It is good that the Minister is accelerating so much, but it is important that it is feasible for the implementing parties and that it is done carefully, because otherwise we are creating problems about ourselves. That is why I am asking how the Minister can assess this and how she can ensure that the proposal is implemented carefully. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the CDA, I am very pleased that I am here to discuss the bill for half the tuition fee and to take that bill one step further. In recent years, the CDA has been concerned about the increasing debt that students are building up. With the halving of tuition fees, we want to break that trend and meet students. Mr Futselaar asked: is that some kind of implicit recognition that there are thresholds? As far as the CDA is concerned, that is indeed the case, and you must look at this measure in the same way. By halving tuition fees for the second year of teacher training, we hope that more students will opt for teacher training courses. The shortage of teachers is considerable. This calls for measures to interest people in this beautiful profession in several places. We also understand that this measure does not in itself provide a sufficient solution to the shortage of teachers. However, it is a concrete addition to the series of measures taken by the Cabinet to combat the shortage of teachers. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Minister for having been able to extend this bill in such a way that it does not only apply to pabo students, that she has ensured that all new students in teacher training are eligible for half the tuition fee. That gives a very clear political signal. That's what the CDA's happy about. I am also pleased, on behalf of the CDA, that the Minister has chosen an instrument by which, in future, if necessary, we could choose, for example, to give other training courses room for halving of tuition fees. Perhaps that will allow us to take a number of steps here in the Chamber in the future. I agree with the plea that it should be done carefully. Mr. Chairman. In the written consultation I asked questions about the students of the Open University and other students who study flexible or dual. Why do they not qualify for half the tuition fee for a period of 60 credits? From the Minister's answers, I understood that this would only be feasible for the Open University and not for other courses, and that the choice was therefore made not to choose. I would like once again to confirm to the Minister that that is the crux, that it is attached to it. As a result, I would like to call on the Minister to work on a method for students who participate in the pilots in flexibilisation. In the context of lifelong learning, we will look at far more flexible arrangements. It would be a shame if this concession broke down in the execution at some point because we can't ride it all with the systems. I would very much like to ask the Minister, in the flexibilisation letters she gives us, to return to the Chamber what might eventually be done in the administration to enable study by study point, in part or in dual. For the CDA is certainly not certain whether we should continue to want this for the future, because the implementation problems are now quite understandable. Mr. Chairman. In addition, we have another concern, namely the possible misuse of the halving of tuition fees for training which is allowed to use the "small-scale and intensive education" feature. The law states that they may apply for legal tuition up to five times. Isn't the halving of tuition fees perhaps a reason for them to increase tuition fees? They don't have to, but you can ask yourself. How can the Minister ensure that this is not going to happen? Has it considered maximising tuition fees for these courses to, for example, the amount now applicable to other students? I would just like to refer to Mrs Tielen of the VVD. I also endorse her plea that, in this context, we should look in particular at side-intromers who, for example, would like to move towards teacher training. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to stress once again that, as a CDA, we are very pleased with the work of the Minister. It is an essential and important step for students to address the growing student debt and the accessibility of higher education. We hope to keep pace with the Minister so that students can also know with certainty that they will be able to use it as from the next academic year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u60	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we suspend the meeting now. After that, the Minister will have the opportunity to answer the questions of Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u61	We will continue the debate on the Law reduced legal tuition fees. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u62	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. We are discussing together today in this debate the bill of half the tuition fee agreed in the coalition agreement. That coalition agreement included the ambitious target of halving by the year 2018-2019. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its willingness to cooperate in the very early handling of this bill. I would also like to thank my own official staff, as some of you have already said, for the willingness of all sides to ensure that there is a legislative proposal very soon and that we are ready for implementation. That wasn't a small job. Indeed, I think it is important that next year we should be able to allow students to benefit from the halving of tuition fees and to inform them in good time. I will come back later to discuss this information. That is why we have made every effort to make this possible. This bill, this reduction in tuition fees, actually the halving of tuition fees, has a double objective: access to higher education, lowering the initial threshold to participate in education and thereby promoting equality of opportunity, and for teacher training seducing more people to choose the beautiful course of teacher, as Mr Van Meenen said. I want to build my answer in fours. First of all, I would like to address the questions raised about the generic measure, i.e. the halving of tuition fees in the first year for all students. The second block is about teacher training. The third block is about execution and communication and a fourth block is, as always, for all other questions. Many of you had the question of whether there was an unequal treatment of part-time workers. They study at a different pace. Is it appropriate there to do the half ring for a year, 12 months? Because for this generic measure, all students receive one year's half-time tuition. This also applies to full-time students. If they don't study nominally, they'll get one year. Moreover, it is not always the case that full-time students per se obtain more credits than part-time students. I myself once was one of those cases that sometimes received more than 60 credits a year as a part-time student; so it is possible. But that's really very individual. Thus, part-time students sometimes also programme more than 60 ECTS per year. There is a problem there if you would say that we are extending it for all part-time students to 24 months, because that does not mean that this will apply to the same number of credits. Moreover, this extension to 24 months would also cost extra money for all part-time students. So I am not in favour of this for budgetary reasons either. In addition, many of you have asked about students at the Open University. Shouldn't you be looking at that in a different way? The Open University, of course, has a very specific legal mission as an institution. For example, she must always admit adults. She has to enroll students per module and also offers part-time and distance learning. The same definition does not always apply in part-time training. But there is also no objective distinction between part-time students who follow their studies at Utrecht University, Leiden University of Applied Sciences or the Open University, when it comes to the pace at which people study. In any case, there is not a legally relevant enough distinction to say that one group is eligible for a reduction in tuition fees in a different way than the other group. In the written reply, I explained in detail that it also entails a huge burden if you want to monitor it per paid credit. Discount per credit point is actually, at present, an administratively useless way. Mr Van der Molen asked for this in the context of flex study. Of course, that's also a kind of pay per credit. That pilot's running now. It's gonna take a couple more years. I think we can really draw conclusions by 2020-2021. I fully agree with him that if flex study becomes the study method of the future, then perhaps we should see what we can do with the systems so that we can do so. But it's too early for that at the moment. I am not ruling it out for the distant future, but at the moment this is a really bleak road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u63	I see Mr Futselaar, but the Minister has just begun the subject of generic action. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u65	That's what you were doing? You weren't finished? Mr Futselaar asked if you would return to part-time training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u66	Actually, it's like this. Legally, the distinction cannot be made right. For part-time workers, they also sometimes earn more credits per year than full-time workers. Tracking study points is an administratively useless road. If you now say for part-time workers that it should be 24 months, that would cost an additional 6 million per year. In the budget I have for this measure, I do not have that space available, regardless of whether it would be legally sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u67	For the sake of clarity, the Minister says that it cannot be done at Open University, because it is not legally possible. If you want to do something, this is just my translation. So you will have to take part-time training in general. She also says you can't do it on a point. So if you do something, you're gonna have to do it in numbers of months. Then you look purely at what is feasible. That just happens to fit right into the motion I've got ready. The Minister says this is a generic measure. But the distinction between part-time and full-time students is, of course, there for a reason. That's already being made, and there's a reason for that. So I do not think that you are doing anything about the generic nature of the measure, which also has a certain purpose, by making this distinction. Indeed, some part-time students get more points. Some full-time students achieve much less points. But some full-time students also reach more than 60 ECTS points. It's possible. But let's look at averages. For example, when you talk to the Open University, it says very clearly: for the average student, 30 ECTS per year is really the maximum that is reached. It is not unreasonable, then, to make a broader approach to this, I would ask the Minister. The only real solid argument against that is the money. And that is ultimately a political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u68	You are right: it is a choice to do so. But you can't say that there's a one-on-one relationship between lowering the threshold and credits, and then having to be one 12 and the other 24. It is not always the case that a part-time student on the same number of credits does twice as long as a full-time student. In a lot of cases, I think even in most cases, I don't. Of course everything is fitting and measuring. There's a lot of choices in it. But if you choose that measure at the moment, it will cost extra resources. Then it will have to be printed somewhere else from the measure. Then I'm also curious if your motion provides for cover for that. As I said to Mr Van der Molen, we are currently looking at whether flex study is also an option in full-time education. Then you're gonna have to do something about following credits. I think it would be much more logical to wait for the moment of that evaluation to see if we should look at how we are now studying per credit and paying for the number of credits obtained, and what that means for this measure. That actually seems much more logical to me, because everything else you do now is actually quite random.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u69	I am going to talk a little bit about the Council of State, which is actually saying that this whole measure is arbitrary: we see a goal formulated, but we do not really have any convincing proof that this measure is going to achieve that goal. My proposed alternatives are really no different. I'm guessing it's gonna be fairer if you make it for part-time students for 24 months. Can I make that up with numbers? No, neither can the Minister make it clear that reducing tuition fees in the first 12 months will have large-scale effects. In the area of finance, this is a deviation of about 3.5% from the planned budget. Of course, the 175 million is also an estimate, because we do not have control over how many students are actually going to study and will therefore make use of this scheme. So in this case, I do not find it unreasonable to say that I have no clear coverage here. I think it would be logical for the Minister to look for this in her own budgets, should it come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u70	I always find it a bit easy when it is said: let the Minister look for it in her own budgets. As if we could look painlessly in our own budgets. It's always at the expense of something else. I find it a little easy to say: we know that it leads to a painful choice somewhere, but we have a wish and the Minister has to say where it has to go. So I think it would be fair if you gave an indication of that. Back to the purpose of this measure. The goal is not to give an exact reduction in tuition fees for exactly the number of credits you study. The aim of this measure is to help people across the threshold in higher education. We know from research that the prospect of a substantial reduction in that first year does indeed help. Of course, we can come up with endless variations. I can also follow your reasoning, but you also say: I suspect that. So they're estimates. But again, I made a different choice in that regard, precisely with the aim of helping people across that threshold in that first year. If you spread the same reduction over several years, it does not always fit better with the actual number of credits obtained from part-time students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u71	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u72	I could table a motion in which I propose that in the first 12 months not to give a 50% discount but a 48% discount, and I think I will be around. But actually, I think that's a bummer. 6 million is quite a lot of money, but on the total of the budgets that we are talking about here, it is really very little! And then to make strange leaps; I do not think that is actually the job of a Chamber, which gives guidelines. A number of students have considerable barriers to study. Some of them are in the target group of the Open University. This is a small adjustment, which makes it easier for that particular group of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u73	We differ in this regard. I don't think we're gonna agree on this tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u74	I get that impression, too. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u75	Mrs Tielen had asked whether the halving would be desirable for small-scale and intensive education. Is there supposed to be a halving in there? If you limit the discount to about €1,000, would you not be able to use it to promote side-intromers in education? I understand Mrs Tielen's question very well. She's actually looking to see if, given the shortage of teachers we're dealing with, we can maximise the incentive to get more side-intromers in education. I'm gonna go into where she wants to get the money. The aim of this bill is to contribute to accessibility and equality of opportunity, including for small-scale and intensive education, which is more expensive. Mrs Tielen says that she does not want to halve the tuition fees for this but wants to collect €1,000. This makes it relatively more expensive compared to other education. Thus, the equality of opportunity is reduced, while the aim of this measure in the coalition agreement was to promote equality of opportunity. That's why I don't make that choice. The government agreement also states that tuition fees should be halved and does not distinguish between the types of training. I understand Mrs Tielen's question with regard to side-intromers. She then means, if I understand correctly, students who have already completed a study and then want to do another study to work in education. This totals about 9 000 students, who are therefore taking a second course of study. More than 6,000 students pay legal tuition fees and 2,700 institution tuition fees. Those more than 6,000 students can already take a second study against legal tuition fees. Thus, they already have an advantage on the basis of a previous measure. The group that pays institutional tuition fees already has a degree in care or education. Those who already have a degree in education can get started in education and can then continue to receive further training. We have all kinds of measures for this in the framework of the teacher grant. If you want to get a first degree degree or get an extra degree, you can. We have all kinds of variants of the teacher's scholarship for that. Then there's the group that already has a health education. We also have serious shortages in the labour market in the care sector. We would like people who already have completed training in healthcare to get to work in healthcare as soon as possible. I do not think it would be very effective to use public funds to compete with Mr De Jonge, who has sent a plan of action to the Chamber on how these people can get to work in healthcare as quickly as possible. I would then, as a colleague, use resources to remove those people from care. Then we're competing in a crazy way. That is why it is not happening. I'll be right back to the reconnaissance we're making, hoping to meet you. By the way: for the deficit sections we have a scheme for the master. If you want to do a master's degree in a deficit class, you will receive an allowance of €3,000 to €5,000, also in the coming year. There seems to be a feeling that this scheme will no longer exist in the coming school year, but it will still exist next year. Moreover, there is currently an exploration of the thresholds for side-intromers. The first impression we get from that exploration is that the threshold is not so much in the tuition fees that one has to pay. The threshold concerns the obstacles to earning an income. So we are looking to ensure that they are able to work much faster in education, earn an income and also complete their training. That might be the most effective way to seduce those side-instromers. Before the summer, I'll come to the Chamber with the results of that reconnaissance. I think we can then see what the most effective measure is to seduce side-instromers. If there is anything extra necessary for that, we can talk about it in the budget. I think your concerns are justified. I also think it is right that you should ask: what can we do to help side-intromers? But to do it this way now may not be the right way, because then you take money away from it, when I think: that is not the way to do it, because that reduces the odds. And it may well be that we don't tackle the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u76	I thank the Minister for recognizing it. It's always fun when we at least talk in the same field. I hear the Minister's coming up with the results of the reconnaissance before the summer. I'd like to hear this confirmed. Then we know what the exploration around the thresholds for side-intromers has resulted in and what conclusions can be drawn. The point is that we are now discussing this bill towards the AMvB. I think that's why we're running apart from each other in terms of time. How can we ensure that everything we are discussing will not melt into the warmth of the summer recess and then be over?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u77	If you do not want to make a full reduction in tuition fees for small-scale intensive education, you will be free to pay about 2.5 million, which can then be used for that measure. I do not think that is a proper implementation of the coalition agreement. In doing so, we will cut into what this measure is intended to do: to promote accessibility and equality of opportunity. Then you make the relative accessibility and the equality of opportunity for small-scale intensive education for a particular group in society a little less. At the same time, I am very willing to see where the obstacles are for those side-instromers. Once again, they may be involved in measures that are not so much related to the financial compensation but rather the question: how do we organise people to get to work as quickly as possible? I therefore believe that, in the context of next year's budget preparation, we should look at how we can meet this group. You may ask that of me. But as I look at the problem now, I do not see that it is mainly a financial issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u78	A brief question from Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u79	I wonder if the Minister can explain what is about the difference between 'an uncovered motion I must discourage' and 'I hear an idea and I will look at the budget for maximum space'. I believe that there is a difference of treatment. I'm fine with it when it's said: if you want to change this law, you also have to explain how you want to pay it. But I would like to advise the Minister: just ensure a consistent line with the opposition and the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u80	Then Mr. Futselaar didn't quite listen to what I said. What I am trying to make clear is that, in view of the initial results of the exploration, we have the impression that the problem is not in the financial compensation. It is precisely the possibility of simply letting side-intromers who are in the process of their training get to work in education. Then they simply earn their own income and do not so much need that financial compensation. So it may well be a measure that does not have to cost very much. In addition, we also have a budget for this in the context of tackling the shortage of teachers. I can see whether we can do what is necessary to address this problem by redeploying the budget. I agree with Mrs Tielen that we should do the best we can to meet those side-intromers. That's different from the problem you raised. That costs 6 million, and I wonder if that has the same urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u81	Please continue. I think this is a nice little bridge to the next subject, teacher training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u82	A little bridge to teacher training... Well, a number of general questions have been asked and I think that the spokesmen are entitled to an answer to that. Mr Bruins asked whether this measure would contribute to reducing student student student's student debt. Yes, it is, because if you have to pay €1,000 less, you also build up €1,000 less debt. Mr Futselaar asked whether thresholds had arisen following the introduction of the study advance. We see in the monitor, which has also been sent to the Chamber, that the influx into the full-time bachelor has not fallen, but has risen rather, and is actually just up and running again, exactly as expected with the introduction of the study advance. We see the traditional patterns of participation. What we only hope with this measure is that one will look a little less at the financial issue when one takes the threshold to study, but will simply look at the substantive wishes that one has. So that the qualitative balance gets better and we seduce more people into teacher training. Mr Futselaar also asked whether I could not have come up with a more targeted action. We wanted to lower the threshold for everyone, so you choose a generic measure. That's why it's a half ring for all freshmen. The interruption debate with Mr Van Meenen already showed that Mr Futselaar was very much in favour of the basic grant. That too was a very generic measure. Mr Futselaar asked, like Mr Beertema, whether it is not unfair for the cohorts 2015-2016, 2016-2017 and 2017-2018. You've asked before if we can't take it with us. However, you also know that this would cost 372 million extra. So that's not what was chosen. In addition, that group is eligible for vouchers and has benefited from the pre-investments. Moreover, even at the time when the basic grant was introduced, I can remember that moment very well, because I was a student at the time... there were groups of students who could not benefit from it. If you introduce a generic measure, there are always pre-courses that do not have one. That's a fact when you change something. In this context, you also asked whether it would be possible to use the vouchers earlier than after five years. Then it is important to see what that voucher is for. It was intended to promote lifelong learning by enabling students to use a voucher five years after graduation to train. In that period of five to ten years that we make available, you can make a balanced choice. That is really the substantive argument. Besides, if you want to bring it all out, that's a pretty big cash drawer. I don't have the resources for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u83	In the context of lifelong learning, it is, of course, rather strange to choose a specific period of five years within which those vouchers should be used. I don't think five years is a lifetime. In fact, I'll bet you if you look at the age at which people look for the least education that's probably about that category. Those people recently graduated and just started working. They're probably gonna be less retrained. Then there is the financial resources. We will have to cough up those vouchers at some point, in five to ten years' time, so those resources should be there or should be taken into account. Well, at least you have a budget. That is completely unclear, but at least you have a theoretical budget that you should be able to use earlier. Doesn't the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u84	Again, there are two reasons not to do this. We have chosen that period to, in the context of lifelong learning, if you have been working for a while to go back to school, also from the idea that we have to get rid of the fact that you are only studying in the first part of your life and not anymore. Therefore, that reasoning and the financial argument. Somewhere that amount has been taken into account, but you also know that if you suddenly bring up these amounts in the budgetary system, then you will also have to postpone other expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u85	Five to ten years after graduation is still at the beginning of your life, I dare guarantee as a 38-year-old. In general, this is not the Minister's fault, because it has not been introduced. I conclude that the periodisation of those vouchers and the design of the system are mainly aimed at ensuring that they are used as little as possible, and I find that a sad observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u86	And I'll leave it on your account. Mr Özdil asked for or could not have been chosen for a quarter and then put the rest in the supplementary grant. In theory, that could have happened, but there were two reasons not to. However, it has been chosen to allow this reduction in the first year to really go for a substantial amount. The smaller the amount, the less likely it will have effect. That's actually the main reason for doing this right now. Moreover, in my view, Mr Bishop said that even if you focus mainly on that supplementary grant, it is mainly for one category, namely low incomes, and this is precisely what those middle incomes benefit from. Mr Beertema asked whether this would not lead to a draining effect within the EU. Tuition fees in the Netherlands are relatively high compared to many other European countries, such as Germany and Belgium. You mentioned Maastricht University. Those countries, Germany and Belgium, are cheaper than the Netherlands and yet students choose the Netherlands. So they don't do that because of the amount of tuition fees. I was in Maastricht last week or the week before, and I spoke to many students there. The reason for this is precisely the quality of education and much less the tuition fees, because it is precisely for them that it is cheaper at home. I therefore do not expect this aspirating effect in the context of this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u87	No, but okay. Surely that should encourage the universities of North Rhine-Westphalia to work on quality? Why do we have to solve the problem of North Rhine-Westphalia? That's my first question. Then there's my second question. In the United Kingdom it is indeed very much more expensive and the Dutch universities are extremely popular there, so you will undoubtedly get a sucking effect for students from the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u88	I am afraid we are about to have the whole debate on internationalisation again. I wasn't going to. Nor am I solving a problem of North Rhine-Westphalia. I am only very proud that we have very good quality education, which students choose and choose very consciously, which is perhaps a different choice than you would like to take in a whole range of international classrooms. That is what students experience as a very great added value and let us also cherish it a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u89	I like being so proud, but you are proud of the Dutch taxpayer's costs. How many of these students go to North Rhine-Westphalia to go to that lesser education? Why do we have to solve Germany's problems? It is a bit crazy to say: I am so proud of that quality of Maastricht, let them all come to me. You manage Dutch taxpayers' tax money! How difficult that is, I'd like to yell in your ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u90	Mr. Beertema, perhaps unlike you, I am proud that we are an open society working together in Europe. I also hope very much, and that is what we are trying to encourage in Europe, for example, through Erasmus+, that more Dutch students will also study elsewhere in Europe. So let us share this with ourselves, because this cooperation between universities and the exchange between students in Europe is very valuable. It's got added value. You and I are not going to agree on that, but I do think that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u91	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u92	Never the twain shall meet, I'll say. But, of course, with Henk and Ingrid's tax dollars, let me bring them in again, practice your private D66 hobby and then step into your bed with a very warm feeling: oh, how proud I am! I think it's too scandalous for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u93	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u94	This Ingrid really likes to pay taxes for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u96	Mr. Chairman. I now come to the issue of teacher training. For teacher training courses, not only for pabos but for all teacher training courses, tuition fees are halved for two years. We have also made choices in this measure. I would like to point out to some of you that you still have some questions about why exactly that is where the line was drawn and whether something can be done about it. Mr Bruins asked about, among other things, university teacher training. Then it's a master's degree. It would mean that you wouldn't be eligible for this until a later academic year and not now. The VSNU has sometimes claimed that this would be a three-year gap. I would like to point out once again that the current regime for deficit areas is still in force until the year 2018-2019, so students who are starting that master's programme as of 1 September can still apply. Of course, it is technically possible to extend this scheme for the next two years, but I am also talking about a total amount of about 8 million. So that also requires extra costs. Furthermore, we are really referring to the arrangement of halving for those students who are now the first to join the education system. Mr Bruins also asked: can you monitor the effect on the shortage of teachers? Can we go see if this measure really leads to more students opting for teacher training? As already mentioned and as I think explained in the written preparation, the impact of this entire legislative proposal, of the whole measure, is monitored through the annual Monitor on Higher Education Policies. It will be published in the first half of 2019. In this we will pay attention to the motives and intentions of prospective students to transfer or not to higher education and to impacts on the inflow rates, both generic and teacher training. I think Mr Beertema asked earlier: are you going to monitor that too? Yeah, so we're gonna monitor if these measures have an impact on the influx. As far as the other actions are concerned, in my view, you asked me to do the same as those we have initiated in order to combat the shortage of teachers, and this autumn you will have the progress report plan on teacher deficit, also because I think it is important that we should have a good discussion on the budget: do we do the right thing and do we have to adjust it? That's the information you're getting. In that context, Mr Beertema asked: is it desirable that we should try to seduce people with financial incentives to opt for teacher training? The Policy Measures Monitor has shown what students now consider. That is a labour market perspective, fortunately, I would say, but also a future salary. The cost of the training is also mentioned as a reason to study or not to start a study. If, for financial reasons, more students who hesitated earlier opt for teacher training, that seems to me to be a good result. Are these students sufficiently motivated? Seems like it to me. That teacher training is also spicy enough. If you're not really motivated by that profession, you're not going to finish that education with good results. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the block of communication and execution. Mr Van Meenen, Mr Bruins and I also believe a number of others said that it is important that we reach all those incoming students in a good way and that the institutions and students are aware of this measure in good time. This is why, at the start of the internet consultation, an information page Halvering tuition fees were placed on Rijksoverheid.nl. A promotional film was made as the start of an online campaign on social media. After the treatment in the Lower House there is also an infographic, which we will spread via social media. The institutions of higher education were already informed of this measure by letter in January 2018. After this treatment in the Lower House we will do it again. The institutions of MBO and secondary education have also been informed through newsletters so that they can also inform their students. From May onwards, in anticipation of the introduction, the authorisations already go out. The authorization that students receive will therefore also include the reduced tuition fee. If this bill is not adopted, Mr Futselaar asked for it too, then of course students should not suffer. In the coming year they will simply pay half the tuition fees and the institutions will be compensated. That is a risk we have had to take in order to do so in good time, but I have already noticed in your Chamber tonight that the measure can be accepted in such a way that I am not very worried about it. But we did think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u97	It wasn't so much about what the consequences might be if the bill wasn't passed. I was more concerned when something did not go well in the execution, such as problems with registrations at institutions etc. You can imagine anything. Also in this area, student funding and tuition fees have not always had a happy history. You can say that it lies with the institution, if something goes wrong there, but it would be good if there were a certain degree of responsibility with the Ministry, given the rush that it is in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u98	Sure. We take that responsibility, too. In any case, it's a priority that students shouldn't get hurt. I very much agree with you. Mrs. Tielen had a fair question. If students are going to borrow more than they need for the adapted tuition fees, do we foresee problems because the adjustments at DUO will not be ready as of September 2018? Extra communication is provided for students. I just said that. The amount students can borrow is no longer standard at maximum. We have adapted this before to ensure that students will make a more conscious choice. In spring 2019, DUO will adapt the systems to this point, so students will no longer be able to borrow at the high rate throughout the following year. Mr Futselaar asked about the agreements with the higher education institutions on compensation. I'm in agreement with the domes. We'll have the next meeting tomorrow morning. I expect to make very clear agreements on this shortly. In any case, we expect to make the final points there, because that is what we are talking about before the parliamentary processes of the legislative proposal are completed. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bruins asked if we are going to make the timetable. Yeah, we're gonna get that. It's a very tight timeline. This requires a great deal of effort from all those involved, but so far all steps have been taken in the right order. It also seems that, for example, those authorisations can be properly removed. So, yeah, we're gonna get that. Mr Futselaar asked: if these implementation costs increase, for example through legal proceedings or appeals, who is going to pay for that? It is important that the conditions are very clear. We have taken a good look at this in the legislative proposal. The institutions do not have very much freedom of policy in that regard. Objections to an institution therefore do not make much sense, so we do not expect so many appeals. There is also a very clear commitment to communication so that everyone knows very well in advance whether or not he is eligible for that reduced tuition fee. So we do not expect many appeals in this respect. I have talked about the compensation of the institutions. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the other block. Mr Van der Molen asked a good question, but I have already answered that question. It was about how we study in the future. It's about flex study. In the long run, shouldn't you be adjusting to study by study point and keep up with it? There is now an experiment with a duration of six years. This will be evaluated after four years, in 2021. An interim monitor will follow in 2019. These seem to me to be a good time to have that debate and to see if this does not ask for a different way of looking at the payment. Mr Futselaar and Mr Özdil said that students receive a reduction in tuition fees on the one hand, but on the other hand we have the measure of ten-year interest. I believe that Mr van der Molen said in the event of interruption that you cannot put these things so side by side. The reduction in tuition fees is specifically aimed at students who are going to study as a first-year student in the coming year. Very important in increasing the interest rate rate is that the rating scheme for students does not change. Any former student who has to pay back remains protected from excessive monthly expenses. No matter how high your student debt is, you only pay back when your income exceeds the minimum wage and you never have to spend more than 4% of every euro above that to pay off your student debt. That burden-sharing arrangement therefore remains in force. Mr Van der Molen was right to point out that even in time this is quite different, because the reduction in tuition fees is now costing money, while the increase in interest rates is only going to generate revenue in the longer term, in 2060. You can't put this next to each other from person to person. Those amounts may happen to be somewhere close, but you cannot translate that one-on-one per person. So, no, that has nothing to do with each other. Mr Özdil van GroenLinks asked if I had considered reducing the teaching and training fees in the MBO. No, I didn't consider that in this context. It's good to explain why. Students in the MBO only pay their tuition fees from the age of 18. The tuition fee for full-time MBO training is about €1.037 and for part-time MBO training or BBL training €573. In the MBO students still receive a basic grant. That's $82.50 for someone who lives at home and $270 for someone who lives out. That is actually more than the €1,000 reduction that students get in higher education. In addition, there is also the additional scholarship for MBO students. That supplementary scholarship also includes a fee for tuition fees. There was therefore no reason to adopt similar measures for the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u99	I understand what the Minister is saying. Only, one nuance: MBO students who are less than 18 years old are therefore not entitled to the grants available. And research shows that there is an obstacle in accessibility especially for those groups of students. That is why I am asking this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u100	But for MBO students under 18, there are also other amounts. In addition, there are other allowances through the parents, through family allowances and the child-related budget, which Mr Bishop pointed out to me in a small debate. So your reasoning is not going around, because there are other arrangements for that. Mr President, Mr Bruins asked me about students with disabilities. He is right to draw attention to this. If I want something, it is that I also want to guarantee access for students with disabilities. That is why the coalition agreement also provides for an intensification of the profiling fund of 2 million in structural terms. I have agreed in the sector agreements with the VSNU and the Association of Colleges of Education that these funds are actually being used for students who need additional support and guidance, such as for students with disabilities and chronic diseases, but also for pregnant students and students with psychological problems. I have already promised to send you a monitor this summer to see how these profiling funds are used for the educational institutions and whether we should adjust them. So your question is a little early at the moment, but it has my full attention. Mr. Chairman. A number of amendments have been tabled, which I would like to give a brief opinion on. First of all, the amendment on item No. 9 by Mr Futselaar and Mr Özdil on the nomination of a general administrative measure. I fully understand the thinking behind this amendment. In that sense, it is also a sympathetic amendment. I would like to thank you in this context for paying attention to the planning of the AMvB that is now coming. It is, of course, quite clear that a significant adjustment of the tuition fees regime requires the approval of Parliament. A few examples came along which I think you would not be wise as a minister not to inform the Chamber well in advance. However, I am not going to recommend this amendment. Why? If this amendment is adopted, it means that any amendment to the AMvB relating to tuition fees, however small, must be submitted to the Chamber. Changes of dimes and quarters, very small shifts, should therefore be put forward. In that sense, the scope of the amendment is really too wide. I do not recommend this amendment because it makes our system inflexible. We know how sensitive measures around tuition are. It would not occur to me to include such measures in an AMvB without having properly informed the Chamber. But to make every change by means of a front-end procedure, I'm just going a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u101	But we are drafting legislation not for this minister, but for all ministers in the future. And you never know what you'll get. As for making it flexible: if it's okay, your tuition money really doesn't change more than once a year. If you do it more often than that, there's something really wrong, and then the parliament has to find something about it anyway. Voorhang also means that the Chamber can choose not to deal with it. That often makes sense when it comes to inflation correction or something like that. So it seems to me above all a guarantee that if something strange, unexpected or politically controversial happens, then you still have the opportunity to intervene. Quite specifically, if this amendment is not adopted, we do not have that option. And that's a big deal to me anyway. Doesn't the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u102	Yes, it is a matter of roads, but I therefore advise against the amendment, and I warn you that it may be very small changes. It's not a law of Medes and Persians for me either. I have to trust the Chamber to handle that wisely. Once again, it will not happen that there is a minister, no matter what minister after me, who is going to propose amendments to that point which would be controversial and which you can sense that there is a debate in the Chamber about, after which that minister would ignore that wish. You can weigh this on both sides. It's kind of a dime on his side for me, too. But for the reason I have given, I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u103	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u104	Then there is the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Futselaar. It is a bit of a crazy figure to table an amendment in this debate to amend the General Child Benefits Act. As I understand it, I was not there on the subject when the study advance was introduced. It was then decided, for well considered reasons, not to change family allowances in this respect. I'm sticking to that point of view. In this sense, the amendment has been dissuaded. If Mr Bishop wishes to have a debate at some point with the Minister for Social Affairs on child benefit, that is of course always very welcome. Then there is Mrs Tielen's amendment, in which she calls for an evaluation. The topics to be evaluated are already in the annual monitor. The usual time limit for the evaluation of a law is five years. You could still consider changing the deadline in five years, but if the Chamber says it wants to do so sooner for its magical reasons, it can of course do so. However, you have to ask yourself whether you can say a great deal about the operation of a measure in the short term. But I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. I would, however, suggest that you reconsider whether you should set that deadline to five years. Mr. Chairman. This was my opinion on the amendments and my answers to the questions raised in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u105	Thank you. Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u106	Mr. Chairman. May I ask for a short suspension to prepare our second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u107	Depends on how long you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u108	Yeah, what's short? When I asked the question, I did realize it. A minute or ten? Is that acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u109	Let's do that. Then I assume you'll be holding a short and powerful second term very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u110	You can count on us, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u111	That's good. I'll hold you to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u112	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given and for the answers he has given to our questions and the statements he has made. In the meantime I haven't gotten any more apps from 5 havo- or 6 vwo-scholiers, so I think they've really dropped out by now, but that aside. The communication of DUO about the amount to be borrowed. I was glad to see that maximation is already down. So I'm assuming DUO can communicate in such a way that students do well. So that's nice. Then there are the points I have raised about the increased legal tuition fees and the side-instromers. The Minister speaks of inequality of opportunity. The point is, of course, that honesty and equality always depend a little on the point of view. So the Minister is right, but I think I'm right too. We can argue about that for a long time, but I do not think that is very convenient. We're both gonna stick to this and I'm gonna leave it the way it is right now. I also like to look with the glasses of equality of opportunity at the extra incentive for the side-intromers. Then I see a number of groups that are not given as much motivation as others to go beyond the financial threshold in doubt. I have heard very well that the Minister is investigating whether these financial thresholds are the only ones. I look forward to that, as we have already heard in the interruption. However, I would also very much like to draw attention to the group which has completed an education and still has to pay the institution tuition fees, because that group must be extra motivated to become a teacher. I would like the Minister to look at whether there is more equality of opportunity. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u114	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u115	Mr. Chairman. As far as the amendment is concerned... No, let me first say thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. She's defending her unevenly with verve, where that plays. However, as far as the amendment is concerned, I would like to make an attempt to get closer. I understand that she says: I do not want to send a piece to the Chamber for two quarters. I am prepared, in consultation with the Legal Service of the Chamber, to look for substantive changes to the wording, i.e. more than the changes in detail. I would like to add that if tomorrow proves impossible it will have to be tomorrow, because we are going to vote on Thursday, then I will put the amendment to the vote as it is now, because I think too much parliamentary control is more important at the moment than no parliamentary control. At least that's what I want to do. Then there are two motions, which will not surprise the people who have heard the first term. The first concerns part-time students. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has announced that the legal tuition fees for first-year students are to be halved per AMvB;]] [[noting that, under certain circumstances, students opt for part-time training;]] [[Whereas in this way these students are unnecessarily disadvantaged compared to students starting studies elsewhere in higher education;]] [[invites the government to halve tuition fees for part-time training for 24 months per AMvB instead of 12 months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34911-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u116	If there are any parties who say "by principle I am not voting in favour of uncovered motions, but if you find cover, I will vote in favour of it": fine, I am willing to adapt it. But if the answer is "we're not going to support her," then I'm not going to bother. But let's face it, 6 million can be found if necessary. Mr. Chairman. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students who started studying in 2015/2016, 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 have not received a basic grant and are not now receiving any reduction in tuition fees;]] [[noting that these students receive a voucher worth €2,000 in the course of their HBO-bachelor or wo-bachelor plus master and that this voucher can only be used from five years to ten years after the diploma is obtained;]] [[Whereas, for the first time, these students had to deal with the loan system, experience the least of the improvement in quality and may have to pay higher interest rates on their student loan in the future;]] [[considers that these students have to pay disproportionately for their studies;]] [[Calls on the Government to issue these vouchers to students who started in the 2015/2016, 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 academic years and have completed an HBO or wo-bachelor;]] [[invites the Government to make it possible for these students to use this voucher for a master's degree of their choice, immediately after obtaining their HBO or wo-bachelor diploma,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34911-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u117	Mr. Van Meenen is coming forward. Is that an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u118	No, I'm not. Mr. Van Meenen uses his second term. Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. You were all ready to answer, but it wasn't necessary. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u119	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive reply and, once again, for the much work that has been put into it. I very much hope that Mr Futselaar will manage to amend his amendment on the front so that it can have our blessing, because I too, like him, should not think that he will be here later as a minister and then take this kind of action. However, should that happen, my group will be considering supporting it. Mr. Chairman. I should also like to wish the Minister and her officials a great deal of wisdom, as well as the same progress in the First Chamber, so that, as of the new school year, many students can take advantage of the halving of tuition fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u120	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I now give the floor to Mr Özdil on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank colleagues for the debate and the Minister for her answers. GroenLinks considers the proposal to halve tuition fees in the first year and for teacher training courses in the second year to be a good proposal. However, as Mr Van Meenen rightly pointed out, there is a way to make this good proposal even better. Hence the next handout. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the bill should increase the access to higher education by half tuition fees;]] [[Whereas the accessibility of higher education is further enhanced by focusing on students whose parents can pay little or no part of the training;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce tuition fees by one quarter in the first year and teacher training in the first two years;]] [[calls on the Government to use the funds released to increase the supplementary grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34911-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u123	Thank you, Mr. Özdil. I give the floor to Mr Bertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. But, like the Council of State, I am not convinced by the Minister's argument. This measure to halve tuition fees is not going to have the effect envisaged by the cabinet. And that is very expensive: 740 million to 2022 and structurally 175 million from 2023. I am certainly not convinced of the effect that foreign students have on foreign students, especially from the United Kingdom, and I also witness the way in which the Minister talks about Maastricht University. Understand me well, and I want the Minister to understand me well: that university is allowed to internationalize from me to the bone, but rather as a private institution, what is against it? Not with Dutch taxpayers' money. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, at the moment, I am strongly considering advising my group to vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u125	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. Finally, Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I note that there is broad support in the Chamber for the bill. I see Mr Özdil making a bit of moving movements, but he is not going to vote against if his motion is not adopted. I'd think that was really weird. But that's what we're gonna see. Mr. Chairman. I have not yet received an answer to one question I have asked. That was my question about the courses that are allowed to apply for increased tuition fees. If you're a bit of a doomthinker, you could say: that's a great opportunity to raise the price. But the minister said, "I don't see that happening." I would very much like a response from the Minister. How can she guarantee we're not going that way? This could be an undesirable side effect. I also agree with Mrs Tielen van de VVD's comment on side-intromers. For us as CDA, the group of people who want to go into education, for example, is particularly important, but are confronted with institutional tuition fees. That is one of the groups that the Minister should not overlook when she comes to the Chamber with her broader approach before the summer, because this group may have a role to play in the level of tuition fees. We would be very sorry to miss talented people for class. So I invite the Minister to say something about that. What can we expect from her for the summer? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u127	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I think the Minister can respond immediately. That's the case, I see. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u128	Thank you, Mr President. It is nice to note that the proposal has very broad support here, because I think we are taking a very nice step for students. Mrs Tielen mentioned the havo and vwo students, for whom it is an exciting week, perhaps not because of this bill but because they are working on their last school week. To be honest, I hope they didn't look. I've got one of my own at home and I hope she studied hard tonight, so she's gonna pass the finals. Because that step has to be taken first. Mrs Tielen asked a question about the side-intromers. Mr Van der Molen also just asked: what exactly can we count on for the summer? Mrs Tielen, of course, has a point. When we talk about equality of opportunity, she would like all those who want to be teachers to be able to receive training. If there are more costs involved than the other, we must see if we can allow everyone to take that step. As I said in the first term, we are currently exploring which bumps these groups experience. This may be about people who have been trained at the pabo but want to work in secondary education or vice versa, or people who have to obtain another competence. I can imagine all kinds of groups. We're going to explore where there are still thresholds. You will hear from me before the summer whether those thresholds are in the tuition fees or in the ability to get right to work. Sometimes it is the way the training is offered. There are many variants imaginable. If there are financial thresholds, I will inform your Chamber of this and you can expect me to look for a solution to that. I am very grateful to Mr Futselaar for seeing whether he can restrict the amendment so that it is only about substantial changes in tuition fees and therefore an AMvB in which it really is an essential proposal. I expect that in the course of the day and in the run-up to the votes, we will be in contact with them tomorrow. I am also very willing to think with you about how this can be done, not because I fear that you will one day become a minister, but because I can feel that you are committed to parliamentary control in these matters. That is what the amendment is about. Mr Futselaar has also tabled two motions. The Futselaar motion in part No. 12 is about a half-life in 24 months for part-time students. Again, all students, no matter how they study, will receive one year's halving according to this proposal. This also applies to full-time students if they do not study nominally, so it takes more than a year. And again, part-time students do not always get less credits per year than full-time students. We are also trying to keep it simple in the implementation and to put a certain rational underneath it. 24 months for part-time students is more expensive at the moment. That's 6 million extra. So I advise against that motion. Then the motion Futselaar in part No. 13. You will not be surprised that I am not in favour of this in view of the change in the first term. So I also advise against that motion. With the voucher four cohorts of students can study again after completing their study career. Because of the time window of between five and ten years, it can be an incentive for lifelong learning. That's the way it was designed at the time. That's how it's laid down in the law. I really want to give that system a chance and not actually change it again before we have seriously tried. Moreover, its implementation would also be extremely complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u129	Would the Minister be prepared to inform the Chamber before the summer of how this system will now be put into practice? It will, of course, have to be active in five years at the earliest, so to speak. How does that work? How do people ask that? What kind of budgets are there? I'm actually interested in that, because I don't think it's something we should be dealing with until 2023. It's a little bit off the law. But while we are talking about it, I would like to get some more information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u130	I promised earlier in the debate and pointed out that we have the monitoring measures study funding. It is actually about all the measures we take in the context of higher education and what effects they have. You're asking me to inform the Chamber before the summer. I think that monitor's coming in the fall. I'll take a look back. Am I right? I don't see anyone responding. I think everyone's busy doing something else. Will the monitor be taking any action in the fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u131	It says here in the first half of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u132	Okay. First half of 2019. That's just noted as a commitment. I'd like to take it with me in that monitor. We can go back to reporting on all the measures separately. If you'll allow me to include that in that monitor, I'll explicitly include it and you'll be reported on it. I see Mr Futselaar nodding. So the motion continues to be dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 14 by Mr Özdil. I'd advise against it. We have changed that in the first term. A substantial reduction in tuition fees has been explicitly chosen, because, of course, we cannot prove anything hard at the moment, but the conviction is that you need that substantial change in order to really reduce the threshold. Moreover, there is also a desire to reduce the threshold not only for lower incomes but also for middle incomes. The €1,000 also has meaning for this. Finally. Mr Van der Molen asked me whether the halving of tuition fees in small-scale intensive education could have an increasing effect on tuition fees. In practice, these courses now charge an average of €3,600 tuition fees. That's between €3,000 and €4,000. They're not asking for the maximum. Let me put that to you, too. We do not expect these institutions to increase the legal tuition fees in response to this half-life, because then they will have to do the same for all other students who are now second to fourth years. This makes the entire training less attractive. So they'd cut their own fingers with that. So the institutions also have an interest in keeping tuition fees as moderate as possible. Honestly, I'm not expecting that. Moreover, participation is also watching. We'll also monitor if it doesn't happen. I think that the most important guarantee that it will not happen is that the institutions will cut their own fingers. Mr President, that concludes my second-term response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u133	Thank you. That's also the last term of this evening. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-24-tweedekamer-38.u134	We will be voting on the law, the amendments tabled and the motions for resolutions next Thursday. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery, the people who have followed this debate through a different medium and, of course, the stenography service, the messengers and the officials. Have I forgotten someone? The clerks. Have a nice evening and I'll see you tomorrow.
