ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u1	Today we begin with Mr Kops's questions on behalf of the PVV to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, who replaces the Minister. You're very welcome. I call Mr Kops. His question is about the message that the energy bill is rising to a record height.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet makes energy priceless. A few months ago it was announced that next year the energy bill would go up by as much as €150. Over and over again, the PVV has already mentioned this in a debate: this is scandalous; the common man and woman are being plucked bare; this simply cannot be done. Each time, the Minister of EZK said two things. Firstly, yes, it is true that the energy bill goes up by €150. Secondly, the rising energy costs are compensated; you have to look at the overall purchasing power picture and then people are getting better, according to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It's just not true! We're being fooled. Because yesterday it was announced that the energy bill is rising twice as fast, with no less than €300. What about the so-called total purchasing power bill? And how is the Secretary of State going to compensate all those households, who are already struggling to make a monthly living? Is she finally going to make a mark on this expensive climate policy? And if they don't, then households are just screwed and they're gonna pay hard. This is where climate policy leads. This is climate policy in practice: the ordinary man and woman must bleed. If they want to turn on the light and the heating during these dark days before Christmas, they must first ask themselves whether they can afford it. Research carried out by the Nibud has shown that nearly one and a half million households have difficulty in paying the energy bill. In fact, almost half a million households are cut off from energy. That's impossible, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? At the same time, we are told time and time again: no, it all remains affordable. What does the Secretary of State say to all those households who are already in the dark? Please come up with a solution, or else: be ashamed!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad I get to replace the minister. He is in Poland to talk to colleagues about the measures needed by the rapid change in the climate. Mr Kops asked questions about an article in De Telegraaf. The essence of my speech here is that, as far as I am concerned, the amounts in that article do not correspond to an average household. The article is based on a consumption of a triple household of 3,500 kWh electricity and 1,500 m gas. This is more than 25% higher than the average consumption in the Netherlands. The average consumption of a Dutch household is estimated at just over 2,500 kWh of electricity and just over 1,100 m of gas for 2019. The article also states that electricity prices will increase by 3% and gas prices by 7% inclusive of VAT. This would mean that the increase would be 60% and 25% respectively. This seems unrealistic to me. The estimate based on the 2017 National Energy Exploratory shows a decrease in electricity prices between 2018 and 2019. The affordability of the energy transition is a very important point for this cabinet. Everyone must be able to participate. If the household wallet suffers too much from the transition, the support will disappear. Of course, the energy bill does not stand alone for households. You should also look at the broader income policy. Income tax goes down. You need to look at the rental policy. Of course, the energy costs for people are significant. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kops points out that there are people who have difficulty making ends meet. Yes, we are very aware of that. That is why we are looking very closely at how all these costs are going to work out. As Mr Kops also knows, minimal policy is municipal policy. We will point out to local authorities that the energy bill is also part of the costs that people have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u5	This is, of course, not an answer at all and it is certainly not reassuring, especially for all those households that are unable to deliver it on a monthly basis. The Secretary of State says she thinks affordability is important. Well, it doesn't want to succeed in that respect, because more and more households can't afford it. I would like to say to the Secretary of State: go talk to all these households, because they see their monthly amount of energy payments already rise by €30, €40, €50. Energy is a basic need, but in this way becomes a very expensive luxury product. That is already the case. The climate agreement is not even final, because it does not want to be so smooth with the negotiations. Yeah, you think it's crazy? In the meantime, there's also trouble in the coalition. Good! As far as this terrible climate agreement is concerned, let us hope that there will be a delay. But in the meantime, under the term "climate" the energy costs go up hugely. With the climate madness, an opportunity has simply been created to squeeze out the citizens. Squeeze it like lemons. Well, Mr Secretary of State, I've already done that, but that certainly isn't a compliment. Please come up with a solution for all those households who no longer want it and can no longer pay it. It's your policy. You're responsible for this. If that terrible climate agreement is to come, it will be much and much worse. Then the common man and woman can pay even more. Then they can cough up the billions of grants for all Tesla's of the canal belt elite of GroenLinks and D66. Meanwhile, ordinary households are on the brink of the financial abyss. And this cabinet is pushing them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u6	I am speaking, of course, to the people Mr Kops points out. They're just friends and family of mine. That is what the conversation is about on Saturdays and Sundays, of course. What did you think? That goes for everyone in the cabinet. The affordability of the energy transition is of great importance to us, because it has also given the support of that transition. The PBL is coming up with an analysis of how households have been able to pay their bills in recent times. Then we are going to look very closely at what the different costs are for these people and what measures should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I shall go first to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike Mr Kops, the Labour Party does take the climate threat seriously. We believe that we should not play poker with the future of our children and our grandchildren. The PvdA is concerned about the distribution of the account. Large companies pay much less in energy taxes per cub than citizens. This difference sometimes rises to 15 times the amount that companies pay. Citizens pay disproportionately...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u9	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u10	Is the Secretary of State prepared to equalise these unequal amounts for businesses and citizens? And is it prepared to agree that storage of renewable energy is not used for subsidies for CO storage of large companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u11	First of all, of course, I am also Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. As a result, I am dealing with small and medium-sized enterprises. We must be very careful that this foundation of our economy and those who generated the most jobs in 2017 can also pay for the energy transition. As you know, the government is going to explore the future financing of the expanded SDE+ requested by Mr Moorlag. It also looks at the distribution between citizens and businesses. I can't anticipate that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr. Snels... You may ask a second question, but then you will know that that is your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u13	I can't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u14	No, you disagree. That's different. Then I'll go to Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks has already drawn attention to this rising energy bill in the General Political Reviews, in the General Financial Reviews and in the treatment of the Tax Plan. We now know that the purchasing power plates of the CPB presented at Prinsjesdag must be corrected for household energy bills. We now know that energy taxes for households are increasing by 33%. And we now know that in practice the increase in the energy bill is going to be even higher. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss in the Cabinet, for example in the preparation of the Spring Paper, to compensate households for this rising energy bill and, for example, to pay the bill to companies, precisely in the interest of climate policy support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u16	I know that this was also discussed extensively during the budget debates and during the debate on the ODE. At that time, it was promised that we would look at how this division between businesses and citizens is going to work. I have just said that to Mr Moorlag. And the PBL will soon come up with a report which looks at what these energy costs mean for average households. As a result, we are going to look again at what is useful and sensible in this regard. For I cannot stress enough that support under the energy transition, even for low-income people, is simply important. This means that it must also remain affordable for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u17	Everyone will feel the climate measures in their pockets, because doing nothing is ultimately much more expensive. But my colleagues have also just indicated that it is disproportionately divided between households and businesses at the moment, whereas they consume much more energy and emit much more CO. And the burden on households is therefore relatively much higher. My question is, in fact, whether the Secretary of State does not agree that this is extremely unfairly distributed at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u18	I have just answered this question twice, Mr President. At the moment we are examining how this division is and how it could be shaped differently. I always say that behind a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises are people who work hard and who have to make ends meet. So we also need to keep an eye on the fact that it remains affordable for business. In the end, the employers of all those people you are speaking for are back in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mrs Beckerman, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u20	Well, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u21	Oh, the SP. Mrs Beckerman, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u22	And the week has just begun, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This climate policy is failing. The Netherlands is unable to reduce emissions, and we are increasing inequality. Where the largest polluters do not yet pay €20 per tonne of CO emitted, households pay €150. And the minister can say that it's all not true, and can point out that municipalities are about minimum policies, but the fact is that people can't pay their energy bills anymore. And the fact is that next year's cabinet will be left with money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u24	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u25	Next week, we'll discuss the Navy's note and we can do something about it. Do we get new purchasing power cards before the Navy note is processed so that we can see what this really means for households?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u26	It is not intended to send new purchasing power cards to the Chamber before next week. I would just like to emphasise once again here that the figures that are under the newspaper article that give rise to this question during this Question Time are based on a much higher average increase than there actually was in 2017. And the article also assumes a much higher price for that same energy. So let's not scare people either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mrs Beckerman of the SP may ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u28	Yes, because this really calls for a second question. The Secretary of State says that De Telegraaf's calculations are wrong. It is based on a 30% higher consumption. But a lot of people are in these poorly isolated, drafty homes and can't do much about it, when they can't afford their energy bills anymore. If you really think that these figures are wrong and we have a debate here next week on the Navy Note, where there is money left and we can do something about it if people really get into trouble, why can't the Secretary of State deliver those purchasing power cards before next week? That's what I'm asking again. Maybe she's right. Maybe she's okay. Maybe she's okay. And maybe we're right, and then we can help these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u29	We are currently discussing policy at these climate tables. That's what you have to have at some point in order to be able to calculate properly. That's one. I have just said that the amount mentioned in the article for an average household is not correct, at least according to the prices we charge. The National Energy Exploratory 2017 contained much lower average consumption data. The energy price was also much lower in 2018 than the article assumes. That is also why the amount De Telegraaf comes up with is €360 and we charge €108. And it is precisely the group that Mrs Beckerman mentions that is on the visor of this cabinet, namely the low-income people in poorly-insulated rental homes. That's why corporations got hundreds of millions added. Part of that money is supposed to be used to isolate these people's homes. So in the policy, again, from the point of view of support under the energy transition, there are various measures to monitor that group as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u30	I hear the Secretary of State raise some doubts about the content of the article in De Telegraaf. Of course, many more articles have been published. I'm actually wondering one thing. How is this Secretary of State really going to take away the concerns and fears of people at home, especially those with a narrow wallet? Because the Secretary of State needs a lot of words for it and I understand what she's explaining, but the people who are watching at home are worried. They wonder: how are we all going to pay for this? We want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you very much for this question by Mr Geleijne. People are worried. I am very familiar with that. I'm speaking to these people, too. It is therefore important that we mention the correct figures. The calculation used by De Telegraaf assumes different figures than what we count on: the 2017 National Energy Exploration and the actual electricity price in 2018. People's concerns are real. At the same time, I would not underestimate the people at home, because they can also count well. If they read back or listen to what I have said now, they will find that it is not yet clear what the amount will eventually be. All I'm saying here on behalf of the cabinet is that we've got eyes on these people. Because it makes a difference whether you have a low income in a rental house or if you have it much better and can afford it yourself. Both groups are important, especially those on low incomes. And I have mentioned several measures in this Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u32	A supplementary question from Mr Geleijnen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u33	I hear the Secretary of State clearly saying that she has an eye and an ear for this group. Can we then come back to her and the cabinet if it turns out to be different in January or February?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u34	In this Chamber, you always return to the cabinet. Then, of course, we are here again to answer all your questions. It's not just eye and ear. Let me stress that again. Money for corporations to do things. An investigation by the PBL to see what's actually going on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u35	Yes, but there was a specific question about January and February.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u36	That's what I started, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u37	You do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u38	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u39	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u40	At some point there will be a presentation of the agreement. That includes the calculation, because that is how we do it in this country. Then, as usual, we have another debate with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you.
