ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	The first speaker is Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I'd better admit it. Of all the reclassification proposals before us, I find this proposal on the Hoekse Waard the most difficult. Frankly, we're not quite out of it either. The answer to the questions I am going to ask the Minister really matters. Always natural, but very special in this round. When you look at what happened and how the proportions are, you see a very clear difference of opinion. Two municipalities are very clear for reclassification: Oud-Beijerland and Strijen. Three municipalities are against the reclassification, one of which is close, but well, still against reclassification. They opt for enhanced cooperation. Then we are talking about Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen and Korendijk. When you read the government's documents, you see plenty of arguments that argue for reclassification. For example, doing nothing is not an option. Now that is not usually the strongest argument, I think. In the documents of the cabinet, we also find arguments such as 'a stronger position in the region', 'equivalent partner for the region', 'energy from the municipalities is now largely internally oriented', 'the region leaves opportunities to Europe and the national and provincial level' and 'cooperation is not getting off the ground'. All these are essential points of interest, which call for a reclassification of these municipalities. But if you take note of the pieces of the opponents of the reclassification, you will encounter: there is no basis for reclassification. That's where they put their finger on a weak spot in the proposal. You can also read: there is already very good cooperation in the region and the common arrangements are working well. There are no financial problems and there is no shortage of administrative power. From the cooperation body Hoekse Waard there is always only one alderman on behalf of the five municipalities at the province to defend the interests of the Hoekse Waard, to show that the cooperation is indeed there. Another important concern: the local identity of the cores must be preserved. Again, these are arguments that show that there is indeed much to say against reclassification and for good cooperation. If we keep this planned reclassification under review, we see the following. In fact, we always read in the documents behind the words the province's vision: we have such a good plan, but there is no basis for it yet. I'm just going to summarize it in my words. Is there sufficient recognition by the province that administrative cooperation can also be serious and good to defend the common interests, that it is legitimate and that it takes time to achieve better cooperation? On the other hand, it seems that the opponents of this reclassification make the threat of reclassification so great that it is no longer clear why administrative cooperation, i.e. at some distance from the citizens, is good and municipal reclassification is a threat, because of the same distance from the municipal administration. Do they recognise sufficiently the benefits that a larger scale can also have? Last night, I mentioned a number of points on which we always test reclassification proposals: it has to come from the bottom; there must be sufficient support; there must be awareness that a larger scale is not always automatically better than a small one; there can be substantial problems to deviate from the voluntary nature, there can be insoluble problems or inadequate job performance by the local authorities, i.e. too little administrative power; there must not be a straitjacket to solve regional tasks. That's kind of the review framework. In the light of this, we would like to ask the Minister a number of questions. On the basis of the answers, we will eventually reach a judgment on this reclassification. There's seven of them. First of all, to what extent does the present proposal make sense to force municipalities that function properly against their will to reorganise? Why should we overrule local democracy? A second question. Cooperation between the municipalities in the Hoeksche Waard has already been established in many areas. What is this cooperation really and concretely failing in? A third question. Can the Minister explain in detail what she sees as arguments for saying that administrative cooperation does not have a sustainable future? We sometimes see that cooperation does indeed set in motion an organic process which over time creates a need for aggregation. That's a process that takes a little more time, but so what? Sorry. Why wouldn't you accept that? The fourth question. You can find certain choices of municipalities unwise, but aren't municipalities themselves primarily about their municipal household and about the matters they consider important? The fifth question. Is it okay to force another municipality against its will to take advantage of opportunities? That's how it's named in the papers. Municipalities seem to make their own choice to stay small-scale and closer to the citizen. The sixth question. How do we prevent provinces from coming up with a sort of blueprint of what is a good municipal administration and a good administrative scale, despite the fact that the minister does not want it? Finally, the last question. For a good assessment of the different options it would have been good if the province had also seriously examined strengthening administrative cooperation. Does the Minister agree with the SGP that provinces should also seriously examine other options that are not supported in advance by each municipality in this case, and that these options should be placed on an equal footing with the others?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	Before you continue, Mrs Den Boer also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	Great. I am almost ready for my conclusion and I was afraid that there would be no interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	To make it a little exciting. I've been behind the interrupting microphone for some time, but I thought, well, sitting down is the new smoke, so I'm gonna stand behind the microphone for a while. You are talking about support, and I was wondering what kind of support you mean. Do you mean social support or regional support or administrative support? Would you mind going into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	Let me answer that very simply and clearly. What determines whether or not there is support in a municipality is the result of the vote in the city council. Of course, it is up to the municipal councils to organise themselves how they involve and inform the residents. But in the end, as a national government, we have to deal with the choice made by the local government. And that determines whether or not there is support. In addition, of course, you have all kinds of interest groups and all kinds of people with strong opinions. They remain active, perfectly legitimate. I would also like to receive them and talk to them, but for me it is decisive what image the local council, the city council, shows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you very much for this statement. So you are actually talking about democratic support within the Councils. I wonder: for what? Are we talking about the reclassification as it is now, or about other proposals such as setting up a Corner Council, some kind of regional council, or some kind of administrative merger between the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	I do not think that the latter is the issue. There are two options. A number of municipalities have declared themselves in favour of a scaling-up in the sense that the Hoeksche Waard is merged into one municipality, and three municipal councils have spoken out against this scaling-up in the form of a merger. They are prepared to cooperate more closely, and they also see the need for it. I think those are the two flavors that are in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you for this clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	You're welcome. Mr President, I shall conclude. We see five municipalities each making their own legitimate choices for or against reclassification. In the light of the framework of the SGP that I have just outlined, this reclassification raises these questions as far as we are concerned. The SGP has not yet adopted a definitive position on this reclassification. You may not be used to the fact that the SGP does not have a strong opinion, but that is the case in this case. We will also arrive at a final position on the basis of the Minister's replies. That seems to me to be a good challenge for the Minister. Mr President, well within time. I'll leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	Nice. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. What started last night in Groningen as a tour of the Netherlands ends today in the Hoeksche Waard, where the minister wants to merge seventeen villages into a municipality with almost 86,000 inhabitants. That's a little consistent with the secret plan that's in the drawers at the Ministry. They are beautiful municipalities: Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen, Korendijk, Oud-Beijerland and Strijen. The question is also here: why? Who wants this? The people have spoken out or have been able to speak out, at least in a number of municipalities. There have been citizen polls in Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen and Korendijk. That's where two-thirds of the people said no. Then the Minister says: all these residents do not matter, it is the council members that matter to me. I disagree, but let's try to look from the Minister's perspective. In Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen and Korendijk the city council also said no. Of the five municipalities, two thirds said no. And, Mr President, it may take some getting used to for this minister and for D66, but if two thirds say no, that means no. Then there is no support. What about this beautiful region? Since 1984, these five municipalities have been trying to cooperate more with each other, in collaborations. Much went wrong there, and this has also been an evaluation of the minister's predecessor, by Mrs Spies, among others. He says that there is little trust between the municipalities at the moment. There is little mutual trust for cooperation. And then what's the advice? Then you're gonna merge. That is the same thing as people who are constantly in disarray, who have no confidence in each other and who have constantly had an argument with each other from the Minister: I know a solution, then you should get married. Mr President, I predict that it will not be a happy marriage between unwilling lovers. Can the Minister reflect on that? I have also been reading a bit with raised eyebrows in the documents of the Ministry, which say why the municipalities should be dissolved: the five municipal councils are now mainly focused on the village centres. Oh, that's bad! Municipalities focused on their own residents! Yeah, that's a mockery, of course. All consultants and managers and advisors, and all the expensive people who are on the local board, are appalled, because you have to deal with very big projects that have nothing to do with the population. No, you have five municipalities here that just do their job. And because they're doing their job, they need to be lifted. I find that a mockery and a scandal. Can the Minister reflect on that? Why? And who's gonna make it? Then I read that the beautiful municipalities lie between urban areas, such as The Hague, Rotterdam, the Drechtsteden and BrabantStad, which apparently also exists nowadays. Metropolitan Region Rotterdam The Hague, the Drechtsteden and Barendrecht, Albrandswaard and Ridderkerk have already merged. Bernisse and Spijkenisse have merged into the new municipality of Nissewaard. To the southwest the new municipality Goeree-Overflakkee has recently emerged. Here comes a monkey from the sleeve. Why do these five beautiful congregations have to join each other? Because there have been reclassifications elsewhere. And why have there been reclassifications elsewhere? Well, because there have been reclassifications elsewhere. And so on and so on. It is a bit of the secret plan that has been put deep in a drawer at the ministry, namely that all municipalities must have 100,000 inhabitants, left or right. Municipalities are torpedoed with consultants, managers and advisors until they have to take it, even if the population and the city council say no. Well, if that happens and it is so inappropriate to deal with municipalities and citizens, then there is only one thing we, as a representative of the people, have to do: say no. I will, and I hope I'm not one of the few here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Bosch on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. In front of us lies, last in the series, the merging of the municipalities of Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen, Korendijk, Oud-Beijerland and Strijen. As has already been said, two of the five municipalities have agreed to reclassification in this reclassification, the other three are mainly seeking greater cooperation. This bill again means that we as a Chamber have to pawn and weigh. We would have preferred, of course, that all the municipalities had agreed, as we have seen in the last few hours. Now our role comes up to make a choice. The municipal councils and institutions in the area have stated that there is an urgent need for administrative improvements and that doing nothing is not an option. Since the municipalities did not agree on the desired administrative solution, the province of Zuid-Holland has taken this decision for a reclassification opinion. In the opinion of the VVD Group, it is not possible to form a municipality that could continue to exist independently without all five municipalities participating in this process of unification. Doing nothing is not an option anymore. The VVD group really believes that the municipality of Hoeksche Waard with some 90,000 inhabitants in that place of the Netherlands is of added value for its inhabitants and the area. We believe that this clarification should now be given and the VVD Group is giving it to the Minister. That is why the VVD Group supports the proposal. We call on everyone, both fore and against, to join forces after the merger, to seek the connection with each other and to go for it. Because then you can all do something for all your people and businesses. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	What an amazing position for a party that used to call itself liberal. Yesterday, Mr Van den Bosch argued that this is a question of support, and that is defined as 'what the municipal councils think'. Three of the five municipal councils of this future merger municipality are opposed. Mr Van den Bosch calls for us to listen to these municipal councils. Well, those city councils have spoken in this file. And they say no. At least three out of five say no. Why does Mr Van den Bosch not listen to his own arguments and why does he not listen to the municipal councils?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	As I explained in my story, this is a dilemma. Two out of three are in favour, are even in favour; you also have to deal with such minorities. Eventually, you're gonna have to weigh it up. You are probably making a different weighting from my group. Despite the fact that there is not 100% support here, we say that we must nevertheless make the choice made by the province. We do this with pain in our hearts, albeit not in substance, because we sincerely believe that this can become a good church. But it does reflect the dilemma we face. That should not happen too often as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	It shouldn't happen too often? It's just happening now! I will not make the argument about the citizens, because by definition the VVD is not interested in this, but I will come up with the argument of the municipal councils. Once again, last night and also in the debates we had before, Mr Van den Bosch argued here: let us listen to the municipal councils; municipal councils, municipal councils, municipal councils. This is where most city councils say no. Nevertheless, Mr Van den Bosch wants to push them into this fusion trap. Could Mr Van den Bosch perhaps try to put forward arguments as to why he does not even want to listen to the municipal councils anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	I repeat that we are listening to some of the municipal councils, because there are also municipal councils that are in favour. It's always wiggling and weighing. In this case we find the arguments of municipal councils that are very valid for it. The big difference with other dilemmas, like last night's, is that you really can't say here: you know what, we're going to rearrange with two municipalities and not with the other three. That doesn't work in this area. We're convinced you need to move on now. I'm really convinced that the Hoeksche Waard is also a very nice, strong municipality in the area. That is the balance that we are making. There's a lot of tension on that. I'm not gonna deny it. It's done, but, yeah, in this room, we were hired to go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Madam President. And yet another province that thinks it all knows better and decides over the heads of the population. The first three pages of the explanatory memorandum can be summarized in one sentence: three of the five municipalities in the Hoeksche Waard are opposed to reclassification and thus the Republics have decided to reclassification. Three of the five municipalities involved in this merger are against. In the three municipalities that do not want to live 53.000 inhabitants. In the two municipalities that want to live 33,000 inhabitants. The three municipalities that do not wish to be part of Cromstrijen, Korendijk and Binnenmaas were created by a previous reclassification in 1984. Cromstrijen was formed by merging Klaaswaal and Numansdorp. Korendijk was formed by merging Goudswaard, Nieuw-Beijerland, Zuid-Beijerland and Piershil. Binnenmaas was formed by merging Puttershoek, Maasdam, Mijnsherenland, Westmaas and Heinenoord. The municipalities that are opposed therefore speak out of experience. Should the new municipality of Hoeksche Waard, if any, merge again in 20 years' time and should it be further away from the citizen? We read in the explanatory memorandum that the municipalities that are opposed to the reclassification have held a referendum. An overwhelming no came out of that. 70% voted against reclassification. In a note in the explanatory statement we read that one group from the council of the municipality of Strijen, one of the two municipalities that is in favour of reclassification, also held a referendum. It was filled out by only 5% of the residents of Strijen, but 95% of them voted against reclassification. That's a signal, I think. Why didn't the municipality of Strijen pick up that signal and organise a better public consultation with which more people would participate? Is it true that the municipalities that now say yes to the reclassification have not held a referendum? I am repeating myself: it would have been better to ask the inhabitants what they thought about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	I just want to get back to the role of county. I see a province that has taken responsibility for an administrative impasse that has arisen. Does Mr Krol agree with me that the municipal councils of the five municipalities in the Hoeksche Waard have unanimously agreed to the role of the province in breaking this administrative deadlock?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u23	Facts are facts, but other facts are also that when it comes to municipal reclassification, you should listen to the citizens. They are the owners of the municipality. You very much want municipal reclassifications to be the municipalities and provinces that make the decisions, but 50PLUS is in favour of that being the population. That is why we are calling for referendums. You may think differently, but give me the right to think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u24	Municipalities are there for their inhabitants, of course. That's the most important thing. If municipalities do not come together, but are in favour of cooperation in order to maintain all these facilities in the Hoeksche Waard, do you not see a role for the province?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u25	No, I can see above all that it is for the citizens themselves. Get the civilians involved. Make sure that there are referendums and that there is sufficient support. In some cases, after proper information, residents will certainly say that they want to go together, and not in others. I want to listen to the citizen, you listen to the drivers. That's where we differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u26	Proceed, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u27	The province and cabinet screens with the statement from 2013: in the Hoeksche Waard there is nothing to do. But that statement has now become obsolete. Since 2014, the municipal partnership has been working well, contrary to what the cabinet has led us to believe. According to the cabinet, Mr Van Raak has already pointed out that the individual municipalities are too focused on their own villages. I only see advantages if a municipality looks closely at its own citizens and its villages. We certainly shouldn't want the opposite. Imagine if the new municipalities weren't focused on the villages. That's not what a person wants, is it? The rest of the problems that need to be solved with the reclassifications concern vulnerable civil service organisations, tensions within the municipality and poor service provision. I'm sorry, but those arguments don't convince me. Vulnerabilities in the official organisation can be solved with cooperation. The same applies to better provision of services to institutions. Why not just keep working together and focus on that improvement? This cabinet wants us to believe that we are dealing with an or-or choice: either going on alone or getting bigger and bigger. The reality for all municipalities in the Netherlands, big or small, is of course en-and-and: and take good care of their own municipality and take care of things efficiently and work together with other municipalities for things that are better done together. Small municipalities do that, large municipalities do that, municipalities do it before they are merged and municipalities do it after they are merged. Collaborations will always be there. Finally, I would like to quote the general director of the VNG. At the end of last year, Jantien Kriens made a very appropriate argument about multi-scaleness. Some things are better picked up on a small scale and others are done in a larger context. She said: "As a community, small communities get things done much faster: all lines are very easy to lay. Because everything is smaller, small municipalities can work more flexible and faster. For example, you know very quickly how many older people there are and that there are ten older people over the age of 80 that you need to arrange to make sure they can stay at home. Municipalities should always be able to choose which scale best suits the subject." That's exactly what this is about. Municipalities should be able to choose which scale best suits the subject. Let us therefore cherish that small-scale level, because it has added value and because the people feel comfortable with it. Mr. Chairman. Three of the five municipalities in the Hoeksche Waard choose the current municipality size. The 50PLUS Group agrees with that wish. That is why we will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mr President. In the previous debate, I asked the question: when will it stop? When are these municipal reclassifications gonna stop? The Minister replied to me in my own words: never. We will have a policy framework, but, with things like identity and participation. She also stated last night that there are arguments for all those reclassifications that are in practice open-ended schemes. For example, if you say: we are looking in the future at the financial position of the municipality, the solvency, then that is a reason to abolish that municipality. Whether an argument is: the municipality has received a lot of tasks, Wmo et cetera, and therefore the municipalities must also merge. In other words, in the future we will discuss a lot of municipal reclassifications here, just as long as the Netherlands is a large municipality. I am now going to say it for the third time in a minute or fifteen: there is, in the end, no justification whatsoever for these municipal reclassifications, no justification whatsoever. I refer again to the 2013 study of COELO Groningen. In the end, public expenditure does not fall in these new merged municipalities. The municipal facilities really aren't getting any better. The attractiveness of these municipalities does not increase. Well, Professor Voermans says, there is at least the chance that confidence in politics will fall. That is why my group keeps saying: preserve those municipalities, be proud of them, be careful with them. They are often centuries old and there is no reason to abolish the municipalities. Mr. Chairman. The expression "from the bottom" is widely used by this minister, but also by a number of parliamentary groups. On the bottom, I think: these are the citizens, but no, from below means the administrators, the municipal councils. Again, I have a lot of respect for the members of municipal councils, but from the bottom I think of the residents. In the previous dossiers that we were allowed to deal with, it is said that there is support from the bottom for all these municipal reclassifications. This seems to be the crucial argument for this minister as well. Let us look today at how consistent she is in her argument. In this file, which should therefore be Hoeksche Waard, the majority of municipal councils say that they do not want this. This is a typical case in which the driver is not the citizen but the driver. There's an administrative impasse. I'd say that's your problem, solve it. Doing nothing isn't an option? Well, often doing nothing is an option. In many cases, intervention leads to new problems. The province rams it through in a rather arrogant way. She knows better than the residents and she also knows better than the municipalities and the municipal councils. These are again the well-known administrative arguments; it is about the position in the region. What do the citizens suffer from the fact that their municipality has not yet been merged? There is no need in the end. "Well," says the minister, or actually the former minister, because Mr. Plasterk's signature is still underneath, "this is the best and the most sustainable solution." Why? Financially, these municipalities are doing pretty well. Why? Why? Why? The largest town, Binnenmaas, doesn't want it. 80% of citizens are consulted. 70% is against. A study by Erasmus University states that only one third is in favour of the reclassification. If you add the inhabitants together, it turns out that 53.000 inhabitants of the municipalities do not want it and that only 32,000 people would like it. Three of the five municipalities have already been redeployed. That is very spicy, because these reclassifications are always done because of administrative power and all those cries. So, what's next? They are being re-assessed, but the administrative power doesn't seem to increase at all and then they need to be re-assessed. Isn't that just admitting that these reclassifications, at least in this file, aren't working? We therefore note that this is simply being pushed through despite the fact that three out of the five municipal councils, according to the Minister, make the difference; that is not what the basis for support is. When is the Lower House going to stand on the brakes? Well, I can answer that question myself: never. Mr Van den Bosch of the VVD says he has been hired to move forward; the Lower House has been hired to move forward. No, VVD, you weren't hired here to move on. No, MPs, we're not hired to move forward, we've been hired to control this minister, to control government policy and say "yes" or "no." That's why we're getting compensation. We're not the government. We control this government. We weren't hired to move on. We have been hired to review the Minister's and this cabinet's plans critically and to say "yes" or "no." For this we need to assess all kinds of issues, for example the Minister's own argument, in this case 'the municipal councils are the basis for support'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the Hoeksche Waard there has been talk of the administrative establishment of the island for some 50 years. The documents accompanying this bill and the discussions with the people in the Hoeksche Waard show that there is a unanimous view that doing nothing is not an option, that the future of the Hoeksche Waard is one and indivisible and that more should be decided at regional level. After many years of discussion, however, one could not agree on a choice for one of the two directions of solution: the cooperation model or the reclassification. In order to break the deadlock, the province of South Holland started an ARHI procedure, because a choice had to be made. The province was supported by all political groups in the States. The result of this procedure is that the province has decided to merge the five municipalities. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has been in the Hoeksche Waard and we have spoken to both supporters and opponents there. The talks and the documents before us show that there is a great need for strong governance in the Hoeksche Waard. The five municipalities themselves are too small to carry out all the tasks properly. One municipality in which the villages can each retain their own character and with which the Hoeksche Waard as a whole occupies a stronger position in the region, my group seems to be a good option. Mr. Chairman. My group still has a specific question for the Minister. The new municipality will soon cover a large area. How is it ensured that public services in the new municipality remain accessible to all residents? Mr. Chairman. Considering all the arguments, GroenLinks can agree to the present reclassification of the Hoeksche Waard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. With an opposition like that, you don't need a coalition anymore. I find it quite remarkable that GroenLinks supports all these reclassification plans. It used to be small-scale with GroenLinks and the left-wing fellow man, and you heard "small is beautiful," but that's all in the past. Well, that's okay. But let's look at the residents who make themselves heard in a citizen consultation. A lot of people are rising; 70% are voting against these reclassifications. Then why does GroenLinks choose to be enthusiastic about this, against the majority of people who are consulted in, and also against the majority of municipal councils? Why does GroenLinks know so much better than the residents and the majority of city council members?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u33	GroenLinks listens very carefully to what is happening in those municipalities. This is a decision that has been expressed in those municipal councils. Consulting the citizens, hearing what they think about it, is a task of these municipalities. They have done so in various ways, which they have found appropriate in those municipalities. GroenLinks appreciates that. It is understandable that there are supporters and opponents, but this process has started from the bottom up, even though it has lasted 50 years. We have come a long way. Now it's up to us to make a decision about everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u34	It is also a watershed that GroenLinks now interprets the cry "from the bottom" as "municipality council members." "From the bottom" at GroenLinks means not "citizens" anymore, but "municipality council members." I find that very striking; we need to mark this moment. But now just, very simple, back to the basic question. The people in what threatens to become the Hoeksche Waard do not want that municipal reclassification, at least in the majority: 80% of the people who vote say that they do not want that. Is that an argument for GroenLinks? Or does GroenLinks say that we don't care at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u35	People's representatives have been elected. You were also chosen here. Municipal council members have also been elected. They represent the people in these municipalities. They talk to the people about what decisions need to be taken. Before that, they organize conversations and residents' nights. Municipalities consult people in all shapes. That respects my party. That is why it is important that the municipalities together have taken the decision that lies ahead. We can only agree to that. The work is well done. I understand that you disagree, but that is another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u36	Finally, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u37	It's not about my opinion. It concerns the finding that three of the five municipal councils do not want this. Now, of course, we have seen in the past that GroenLinks has abolished the binding referendum, because GroenLinks has a bit of a brother killed by what the people think; the people must remain silent. That is why Mrs Özütok has so passionately opposed the binding referendum. Unfortunately, she has won and we have lost the binding referendum. Well, and then there's a citizen consultation in what the Hoeksche Waard is going to be, and people are speaking out. And then GroenLinks declares that completely irrelevant because, according to GroenLinks, it listens to the representatives of the people. I think that indicates what the culture of GroenLinks is, namely: these citizens do not matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u38	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to that last point. Ms Özütok indicated that she would respect the choice of municipal councils. But I can't get it all together. In three of the municipalities, the city council ruled against reclassification. If we look at the population numbers, it is true that Mr Bosma found that the correct figure is about two thirds of the total population of the Hoeksche Waard that they represent. But how does GroenLinks respect that? Then how does GroenLinks do justice to the choice of those three municipal councils against the two who voted in favour? I'd like some clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr. Bishop, you also know that these municipalities agree to cooperate with each other in the Regional Council. It's a question of how you're gonna work together. GroenLinks' preference is to vote in favour of this reclassification and the legislative proposal. Because you also create an administrative layer at a regional council. So if the road turns out to be the same on the left or right, then my group prefers a reclassification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u41	I'm trying to understand. So Mrs Özütok actually says that municipalities do not have the right to opt for independence, to remain their own entity and to work together. If that's what they choose, they'll have to merge. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u42	No, that's not what I mean. You're misinterpreting my words. What I mean is, what I started out with is that people did not figure out how cooperation should take shape. That is why the province took matters into its own hands and came to this choice in consultation with the municipalities. And the groups in the province have all voted in favour. That is decisive for me, and for my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u43	Finally, Mr. Bishop, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u44	I'll be very brief. So that means you're giving the province the right to overrule local democracy? Actually, that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u45	The province has the right to do this legitimate, it's her job to make a decision. She did. That's valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u46	I don't understand the position of GroenLinks anymore. I would like to invite Mrs Özütok to ride her baking bike through the Hoeksche Waard...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u47	I don't have a baking bike.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u48	...and go and watch and listen. What the people think is not important is GroenLinks, but what the municipal councils think is important is what Mrs Özütok thinks. Now a majority of the five municipal councils have said no. And that is an argument for Mrs Özütok to say yes. Can she explain that? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u49	I understand that sometimes you don't quite understand things here. But let me explain it again. The municipal councils did not agree on how cooperation should take place in the region, whether through a regional council, intensive cooperation, or through a reclassification. It took about 50 years. That's a long time. This also means that there is no clarity for the citizens of that region. That is why I believe that the province She said: let us facilitate that process. That was also supported by your group in the province. So I don't really understand why you're making such a point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u50	I see something incredible here anyway. People say no. The city councils say no. But GroenLinks concludes that there is broad support for a reclassification. I don't get it. I don't think the viewers get it either. There's no explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u51	I think I've already explained. I'll keep repeating it. In my view, you do not want to accept that there was no exit in the region and that the province finally started this process. I think that is a very correct and good process. The municipalities have now also said that something really needs to be done; cooperation in the region must be regulated on the left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u52	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u53	So acceptance in the municipality does not mean support from the population, nor does it mean support from the municipality, but means support from the province, the government. Then I find the idea of local support at GroenLinks quite remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u54	You're very bathing about the people's representatives who...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u55	Those who said no!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u56	...in all that gremia. I don't want to add anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u57	About working together: you don't have to marry in the community of goods to be happy as partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u58	I don't know about marriage, but I've had some experience in governing. I think this is the best way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u59	So the population in the municipal councils doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u60	People think differently about it. It is good that this process has come together after 50 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I didn't know you didn't know how to get married. That's nice information during such a debate. Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u62	My experience is that in marriage, you don't only manage with your mind, so to speak. If I have remembered one thing from the many conversations I have had with people from the Hoeksche Waard over the last few months, it is that the Hoeksche Waar is one and simple. I've heard that from opponents and opponents: the Hoeksche Waard is one and simple. In itself, for an outsider in any case, that is not surprising when you live on an island with each other. And yet the reclassification that has been submitted is not undisputed. The Hoeksche Waard is divided over its administrative future. Municipal councils are divided and the municipalities are divided. One municipality held a poll among the inhabitants, the other municipality did not. One will shrug his shoulders on that, where we as CDA do not. The inhabitants protest against the planned decision and that is a form of involvement in their own municipality. A reclassification debate is therefore not a technical matter. That's what emotions come into play, and they're very understandable. It is not surprising that the debate is now taking place in full force, because in the Hoeksche Waard this discussion has been going on for a very long time. In the past, it almost came to a reclassification and then it didn't. Mr. Chairman. The Hoeksche Waard stands for a firm challenge in its entirety. As one of the few areas in the Netherlands, it is an anticipatory region. That is something like a neighbourhood of opportunity, so I call it just as euphemistic, but in a rural region. It has been established that the shrinkage in the future will be very noticeable in the Hoeksche Waard, but even then it remains an attractive place to live and undertake. During the visit of the Permanent Chambers Committee, we saw that. The Hoeksche Waard is developing under the smoke of Rotterdam, which has a lot of influence on the region. This also applies to its attraction. However, the challenges will be significant, for example for education and housing. That's what we heard there, too. The CDA Group notes that civil society, entrepreneurs, the agricultural sector, education, housing corporations and welfare institutions at the level of the Hoeksche Waard have joined forces a long time ago. They ask themselves that they also did so in the hearing when the municipalities follow. But that's an administratively complicated matter. Despite the fact that the Hoeksche Waard belongs together, one also attaches to one's own municipality. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, each reclassification raises the question of whether it has been made from below. If you can question that, and in the Hoeksche Waard, there is also resistance to a reclassification. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, there are those in the case of the Hoeksche Waard. For example, all municipalities indicate that in all cases there should be much stronger and firmer cooperation in order to meet all the challenges. For example, it looks at a Regional Council, to which powers must be delegated. My group has seriously asked itself whether this really will take you one step further without creating a stronger organisation behind it, because things must not only be conceived, but also implemented. We have also considered whether it is desirable for local democracy to remove powers from municipal councils. You may create first-rate and second-rate council members, or you may put aldermen at a head start that can no longer be overtaken by council members. For more than fifteen years there has been discussion about the administrative future of the Hoeksche Waard. I think it is high time that clarity emerged, especially after this long journey. Everyone involved has a right to that. In the opinion of the CDA-group Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen, Korendijk, Oud-Beijerland and Strijen are no problem, but they themselves indicate that things can't be done as they are now. The social challenge of shrinking and the economy in the region are demanding too much. For that, the hands will really have to be put together. Civil society calls very clearly for unity and decisiveness. Politics has been stalemate for years, in constantly different and sometimes very nuanced relationships. Now it is up to the Chamber to form an opinion on the law which the Minister submits to us. If I have remembered one thing from the many conversations I have had in the Hoeksche Waard in recent months, then this is it: the Hoeksche Waard is one and simple. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, there is a good future for the Hoeksche Waard if it will also be governed as one and undivided. That is why we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u63	Finally, Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna filibuster, but I'm gonna have a sip of water. With the planned reclassification of the Hoeksche Waard one does not go about one night ice. Already 50 years ago in the Hoeksche Waard there was for the first time discussed the administrative layout of the island. In the meantime, the lectures and municipal councils in the five municipalities unanimously agree that doing nothing is an irrefutable path. There is agreement that the Hoeksche Waard is facing a common future. There is a single identity and more decisions must be taken at regional level. The five municipalities in the Hoeksche Waard face major societal challenges. There is a strong trend of ageing on the island. Many young people leave the island to work elsewhere or study. The Hoeksche Waard also faces major challenges in the field of regional infrastructure and mobility. By the way, it is an island that has produced greats, such as Suze Groeneweg, our first female parliamentarians. I call this a very famous skater, which will also appeal to the Minister, Kees Verkerk from Puttershoek. By the way, my dad used to play football with him. And, of course, Cees Veerman, the former minister. As a beautiful island with a polder landscape, there are huge opportunities at regional, national and even European level: for high-quality agriculture with the emphasis on sustainability, for nature, water and the environment and for recreation, tourism and sport. All this at a stone's throw from the Rotterdam-Den Haag metropolis region. There are many challenges that need to be addressed in the region, but the municipalities together have not come out for years. More intensive cooperation is needed. Or is that reclassification still necessary? The municipal councils do agree that joint decision-making is too slow and too poachy at the moment. More cooperation at regional level is needed, including in the field of policy harmonisation and implementation. Finally, all municipalities see the Hoeksche Waard as one and indivisible. According to surveys, too much is being done from local interests and perspectives. It has also been shown that it is difficult to make choices that are better for the region as a whole. The five municipalities have jointly endorsed these conclusions. The municipalities were given many opportunities to find their own solution. They also agreed to a mandate for the province if the municipal councils themselves did not come out. I just said "unanimous." And is that the case? They did not agree on both solutions, both reorganising and working together. An open consultation was therefore launched by the Province in January 2016. The province has looked at two options: redefining and working together. Both options have been thoroughly examined. The cooperation model would include a new upper Hoeksche council, including the five municipal councils. A form of extended local government. The D66 group finds such a solution problematic, because the five councils on most dossiers are subject to the decisions of a Corner Council, an additional layer of administration that is not directly elected, but makes very large decisions. In addition, the establishment of a Regional Council involves costs, for which there is no separate coverage. There is also no support for the establishment of a Regional Council under two thirds of its members. Deputy States then decided to advise on a reclassification to one municipality of Hoeksche Waard. This would provide a sustainable solution and future-proof governance that could address the island's common challenges together, which could benefit its inhabitants. Contrary to the further shredding of the cooperation model, a new municipality of Hoeksche Waard could strengthen the vulnerable administrative apparatus. Now a lot of energy goes into consultation and coordination. Too often there is a lack of mutual benefit between the municipalities, which is why cooperation is not a good thing, which is so much needed. A strategic vision for the future is very important. It can focus on the position of the island in the region. The new municipality of Hoeksche Waard will also be able to strengthen itself internally and jointly. The Hoeksche Waard will again be a player of interest can and must become. There are many opportunities for strategic alliances in the wider region in the Rotterdam-Antwerp axis. A large municipality can then gain a stronger position at the negotiating table. Should a merger be decided, a powerful community of seventeen cores with about 86,000 or 85,000 inhabitants will emerge. The new city council can be strengthened with 37 council members and up to seven aldermen. Residents who are concerned about accessibility and service can be served with customised services. And if they want, their passports can be delivered to the house. D66 considers the support of the people of the Hoeksche Waard to be important. At an earlier stage, the residents were heard during various meetings and conversation evenings. During a hearing, the members of the House of Representatives heard the various views on the reclassification. We have also received many letters and emails. The previous survey of BMC shows that there is no majority for one of the two solutions. It clearly shows the impasse that has arisen. Furthermore, local politicians have clearly indicated that they are going to work with the concerns of the inhabitants. That's what's at the heart of it. It is also important that the facilities in the many cores that the Hoeksche Waard knows remain in order. I ask the Minister, is she prepared to ensure that the new municipality of Hoeksche Waard is actively engaged in an active core policy in which the proximity of the administration and relations with the district are actively secured? Civil society on the island is also very active. They want to escape the crippling situation on the island. They're looking forward to one Hoeksche Waard. They have united in the Pact of the Waard. They see the reclassification as a condition, so that the Hoeksche Waard remains attractive. Provisions must be maintained for the future. Dividement and polarisation are not the solution. Schools benefit from greater speed and clarity in decision-making. Libraries will lose less energy on alignment and can spend more time on content and quality. Companies now need to consult with five separate municipalities to ask if there is room for them. For example, I quote an entrepreneur: "We have to apply for a separate grant at each municipality in the Hoeksche Waard, explaining and paying separately. That's inefficient. This leads to additional costs on our part." Finally, Mr President. Research has shown that cooperation on the island is not working properly and that the influence of the council members is marginal. With that, the Hoeksche Waard doesn't take her chances. Not for the inhabitants, not for the entrepreneurs and not for the authorities. The administration seems to have been mainly self-employed and cannot make a fist against shrinkage, ageing, blockage. These issues and these problems call for strong and united governance. This year's deadlock must be broken. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in favour of a reclassification. The municipalities in the Hoeksche Waard themselves indicate that the administrative power is weak. Moreover, all municipalities put together that doing nothing is not an option. At the same time, it can be concluded that they do not seek to strengthen cooperation. This leaves only the choice of reclassification. Although the Hoeksche Value houses many local traditions, there is also a common identity. Corner chefs make up one big family. D66 and myself as inhabitants of the island look forward to a powerful and united government in the Hoeksche Waard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u65	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister can actually answer directly. Can you suspend for two minutes? Then let's move on. I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u66	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, I would almost say, if that was not English, which is not really allowed here: the Hoeksche Waard, the last of four debates we have yesterday and today, and yet another special reclassification. This was actually the subject of the first-term debate between Members of Parliament. Certain principles have been mentioned by many, for example: the Hoeksche Waard is one and indivisible. Doing nothing is not an option, was cited by several members. One agreed a little more than the other. More matters should be decided on the scale of the five municipalities. Those are all terms that keep coming back. Why do they keep coming back? Because all the councils of the municipalities involved agree that something needs to be done. They only disagree about what and how. Therefore, in this case, the exception confirming the rule that it should preferably be done from the bottom up is initiated and directed by the municipalities. In this case, the province has risen and taken its responsibility. She's a referee, neutral, and fair trial. In addition, it was clear that there were two directions of solution, if you use the starting point on which the councils agreed, namely that something must be done. Enhanced cooperation with perseverance or reclassification. There is no convincing support for either option. That was what the province also had to deal with in its directing role. It has been said by Mr Van der Molen and others: there has been a debate on this subject for decades. The emotions run out. I understand. I think, perhaps, that this is why you should say at some point: we need to make a decision, we need to clarify it. On the two models that have been developed, reinforced cooperation on the one hand and reclassification on the other, the province has finally considered that there is insufficient support for the enhanced cooperation. The present cooperation, because it is there, is not going smoothly. It doesn't seem to be going very well. That is not a good starting point for the province to continue with. Again, there is no consensus between the five municipalities on this model. It is also not quite clear how you could further implement that model. As a result, the other route according to the province is a better solution, a structural solution, a reclassification. The province wants to work together with the municipalities concerned to shape the follow-up, the proximity of the administration and the identity of the cores. They even made a document called "core democracy." Mrs Den Boer has just mentioned this as the most important starting point. Yeah, that's all part of it. We are talking about five municipalities of different sizes, between 9,000 and 29,000 inhabitants, but they are also 17 villages. These 17 villages, of course, all go on in the new municipalities as a village, as a core, as recognizable identity for the people who live there. Where does it differ? Well, because there won't be five lectures, five mayors and a multitude of aldermen, but one mayor, one city council and one mutual collaboration. That's where the improvement is. In other words, it is that exceptional situation with a very long history in 1960, there has already been a Minister of State who said that there should be a reclassification of which the province and the municipalities say there should be a solution. If we know everything well, and we know that there is no consensus on one route, then someone has to act as a neutral referee. That's what the county did. I would like it if later on when we talk about the Hoekse Waard the key word is no longer stalemate. That is the current situation, but 'together in one indivisible Hoekse Waard'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u68	But the fact that there is a discussion about something and that this discussion has been going on for 50 years or more is not an argument in itself to end all these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u69	I put forward the argument of the long-term discussion to indicate that there can also be a moment to say: let us choose a direction. The word stalemate is not a good word. It's no good to anyone if there's an impasse. I think we can also consider that there has been a sufficient period of discussion. There has really been a good search for the best way, also by the municipalities themselves, in the final phase under the direction of the province. Can you convince everyone and get everyone behind your proposal? No, probably not. But is it enough to say that this is now a decision that we can take to break the deadlock and to look to the future and do what is best for the inhabitants of the Hoekse Waard? Then I think, "Yeah."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u70	That was also because the only way that was offered was: bigger, by working together or joining together. Why I asked the Minister yesterday for a vision, and again today, is that there is, of course, another option, to look at the task package. If it is so clear that the population and also the leaders who want smaller municipalities, if they attach to their community and their identity, why not look at other possibilities, for example less investing tasks and investing the other tasks elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u71	I started by saying that the municipalities agree that something must be done and that there are actually only two routes to achieve this. This has just been underlined by other speakers. One route is the reclassification that is now in progress and the other is the enhanced cooperation. Mr Van Raak now comes up with another variant, which amounts to: do not do any of that. When they say 'one and indivisible' and when they say 'we have to make more joint decisions on the scale of the five municipalities', that of course indicates a direction. A choice must then be made as to how to materialize this. The direction of the province has ultimately led to the proposal that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u72	That's because those municipalities had no other option. They have been given that task package. They didn't get it from themselves, and they didn't get it from the county. They got it from the government and from the House of Representatives. That's the task package they had to do it with. So they show exactly where the problem lies: if we have to do this task, then we have to lift ourselves. An alternative is, of course, to see if municipalities can stay small and stay close to their own community, with a smaller task package. That's the vision I've been asking for. I hope that the Minister will want to offer that vision with those alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u73	Now I understand better what Mr Van Raak means. I said yesterday that this is in many municipalities. The decentralisations have been implemented. Investing tasks with the municipality, as close to the citizen as possible, has posed a number of municipalities to the question: can we do this ourselves or should we seek cooperation or merge it with neighbouring municipalities? That's right. I still think it is very wise that these tasks should be invested in the municipalities, because they do know much better what the needs and specific characteristics of their municipalities are. That's what I've seen in my own time as a local driver. They know where the priorities lie in their municipality and how care for the elderly can best be organised. They must deliver the whole palette of measures that the municipalities are about. Let them decide and let the municipal councils fulfil their supervisory function in that regard. I therefore support the fact that we are investing these tasks in the municipalities. I think it is a logical consequence for municipalities to ask themselves how they can best organise this. This is one of the exceptions that confirm the rule that it is usually made from the bottom up and can be determined in good harmony by municipalities themselves. Now two exceptions have been discussed here in two days. I would not like to draw the conclusion that Mr Van Raak draws from this: let us recentralise all policies and their implementation. I wouldn't be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u74	Now the Minister is making it a caricature and I do not think the discussion deserves it. The point is that municipalities have that possibility. Now they've been required to do all these tasks. And in a much larger number of cases than today, municipalities cannot carry out this themselves. That's why we have 877 partnerships. Many municipalities cannot do that and therefore need to become much larger. All I ask the Minister to do is to develop a vision to give these municipalities a choice. Then she shouldn't pretend I want to impose that centralistally. No, I want to offer municipalities a choice. They must first see what their community is and what tasks can be associated with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u75	I believe that the tasks that Mr Van Raak is talking about can best be carried out by the level of administration closest to that citizen. I have said many times today that there is no ideal scale at all as far as I am concerned. There are cities that are large where these tasks are very well organised and where citizens feel very committed and well served. There are small municipalities where they do. The question is, how can you organize it? Where do municipalities themselves think that they can best guarantee this quality of service? That's where I measure it, not the exact population. The points raised by Mr Van Raak are reflected in the development of the policy framework that I have promised the Chamber. Mr President, then there are a number of questions. Mr Bishop asked, building on what I said in my introduction, to what extent it makes sense in this particular case to enforce this merger under the direction of the province. I have actually already answered that question. Where the leaders and the municipal councils did agree that something had to happen, but did not agree on the way in which that reinforcement should take place, I think it is logical that the province and the local councils involved should direct this. I am convinced that they have sufficiently weighed all the municipalities and interests involved in the various municipalities. I have just heard that there must be an impasse, that there must be consultation on the desired final picture, but it is really just about very concrete things. Is there enough attention for those villages? They are already many more villages than there are municipalities. That must also be the case in the future. At the same time, these municipalities do not want to sell no to their inhabitants when it comes to their facilities and their quality. It is also about the collaborations that municipalities have with other partners. It could be about sports clubs. It could be about associations. It is now running tricky and in the new, merged municipality you can also organize that kind of thing much better, especially in the interest of the inhabitants of that municipality. Mr Bishop said that the province could have explored other options as well. A lot of research has been done. We were just talking about the long history this file has. Research was carried out in 2009. Research was carried out in 2013. Research was carried out in 2015. The collaborations that have already been carried out and with which we have worked have, in fact, always failed to deliver enough for the inhabitants of these municipalities. That is why it has been said: this is not a sustainable solution for the Hoeksche Waard. There is a limit to how much we can squeeze out of these forms of cooperation in the interests of the inhabitants. In a reclassification municipality there are many more possibilities for improvements. Mr Bishop asked first, but others also said: shouldn't municipalities decide on this first and perhaps last? In this particular case, I think it is very relevant that municipalities have said: we think something should be done, we cannot agree on what should then be done, province, take over the direction of the process. An impasse is not good. If there is an impasse, I think it is very good to call for help from the outside. That is what happened in this case. And that's how the county's set itself up. Mr Bishop also said that this should not result in provinces coming up with blueprints. The Empire does not make blueprints, we here in this Chamber do not make blueprints, then provinces should not do that either. I think he's absolutely right about that. I don't see this as a blueprint imposed by the county. I see the province as a director, who, in consultation with the municipalities, has provided a perspective, and that perspective is that reclassification. The process has been carefully completed. There have been visitation committees and there have been talks with all involved. By the way, I am talking not only about directors, but also about civil society. That is the way in which the province has filled that out, and that is indeed something other than making a blueprint from above, which I would not want either. Mr Van Raak and others asked how this could be a happy marriage in this way. I think you should say you're talking about municipalities that have been living together for a long time. In such a relationship too, mediation may sometimes be necessary. That's actually how I see this process. There are examples of this yesterday, I believe, also mentioned Goeree-Overflakkee, where there have been very positive developments, where residents, entrepreneurs and directors have started to work well together and the combination has had positive effects, both economically and socially, as well as for livingability. I am confident that this can also happen in Hoeksche Waard, with one municipal government and at the same time with all due respect for the local identities of the cores. I am confident that once the decision has been taken and that clarity is provided, people will simply turn their backs on it and do so. I have already said a few things about the basis of support. Perhaps a few more questions from Mr Krol. He suggested there might be another merger in 20 years. I don't have a glass ball and I can't see into the future, but I can see into the past. As I said, in 1960 the then Minister for the Interior, who did not want to deal with a border correction, said that one reclassification plan would be desirable for the whole area. In 2001, this was also indicated by the then Minister for the Interior, when there was another reclassification. This has such a long history that I think, now that the five municipalities themselves say: we want this, but we do not come to the conclusion that this reclassification is necessary and that it will not lead to new wishes in five years, ten years or twenty years, but rather to a conclusion of a long history. Mr Krol also asked whether it was true that there was no referendum in two municipalities, namely those two municipalities which are in favour of this. That's right. Two municipalities, Oud-Beijerland and Strijen, did not hold a referendum. They have chosen to measure acceptance in a different way through walk-in evenings with residents and through conversations, as I said, with civil society organisations. So there has been involvement of the inhabitants, but no referendum has been chosen for that. As I said in the previous debate, as far as I am concerned, municipalities decide whether or not they want to do so by referendum. I have already said something about cooperation. Mrs Özütok asked, and indeed Mrs Den Boer, for attention to be paid to the accessibility of the facilities. That must of course be one of the spearheads of the new municipality. Local politicians have also pointed out that this is a key issue for them. They are also thinking about very concrete issues such as participation, recreational opportunities, Sunday rest and also municipal facilities. I believe it was Mrs Den Boer who, as an example, mentioned the passports that could be delivered at home. In this way, hands and feet are given very practically. That seems to me to be an important point of attention, and I hope that will be an answer to Mrs Özütok's question. Finally, Mrs Den Boer spoke about core policy. She actually asked if I am prepared to see that active core policies are pursued. I think that the proposal before us is actually a prerequisite. This needs to be properly shaped. I understand from the documents and from what has been said that the Hoeksche Waard and the current five municipalities see this as well as the province. So I'd be happy to tell her that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you. That was the government's first term. I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. That is the case, at least with Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr President, thank you, if only to thank the Minister again for answering the questions. I shall also include the previous item on the agenda. I'd like to do that with my heartfelt heart. The role of the province is one point that is clearly lacking. It is suggested that these churches, in despair, lifting their hands to heaven, have turned to the province with the words: we are not coming out, help us. However, there is also another version of the interference of the province. That gives a slightly different view of the role played by the province, also more in the sense of: you come out, it has to be unanimous and if not we will arrange something. Those different versions always make it a bit difficult. This means that, thanks to the Minister for his answer, we will involve the answers in our deliberations. We'll sleep on it again and then we'll definitely get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u78	Always wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u79	Thank you, Mr President, for these words of appreciation. It encourages a human being. We are doing our best, Mr President, and we hope to vote wisely for or against next week. We'll leave that over the market for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u80	You keep the tension in, thank you, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u81	I realize that Mr Bosma will be breaking down over the next week, the uncertainty in which the SGP leaves him, but yes, unfortunately, I cannot offer him any more at the moment. If he appreciates it, I'd like to have a pastoral conversation with him so he can get through the week. I'm always willing to do that, but that's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u82	That's what you promised me, so he's coming after me. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. You're gonna be very busy with those MPs. I shall give the Minister the floor, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr President, I shall be very brief. I think I wish only Mr Bishop a very good night's sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u85	About the bill and the motions filed... No, no motions have been tabled. We're just gonna vote on the bill next Tuesday. I would like to thank everyone, especially the people who have come here today to follow this debate closely.
