ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u1	Having said that, I now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven, on behalf of the SP, for his question to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, whom I warmly welcome, as indeed the people in the public gallery. Mr Van Gerven asked a question about the imminent closure of 22 emergency services and intensive care as a result of the requirements of the Health Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. "Emergency and intensive care are threatening to disappear from the local hospitals," headlines Trouw. "Atttack at small hospitals," writes the Dagblad van het Noord. The SAZ, the Collaborative General Hospitals, an alliance of 30 small and medium-sized hospitals, is again ringing the bell. If new, stricter rules are introduced for emergency and intensive care, 40% of general regional hospitals risk closing down intensive care. For emergency services, the consequences are even greater. This is 22 out of 30 hospitals. The Health and Youth Inspectorate will maintain from 1 July. The SAZ has calculated that this will cost the regional hospitals millions of euros extra and that more than 100 specialists will have to be added, which are not available. Over the past few years, we have seen that small hospitals are struggling and that emergency care, intensive care and clinical obstetrics are disappearing due to the ongoing scaling-up of hospitals. What is the Minister going to do to prevent the doom scenario of these small hospitals from becoming a reality? What is the Minister going to do to prevent these local hospitals from falling down?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u3	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. In Mr Van Gerven's speech, it concerns the SAZ, the Association of Collaborative General Hospitals, which states that the quality requirements for the field are constantly tightened and that this would no longer be feasible for small hospitals. So we are talking about quality standards, quality standards. These are in principle drawn up by the parties in the field themselves, not by the government, but by the professionals. These requirements relate to conditions imposed on the content and organisation of the care. That's what the professionals are about. The drivers remain ultimately responsible for the organisation of the care. It is important for the quality of care that there are such quality requirements. The field is constantly evolving, increasing the quality of care. Actually, I think that's commendable. Only when field parties really don't come out can the Zorginstituut use its perseverance power. This does not happen lightly and is also discussed with the involvement of all parties. Mr. Chairman. So the quality standards aren't mine, not the government's, they're independent. Actually, I think that's very important. In the example referred to by Mr Van Gerven, we are talking about two of those standards. One for intensive care and one for emergency care. I'd like to dwell on both. First, the quality standard for intensive care. The Health Institute, because the field parties did not come out together, used its perseverance force to implement that directive. Since the field parties did not succeed in achieving a quality standard at the time, it is also obvious that not all parties can now be satisfied. This is where S.A.S.A. puts the finger. It has been consulted in the process of setting the standard, but that may be a party that cannot be satisfied. Mr. Chairman. I think it is important to stress that the quality standard for ic is based on independent research into the quality of ic care. Those requirements that have been included thus contribute to better quality intensive care and possibly also to better outcomes for patients. This quality framework aims to increase the quality of care. I'm fine with that, because the patient deserves the best care. Mr. Chairman. The other quality framework is about the emergency care chain. That was written by field parties. There is no question of perseverance by the Healthcare Institute. The requirements in that quality framework have been raised. I think that's a good point. I would like to say that this serves patient safety. Mr Van Gerven's question is what the Minister will do next. Let's get one thing straight. I am not going to interfere with the content of that quality standard, nor with any of its components. That's for health professionals. Secondly, I would like to point out that these health insurance companies have a duty of care and care, including in hospitals. The NZa supervises compliance with that duty of care. What I can imagine, because I have also read the message, is that I agree with the SAZ's concern about the possible insufficient capacity of intensiveists in addition to the data that I get from another party in the care, namely from the Dutch Association for Intensive Care. They have informed me that in recent years at least there has been sufficient capacity for intensiveists to be the latest information from 2017.................................................................................................................................................................................... The second point I would like to make is that it has already been discussed in a debate on the labour market issue in the care sector that we are going to investigate the causes of the shortage of care, where the problem of care in the region and possible shortages in the region will be the starting point. It is the intention to launch this research this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Minister looks away. He's playing down the case, I say through the chairman. Do you know what people care about? That hospital, that county hospital is preserved. Emergency services and intensive care are essential for maintaining a good basic hospital. A good basic hospital, easily accessible, close, increases the quality and quality of life of a region. Let the Minister deal with that. Over the past few years, we've seen what happened. Many hospitals where emergency services and intensive care have disappeared and the hospital is undressed. Oss, the Saint Anna, gone. Woerden, the Hofpoort Hospital, gone. What about the Delfzicht in Delfzijl and the Ruigaard van Putten Hospital in Spijkenisse? And what should the people in Drenthe find of the Minister's story? The Refaja in the high north, in Stadskanaal, in Hoogeveen near Bethesda? And what is the Minister going to do about it? Research has shown that both urgent and intensive care in regional hospitals is good at the moment. Will the Minister intervene and guarantee that this emergency and intensive care in local hospitals will now be preserved? People won't benefit from a year's research in 2018. They're asking for security now. That's what the SAZ is asking the minister. Now offer assurance, Minister, that the emergency and intensive care can be maintained in the local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u6	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr President, maybe we'll talk a little bit along each other's lines. We have and keep these quality standards in the interests of the patient and patient safety. Quality standards are set by professionals. To talk about the ic-care or the emergency care... I think the quality of care will always be in development. We ask professionals, the field, to jointly agree a field standard. What should this quality standard be? I think that quality standards are very important. So just to make the big gesture and say that the ic-care needs to be maintained everywhere or that emergency care needs to be maintained everywhere...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u8	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u9	No, no, no, the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u10	I am concerned about the importance of good care. Patient safety, patient care, I think is a very important concept. I don't look away from that; I look at that permanently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. The Minister himself has indicated that the professionals are not coming out. What caused that? Because in addition to quality there were all kinds of interests, competitive interests between hospitals: who conquers the market and so on. What is needed, Minister, is tailor-made, not cutting-edge guidelines. In a small hospital you can guarantee quality with other solutions. We must realise that quality also means that people can go to their trusted hospital nearby. That's where 90% of the care is best done. Is the Minister prepared to do so because there are problems with introducing an availability allowance for these hospitals for the maintenance of emergency and intensive care? Does the Minister not realize that what people want and think is important is that the small hospitals in their neighborhood, in their region, remain fully and easily accessible to all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u12	That is a rather broad question: to always have the care for the patient in the region available. We are facing a development that concerns will increasingly be concentrated in certain hospitals for certain diseases, for certain groups of patients. Specialization in care is a method to keep costs in the claws. I think that's important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mrs. Van den Berg...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u14	I've got seven seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u15	Those seven seconds go in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr President, one final remark. I've got a state here. In the Netherlands, four times as few beds have disappeared, as much as on average in Europe, for example in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u18	Does the Minister realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u20	However, I would like to ask the Minister about the viability of the regions. Those hospitals perform a general function. It gradually seems that the region is there for the hospitals instead of the hospitals being there for the region. It's very important to liveability, so I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u21	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u22	This will be the talk, not only from now on but actually from the start of this reign. We will have this conversation very often, because on the one hand we see the importance of good care in the Netherlands and on the other hand there is no infinite budget for care. So it's about making choices. For some types of care, we say that the patient should be able to call on it within 45 minutes, i.e. emergency care. For some other medical conditions it is sometimes possible to use a longer travel time, because the patient in a specialized hospital is better off. We'll have that conversation more often. This is sometimes about the patient and sometimes about the viability of the region. We will have to find that balance together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u23	For my understanding, I would like the following to be explained. If a doctor from an ICU in a somewhat smaller hospital has time and space to catch up with the emergency services, then there shouldn't be any regulations that prevent that? You're talking about keeping expenses in the clutches. Then that's the way instead of putting two doctors there for 24 hours, which might not be necessary. You can also give the care workers the confidence that they keep that quality up, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u24	So this is not about a government directive. This is a quality standard drawn up by the professionals themselves. If we have a little time, Mr President, I would like to clarify the content of that quality standard/regulation for intensive care. That quality standard gives...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u25	You do not have that time, because you have as many minutes of speaking time as the others do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u26	Oh, yeah. Well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u27	But in short, of course, it can always be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u28	It's about a standard, a standard that professionals have agreed to. Then it's about the availability and presence of an intensiveist, seven days a week, in each ICU department, during the day, excluding the availability for patient care. So that's not a government deal. That's something the professionals, the caregivers, think is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u29	Your second question, Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u30	But if that appointment from the professionals makes the care unnecessarily expensive and probably too little available, then it is up to the government to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u31	Sure. That is why we have also agreed that if the costs of such a quality standard are to be greatly out of place, then we will do a budget impact analysis. That seems very useful to me. I do not think that this is a money problem, because in the end the availability of intensive workers is a factor in the funding of a hospital. So there is not so much a financial issue as a quality standard in which different parties in the field have different considerations to agree with or disagree with. To be honest, I can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u32	It is good that the Minister also has a passion for the quality of care. I think this is important, but I think we should also look at the accessibility and accessibility of care. The cabinet says "care close" for a reason. I am curious to see how the Minister looks at this and whether he is prepared, if he talks with a number of parties on this issue, to see how, for example, regional tailor-made work could be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u33	If the quality standard is a standard of professionals, I can't say that it applies in North and South Holland and it doesn't apply in Drenthe. That's how clear I need to be. If it is one stroke wider and we are going to look at deficits in the region........................................................................................................................................................................................ I don't think we should go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u34	I fully agree with the Minister on two points. It is good that the quality is getting better and it is also good that not the government but the professionals draw up the quality standards. From there, I have two questions for the Minister. The first question is: if these quality standards are drawn up by the healthcare professionals, then who are they? Are the health professionals from the local hospitals involved in this too? That is not a substantive question. It is purely a procedural question, because I get signals that their sound is not sufficiently taken into account in the decision-making process on quality standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u35	Of course, I expected this question. The organisation concerned, SAZ, was involved in the consultation, but had a different opinion on this quality standard. In the end, their views were not followed. If the Zorginstituut intervenes and uses its perseverance power, it is not the Zorginstituut itself, but the Quality Council that draws up the quality standard. It is mainly professors and directors who are part of that Quality Council. That's a nine-person company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u36	Second question, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u37	My second question. That group of nine people: I am very curious how the interests of regional hospitals are represented. They have a specific individuality, are close to the people. I think, in general terms, that they bring in qualities that should simply have a place in the decision-making process. I now have the impression that that is not the case. I would very much like that to be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u38	I'd like to take that care away. In the case of the Zorginstituut's perseverance power, the Quality Council itself will draw up the quality standard and will always involve relevant parties and experts as much as possible. In the example of the ic directive, the quality standard ic, this has been done in several ways. Firstly, by using the 2015 draft directive, which was drawn up by parties that did not come out together, as a basis for their action. That's one. Two, by keeping a comprehensive inventory of discussion points and arguments among representatives of patients, healthcare professionals, healthcare institutions, health insurers and different experts prior to the deployment process. And three, finally, by consulting the parties involved on the concept quality standard, say: the final product. So in all phases of the trajectory the field is also involved again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u39	Mrs Gerbrands on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u40	As far as PVV is concerned, no discussion on quality requirements. It's a good thing the Healthcare Institute used its perseverance force. The result is that some 20 hospitals are unable to meet the requirements. In previous answers to Mr Van Gerven's question, I have heard the Minister refer between noses and lips to the health insurers and the NZa. We all know that they do have a duty of care, but that they will not hesitate to close down emergency services and ic's. How will this minister avoid becoming the role of health insurers and the NZa he has referred to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u41	Firstly, by having and keeping a close eye on the issue. I understand that in the autumn of 2016 it was still about 12 hospitals that did not meet the requirement of exclusive daytime presence on the weekend, or exclusive evening and night availability of the intenseist, and that number is falling. That's the way. As I said, I would like to see with that Dutch Association for Intensive Care whether that number can be further reduced or how it has been reduced. I now have the figures for 2017. That includes the number of twelve. I understand it's falling in the direction of seven. The number of hospitals struggling with having available and keeping intensiveists is getting smaller. That's the good message. In the other research I announced to you, about shortages in the region, you can at least see as a government party whether that issue is to a large extent occurring or to a lesser extent. That's why I'd like that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u42	Second question, Mrs Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u43	That is very nice, but the inspection will continue as of 1 July 2018. That's in a month. It is good that the Minister is going to look at everything and see if it can be resolved, but should we not ask the inspection not to go ahead and keep it until 1 July, but to postpone it for six months? That seems desirable to me, if we are still watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u44	Not me, Mr. Chairman. The directive was adopted two years ago. On 1 July 2016, the Directive was known. Two years later, enforcement starts through the inspection and there has been room for two years. I actually think that the inspection should take up its role in the interests of the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u45	Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u46	Mr. Chairman. We all want care that is of high quality, but also care that is easily accessible. Sometimes it pinches. I hear the discussion about the exclusive availability of the intensivist. It actually forces the scaling. How is the trade-off made? What is a tough quality requirement and what are things that are more weighted like the questions how important you think accessibility is or how important you think an even higher quality is? Now these things seem to be absolutely a quality measure. I can imagine that there is some room for manoeuvre in areas such as exclusive availability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u47	It's about the content of the care. Do you allow differences in the quality at one hour compared to the other hour, for one patient compared to the other patient, in one region relative to the other? I don't think it's up to the government, but to the professional to set the quality standard. I am also very pleased that the field is making such a powerful effort to keep those quality standards. Eventually care costs money, but if care costs too much money, we always come back here to talk about the extra cost of extra high quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u48	Mrs Pia Dijkstra on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A quick question. We all agree that quality is very important. I fully agree with the Minister. I, too, see that there will be hospitals that will not be able to meet these quality standards. How does the Minister ensure, where appropriate, that there is good quality emergency care or ic-care in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u50	For the E.R., the emergency department, we've agreed to that. For the ic, the intensive care is the duty of care to health insurers. The same applies to emergency care. We are talking very intensively to insurance companies. We have not yet heard this point, namely that the quality requirements for ic-care would be met. We have structural discussions with the health insurance companies that deal with all kinds of issues of this kind. We have just reached broad agreement, precisely on medical-specialist care. This never comes up as an objection and I want to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-2.u52	Thank you.
