ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on abuses in aid organisations and the tightening up of procedures and subsidy frameworks. I give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u2	Sex parties with minors by Oxfam aid workers in a project co-financed with Dutch tax money. UN organisations where vulnerable people refuse to go to emergency centres because they fear that they will have to offer their bodies in return for food. Unfortunately, these are not incidents. There is a long list of these abuses that have come to light in the past period. This shows that there is a moral crisis in the aid sector. The Chamber has recently discussed this matter with the aid organizations. Most recognised the gravity of the situation, but there were also relativistic comments. It is said that it is difficult to operate in a country where sex is a more accepted means of exchange, that borders can fade and that aid workers are talking about their own leisure time. The director of Oxfam Great Britain went so far as to say that it is not the case that babies were killed. Mr. Chairman. The VVD doesn't want to know about this kind of relativization. Abuse is abuse, and zero tolerance could be the only answer. Aid organisations should not have any certainty that they will receive millions of taxpayers' money, no matter how they behave. They must earn their position with effective commitment in the world and by effectively combating abuses. The VVD therefore proposed to recover the Dutch tax money from the Oxfam project, but frustratingly, according to the current grant frameworks, money cannot be recovered. Therefore, the VVD proposed that the grant frameworks be adapted so that this can be done in the future. I would like to thank the Minister today for having the courage to do so. Hopefully this will not only have an effect on paper, but also in practice. We look forward to the Minister's reports and concrete findings on this, and we hope to look forward to them soon. We are also looking forward to adapting the framework law on subsidies. When can we expect it? The VVD also suggested tightening up supervision and introducing a reporting obligation for abuses. The Minister is also doing this, for which I once again congratulate him. However, I would like to ask for the undertaking that the new supervision will also start soon. I would also like to know whether the independent supervisor is adequately equipped. Will the recognition of the CBF become mandatory for all organisations, including as a condition for funding by the Ministry? Are organisations obliged to report all abuses to the CBF and in some cases also to the Ministry itself? Will the CBF assess and report on the integrity policies of all organisations, so that we are not only dependent on the annual reports of organisations, but also really have an independent opinion? That seems desirable to the VVD. Finally, will there also be capacity for monitoring on the ground? Organisations can write everything on paper very nicely, but it's about practice. It seems good to the VVD if there are some kind of surprise visits to projects. Just the idea that this can happen can work very preventively. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this, including in the context of its action plan? Speaking of this action plan, the VVD believes it is important to involve the sector, but we want to prevent organisations, especially those that have not been sufficiently sensitive in the past, from becoming involved in determining how closely they are monitored. How does the Minister prevent the butcher from approving his own meat? And, on the basis of my motion, are there any companies that receive project grants from the Ministry at the table besides the aid organisations? I think that's important, too. Finally, I asked the Minister about alleged bonuses on Oxfam's project in Haiti. The minister writes that despite the term "bonus," it was in fact not a bonus, but a pension compensation for an employee. However, it raised the question as to what is really going on with the remuneration policy of aid organisations. Yeah, organizations do that themselves, but they do it within the limits of the WNT. The VVD finds it undesirable for subsidised aid organisations that are negligent or where malpractices have been detected if the management still gets away with generous rewards or even bonuses. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether it can also intervene in remuneration policy in the event of sanctions following abuses? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u3	I was a little surprised when I heard "finally." We've talked about this subject before in an AO. Then the VVD also had clear language. That was good to hear. Mrs Becker then asked the Minister to see if there was any possibility of recovering funds already subsidised. The Minister said he wasn't. Do I hear from your story that you're going to accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u4	I have said that it is extremely frustrating that it cannot be done, because there was Dutch tax money in the project, and that Oxfam Novib's management has left it in the Netherlands by keeping it under the hat for far too long. I have asked in every possible way whether it is not possible to recover that money or cut it short on future subsidies. I'd love to. But, yeah, what can't comply with the law, it can't. In any case, it is good to see the Minister's response to my desire to adapt the subsidy framework and to be able to recover tax money from organisations in the future. I'm very happy about that. That does not mean that I am completely satisfied, because as far as I am concerned the tax money should have come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u5	That's obvious. So Mrs Becker sees no other way of holding Oxfam Novib responsible, with retroactive effect, for the complete malpractice that gave rise to the comprehensive action plan. I was referring, indeed, to what she just said, namely that perhaps future subsidies could be reduced. Can Mrs. Becker come up with any other options?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u6	I am waiting for Mrs Van Weerdenburg to ask in her own contribution to the Minister about the possibilities. I've done that myself a million times. If suddenly there are possibilities, then I like to join them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u7	I listened with interest to Mrs Becker's speech. I regret that you did not mention in your speech that all this tax money is also doing very good things in development aid and cooperation. But I'd also like to ask you a question. You gave it to me. I have just lost the exact text that there is a moral bankruptcy. At least you had a comment in that vein. That's why I was listening with extra interest. You focus very much on taxpayers' money, on the fact that all these abuses happened with taxpayers' money. But if you look at the moral aspect of this case, I can imagine that you say that this should not, in principle, happen, so not even when it comes to money from companies, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u8	Of course, I totally agree with Mrs Diks. That's what I said. Abuse is abuse. Then zero tolerance must apply. I think there is also supervision of charities that do not get taxpayers' money but get money from people like you and I who decide to donate money to it because they think it's a good cause. I also think that those people have a right to know what happens to their money. I would therefore like to see a very good monitoring of this too. I also said there was a moral crisis. It's not just one incident. I didn't even have time today to mention all the events that are very sad in all kinds of different organisations. Unfortunately, there are far too many of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u9	Yes, there are abuses. The Minister sent a fine letter about this too. I will, of course, refer to this in my contribution in a moment. But I am sorry that you are only focusing very much on development cooperation organisations. Mistakes of this nature occur in all kinds of places, so we have noticed with each other. I would appreciate it if you could say this: from now on, instead of just focusing on abuses in development aid organisations, put it more in context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u10	This plenary debate and also the Minister's approach are about abuses in the aid sector. Mrs Diks may have missed it, but in an earlier debate we also talked about the responsibility of business. That was because of the abuses with promotional girls at Heineken. I have tabled a motion with broad support from the Chamber. Perhaps Mrs Diks herself has also supported it in order to ensure that abuse with zero tolerance is dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u11	I listened with interest to what my colleague from the VVD gave us today. We all express our disgust at these abuses and the situation that has taken place in Haiti. I think that's being shared Chamberwide. My question to my colleague from the VVD is the following. A lot of these organizations are listening now. There have recently been fatalities at the Red Cross. A lot of aid workers have to do their job under very difficult conditions. Does the colleague of the VVD also see the context and the difficult circumstances in which these aid workers have to do their job? Could she say something about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u12	In the various debates we have with each other on development cooperation and development aid, the broad context of the work is emerging, as is the fact that the Netherlands, as the seventh donor in the world, is trying to make a contribution with 5.6 billion in money. Good-willed people try to do that in a very good way. This will be discussed in all these debates. But today we're talking about where things aren't going well. I do not think that one has much to do with the other. Of course, in all these other debates we should also talk about how we can support people and how we can ensure that their work is effective, but today we are talking about how we can ensure that abuses are not covered. My questions are addressed to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u13	Finally, Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u14	I understand your point very well. I would argue with you that the good should not suffer the evil. I do not know whether you agree with me on this, because that was actually the basis of my comment. There are numerous, hundreds of international aid organisations working worldwide under often difficult conditions. Indeed there are a few rotten apples; I will argue that in a moment. But my question to you is: do you want to ensure that when we take measures and take action, we do so proportionally and in such a way that all those others, the good ones, who work hard and ensure that the needy get help, can continue to do their job?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u15	I know that Mr Bouali is not referring to this as a relativization of the problem, but to the fact that he is saying that there are also good organisations. We did not invite these organizations to the Chamber on my initiative for nothing, to question them ourselves. Some felt that urgency, but some quite frankly did not, or not enough. So I am concerned about that, because we are now going to work with these organisations to draw up an action plan. That is why I asked the Minister how she would ensure that organisations continue to feel the urgency to really change things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u18	I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr. Chairman. Last February, we woke up. In an area where people have lost everything because of earthquakes, a number of aid workers, including a chef, are having sex parties. The abuses in Haiti were the beginning of a series of abuses that came to light. Misusing your position as an aid provider to the needy runs counter to every moral that our society should stand for and what the OS sector stands for. I have also noticed the feeling of shame in the sector. I have also seen a good response: protocols have been strengthened and these practices have been abandoned. But honestly, I've also missed the guilt awareness among some. It looked more like outrage that this was picked up like this. I find such a reaction incomprehensible, because if you are keen on others, you must be open and firm to yourself and to sister organizations with which you work. The CDA is one of the parties that directly called for action to address abuses, but I oppose parties that use these events to shorten OS resources. That is the abuse of wrongdoing, which double hits the most vulnerable. The CDA is very much behind the many aid workers who, under dangerous conditions, set their lives in the hands of people in need. On the contrary, these abuses call for an extra commitment to the position of vulnerable people. That is something that this coalition and this cabinet are committed to. As a government and society, we have allowed things like this to happen. First of all, we all have to do within our own powers what is possible to eradicate this behavior. The responsibility for keeping integrity policy in order lies with the organisations themselves. It is also good to see that the sector is working on a joint action plan. My compliments to the Minister, too. The focus on integrity and the prevention of abuses is now laid down in the review procedures and the grant framework. A hotline has also been set up within the Ministry, with "zero tolerance for not acting." Ultimately, the most important change to address cross-border behaviour must come from the sector. On paper, policy can look good, but in practice, culture can be different. The cultural change that is needed can be achieved by creating trust, which means that giving things openly is not a danger, but doing nothing does. We must strive for trust between workers, between the needy and the aid workers, between the NGOs and the government and between politics and the OS sector. We need to trust and test behavior instead of just on paper. Inspection visits could be a good example of this. Does the Minister also see the need for cultural change? Does she see a role for herself in that? The wrongs are not over if we have everything in order here in the Netherlands. It is important that we keep this issue on the agenda at international level. Victims need to be clear about where they can report in cases of abuse. Before the end of the year, the Minister will report on the progress made. I would like to see this earlier, and I would like to see references to the proposed actions already made, for example, in the Autumn paper. This can only be political, but also budgetary if necessary. In the case of repeated reports of cross-border behaviour, I believe that the Minister can go further than she is now proposing. In the case of repeated reports, only financial consequences are not sufficient. At the same time, I would like to ask at what time the Minister estimates that work can be done with the humanitarian passport. Mr. Chairman. The Minister stated in her letter that the proposed measures could not eliminate incidental cases. Although I fear that this is the case, it must be our objective. We need to eliminate all cases. Our aim must be to protect all mothers, daughters, brothers, sisters, nieces and nephews from sexual exploitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mrs Kuik just triggered me by saying that there are parties that are taking advantage of this moral crisis to argue once again for the abolition of development aid. Of course, that makes me feel appealed to, because my party has been advocating this for years. That does not alter the fact that we have attended all the discussions, debates and round tables and that we have thought along with them. We have felt the people mentioned by Mrs Kuik who have shown little remorse. And today we're standing here again. Raising up for donors who have donated their hard-earned money to Oxfam, who deals with it in this way and hardly shows any repentance at all, is not the same as abusing abuses. I'm really offended by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u21	Thank you for this interruption. I also hope that the PVV will support the idea that we should make an extra effort on the position of vulnerable people, especially in this position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mrs Kuik talked about the fact that we have heard a lot about this subject, and we have heard a lot about it on paper, but that practice is a lot more uncomfortable. Did I hear her say that she liked the VVD a good idea to give the supervisor the opportunity to make inspection visits and surprise visits? Because that is what preventive action is supposed to be. Then the organisations also know that it does not only have to be done on paper, but that someone can also come by in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u23	That is, of course, an important point. How do you ensure that it actually happens in practice and that we do not just tick a list on paper? So I ask the Minister if there are any inspection visits yet. Would that be an instrument that we could use even more precisely to see this cultural change?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Everywhere in the world, aid workers are working to save lives, to provide acute aid to the most vulnerable in the world and to improve the living conditions of the needy. The work these aid workers do is not easy. On the contrary, it is heavy and noble work. They often work in the most miserable conditions in places where the need is highest and often at risk for their own lives. For example, I have just referred to this in my intervention in Syria since the beginning of the conflict, which has killed more than 70 aid workers. Mr. Chairman. We are debating abuses in aid organisations today. Unfortunately, such abuses take place everywhere, whether you look at the film industry, the church, the fashion industry or business. Unfortunately, the emergency aid sector is not an exception. Let me be very clear: the sexual misconduct we saw is unacceptable. With horror, my group took note of the terrible practices in Haiti. As others have said, we have zero tolerance for that. It is staggering and terrible to see that there are people who exploit the most vulnerable in this world, that there are people who abuse the most needy. I think that's really horrible. I am therefore pleased to see that aid organisations and development organisations take the fight against exploitation seriously and the alleged misconduct seriously. For example, I have seen this with my own eyes. Two weeks ago in Jordan, I visited a refugee camp where over 80,000 Syrian refugees stayed in tents. I saw signs and posters of various NGOs, including Save the Children, where the code of conduct was clearly visible, in English and Arabic. No one could get around it. D66 welcomes the deployment of aid and development organisations and the commitment of this Minister. We are pleased that there is an Integrity Action Plan, that the possibility of a humanitarian passport is being examined and that there will be a reporting obligation and a hotline. I am equally satisfied with the tightening up of the procedures and funding frameworks proposed by this Minister, in particular the international approach and the possibility of a humanitarian Ombudsman in crisis areas. D66 is also pleased that the Minister is acting decisively and taking the issue seriously, where her predecessors seemed to look away. D66 would like to stress once again that abuses involving aid organisations are incidents. It is not the case that the whole sector is now bad, quite the contrary. A rotten apple doesn't mean the whole fruit basket is spoiled. We understand the need to tighten up procedures and grant frameworks. We understand that measures are being asked and are being taken. But I would also like to stress that the measures should not be at the expense of the work of aid workers for those in need, because that is what we all do in the end. Aid and development organisations and their staff must be able to continue to do their job, because they are doing a good job. My group wonders whether acute emergency aid is not now hampered by the large quantities of tightening-up, additional rules and additional accountability mechanisms. In other words, are the measures taken proportionate? I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. One more specific question on the international approach. Next Tuesday 19 June is the International Day for the Elimination of Sexual Violence in Conflict. I'm sure the Minister is planning a lot on this subject this day. Does she also see the possibility of once again condemning the abuses we are talking about, cross-border and criminal behaviour, on this particular day? Finally, Mr President. D66 believes that the Netherlands should continue to work worldwide for human rights, for an international legal order and for the people in vulnerable positions. That is what we need the aid workers in crisis areas very badly for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Early this year we were faced with a shocking abuse case at Oxfam Novib. In the emergency work in Haiti, although at its own expense, prostitutes were hired by Oxfam employees who were probably underage. The prostitutes, then. In response to this case, other reports about sexual misconduct in aid organisations were also launched, as with Doctors Without Borders. GroenLinks, just as I assume the entire Chamber, is disgusted by this misconduct. It is in the context that we see in several areas that sexual misconduct is emerging in places where dependency relationships are involved. During the debate we had with the Chambers Committee on International Corporate Social Responsibility, my colleague Becker of the VVD was right to ask for attention to sexual misconduct in companies operating abroad, such as Heineken's promotional girls. It is a good thing that her motion calling for better reporting on this issue and for funding frameworks to be strengthened by the whole Chamber, with the exception of the Democracy Forum, has been supported. Also the #MeToo discussion, the scandals of abuse in the church and abuse in sports clubs, show that where men are often given a power relationship that is not adequately controlled, sexual misconduct is given the opportunity to usurp. It is a permanent task for the government and for us as a parliament that we use all the means we have to control such relations of power. We also need to organise our subsidy policy in such a way that organisations will feel financially when they do too little to prevent, prevent and punish abuse. I realise that it is a bit unusual for an opposition party, but I would like to express my full support for the measures announced by the Minister, such as tightening up the subsidy and review frameworks and strengthening the role of the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u28	Mrs Diks rightly points out that the abuses of the Haitian project have been terrible. I have had a debate with her on this before. Then I asked her what she thinks of the performance of the Dutch management of Oxfam, who knew but didn't act on it. I did not get a very clear answer to that at the time, so I ask her if she would be willing to give this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u29	I do like this interruption, because I would like to say the following. The abuses took place under the leadership of the British branch of Oxfam, not Oxfam Novib, the Dutch branch. In this sense, it is a little strange that we are having a discussion about this in the Dutch Parliament over and over again. I very much agree with you, as we have pointed out on several occasions, that these abuses should not occur. I think that's what we're all gonna find. That's very clear. In my opinion, the Dutch management immediately issued a message that it naturally strongly dislikes the behaviour of British colleagues in Haiti. That's clear. There has never been any misunderstanding about that, at least not in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mrs Diks points out that it is strange that we speak about it in the Dutch Parliament, but Oxfam Novib Netherlands has given millions of Dutch taxpayers' money to the project in Haiti. That may have happened in good faith, but at some point it has been given information that it was not good. My question is: does Mrs Diks agree that the board should have acted much earlier? When it all came to light in the media, the board quickly issued a press release. But shouldn't they have done that much earlier? Shouldn't they have been ringing the bell? Shouldn't they have asked for the funds back, because ultimately the money wasn't handled in good faith? Shouldn't the board have acted much more sensitively?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u31	This discussion remains very difficult. We can have this conversation over and over again, but it is really very clear: no Dutch subsidy money has been misused in Haiti. When this story came out, I think the Minister made this very clear in her response. I really object to you trying to make that impression again and again and again and again and that implies, or worse, simply saying it. It just hasn't happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mrs. Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u33	May I have a very brief word, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u34	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u35	I would like to respond to this, because this very reflex is making things worse for me: there has been no abuse of money and so we do not need to talk about it here. But this debate about legality has led to bad behaviour being covered up for years. Even if there has been no illegal use of Dutch taxpayers' money, does Mrs Diks agree that there was Dutch taxpayers' money in a project in which things have happened that cannot stand the light of day? So we should also debate this and vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u36	We need to talk about the things we go about. We sometimes talk about things where we generally have a moral view, but we can also talk about them outside the conversation. Outside in the sense of: during round tables, during conversations in all kinds of places, in the newspaper, you name it. No one denied that what happened in Haiti was morally reprehensible, not even Oxfam Novib. I do not have to defend them in that sense, but that has never been the case. They always immediately indicated that they thought it was reprehensible behavior. So I find it a little more friendly, complicated that you keep putting things that are not really of the House of Representatives on the table and want to have the conversation in this place. You may not be able to respond to that at this time, but I also object to you confusing all kinds of roles in the House of Representatives. We need to test in our controlling task... I understand that there is coordination between PVV and VVD. So that question is going to be asked in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mrs Becker may respond to it, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u38	Yeah, she can still respond. But I object to you confusing those roles. We must check here how this Minister for Foreign Trade and Development has spent her money. I think we should have a moral discussion about this in other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mrs. Becker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u40	I just got a little dumb-assed for a second. Mrs Diks says to stand up for the sector, but if she doesn't understand this, I'm very worried if there's enough sense of reality about what's going on here. You can say we don't have to have this conversation here in the House of Representatives. But we see what happens with Dutch taxpayers' money, but also with money from people who are just sitting at home in front of TV, happening in Haiti. Those people thought, "I'm gonna donate money for this." A whole part of that money has also gone here. Those people should then read in the newspaper that there was simply abuse by aid workers with underage children. Next, they hear from GroenLinks that this is not a matter for the House of Representatives, as Dutch tax money is ultimately legally spent. Then we're a long way from the solution. I am glad that the Minister does not choose this course and says: I am going to intervene firmly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u41	At the risk of getting a little one-two: I really object to this. I believe that I have already indicated in the first rules that the situation in Haiti is not possible. That's what GroenLinks said from day one. The Minister said the same from day one. Everyone said it. Oxfam Novib in the Netherlands said from day one: this should not have happened. I find it really insufferable, almost, that you are now blaming me for standing up for development aid organisations that are doing incredibly good work and who have also said very clearly: this cannot be done; this behaviour is morally reprehensible. Feeding in exchange for sex, sex parties, all that stuff shouldn't happen. Everyone said that. I am not going to let the House of Representatives say that GroenLinks would justify that behavior. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u42	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u43	I'm gonna try to be very quiet and short. I'm not saying GroenLinks doesn't distance himself from what happened there. I find it only shocking that GroenLinks does not think it is a matter for the House of Representatives, while it is about Dutch taxpayers' money, but also about money from Dutch people who have supported Oxfam Novib in good faith. They should have been able to rely on Oxfam to act as soon as it got this information. Oxfam didn't do that. All I have asked Mrs Diks is whether she agrees with me that Oxfam has dropped Novib in it. She doesn't want to confirm that. She doesn't want to go along with that. I'll leave that to her. But that's how I'm in it, so let's be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u44	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u45	I think that's made clear. You're gonna have to think about how far your responsibility goes. The Minister has made it clear that no Dutch development aid money has been misused, and for me it was clear and clear that even after further investigation it has been found that no Dutch development aid money has been misused. Period. The fact that the British Oxfam branch did wrong in Haiti is clear. No one made a point that wouldn't be true. It's perfectly clear. But I also think it was very clear that no Dutch money has been misused. But you say it every time in this House of Representatives as if that implication were there. I object to that, because it is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u46	I'm always happy to see Mrs. Diks, a fine colleague. However, unfortunately, I would have preferred to have her group mate Tom van der Lee in front of me today, because then we might have gotten a little more insight into how it could have happened that Oxfam Novib did so. He was a member of the board at the time, a member of the board, until recently. For a good problem analysis it is also important to see what happened, how it could have happened and what the lesson for the future is. I understand from Mrs Diks and van GroenLinks that they do not want to talk about this, especially for the cameras, especially not here in the Chamber, but that is not how it works in Parliament. You can't choose what you do or don't want to discuss. And yes, it's true: GroenLinks' fingerprints are all about this. Did Mrs Diks herself ask her groupmate about the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u47	Always willing to take responsibility. That's what I'm here to do as a Member of Parliament. And I'm very aware of that, too. But I think I've already had about three times, but maybe it's four, indicating that the information sent from the Ministry has become clear, again, that no Dutch subsidy money has been used in the wrong way. So if you keep asking "but what about Oxfam Novib and how did it all go there?" I think it's been investigated by the Ministry. It has become clear that there has been no abuse. This is without prejudice to the fact that what happened in Haiti should not have happened. But I think that everyone has clearly indicated this from the first day that this became known, also in public and also in GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mrs. Diks is talking about it, because that's not what I meant. I'm really talking about not being made public by Oxfam Novib's management of the report when he got it. They passed that on selectively to the Ministry. It took a long time for our committee to find out what was true, and who knew what when. When I hear Mrs Diks like that, she must also rely on the information provided by the Minister, so she has not asked herself at all or perhaps not received any information from her own group colleague. Again, that surprises me very much. I get it. Attack is the best defense, which is why you're standing here so brightly and that's your right. But they did drop it anyway. I can only conclude that you do not want to discuss it and do not want to know the truth. And that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u49	In the category of 'things which are factually incorrect and which I am far removed from myself'.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because if you're going to imply here that I'm not telling the truth, or that I'd like to talk about it... That is in no way the issue. I think I have addressed the questions raised earlier from the VVD and now from you, the PVV. No discussion at all. I think it is clear that at the time of that situation in Haiti a number of people who were associated with GroenLinks worked there. That's obvious. Everyone knows that, too. We are not here in the pub debating a bit; we are in the House of Representatives. And in my role as a Member of Parliament, I'm going to rely on the information that comes from the Ministry. I think it has been very clearly and far behind the decimal point figured out how it was put together. I accept that information. I'm okay with that. And from that I deduce very clearly also by the Minister at the time stated that no Dutch subsidy money has been misused. So I don't know how far behind the comma the PVV would like to look here, but if I hear that there has been no abuse, I know enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u50	Finally, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. You have mentioned this point a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u51	Yeah, excuse me. We're talking about the transmission of information by Oxfam Novib. I listened very carefully to Mrs Diks. But the terms you use are "yes, I think they've passed that on right" and "in my view, it's done well and done well." Mrs Karimi, GreenLinkscoryfee of Oxfam Novib, admitted that she wanted to do things differently and so did your group colleague. So it's not like we're looking for nails on low water. You're not clear yourself and then you're blaming me for not getting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u52	It is true that, in my opinion, Oxfam Novib reported it to the Ministry very quickly when this story came out and that it was also in several reports. That apparently it wasn't in the foreword or on the front page, well, those were his choices. But as far as I know, this information has not been withheld by Oxfam Novib.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u54	Let's see. I was talking about strengthening subsidy and review frameworks and strengthening the role of the supervisor. I made great compliments to the Minister. And that's not that crazy at all, because as I said, I assume that the whole Chamber is against sexual misconduct and will support measures that can help to stop sexual misconduct. I do have some questions about the Minister's firm action plan. For example, she writes that the Dutch Relief Alliance will investigate the possibilities of introducing a so-called humanitarian passport. The aim could be to prevent people who have previously committed sexual misconduct from getting involved in another aid organisation. Of course GroenLinks can fully endorse that intention, but in my opinion the question arises as to what exactly Dutch Relief Alliance is going to investigate and especially at what time. Apart from the fact that it may not have to be called a passport because it implies a document with legal consequences, it seems quite simple to work to ensure that as many aid organisations as possible are behind an initiative to draw up such a document for their staff. Or do I think it's too simple? What are in the Minister's eyes the bears on the road? And in what time does she think that the Dutch Relief Alliance's commitment will be successful? And then one final question. The Minister also states that regulator CBF will introduce a reporting obligation and amend standards and will carry out a zero measurement for this purpose. That seems very sensible to us. Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about what the CBF is going to look at in this zero measurement, what time it will take and whether the results can be sent to the Chamber? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are gathered here today for a sad occasion, as we often do in this house. For the umpteenth time, girls and women have been victims of sexual harassment and violence. And yet this afternoon we must be careful to put the whole sector on the dock, because, as has already been mentioned, NGOs and international aid organisations are doing essential work under often difficult and dangerous conditions, especially in terms of strengthening women and girls. They often do this against the currents, in an increasingly shrinking area for civil society worldwide. They deserve praise for that. The abuse of vulnerable women and girls by aid workers in various places in the world is a major scandal which has rightly been disgusted by almost the entire Chamber. Unfortunately, such scandals are not on their own. Heineken has already been mentioned with the so-called promotional girls in several African countries, but in the Netherlands there is still a world to win where the safety of women and girls is concerned. Within sport, within the film industry, within the media, defence, religious communities and, unfortunately, also in the workplace, there is sexual harassment and cross-border behaviour. And here too, many of these incidents are being covered up, as was the case initially in Haiti. The reporting capacity must be increased. That is why we are pleased that there will be a hotline for cross-border behaviour. I would also like to thank the Minister for her vigorous approach to involving the sector itself in the search for solutions. In this context, I still have a question about the impact of the strengthened subsidy frameworks and the extensive reporting obligation. The Court will now be informed annually of the number of reports of cross-border conduct and its consequences. Does this also apply to other receiving organisations, including industry? And is the Minister prepared to share her experience and insight in this area with her colleagues in other departments within the SDG agenda? Mr. Chairman. To really eradicate this problem by root and branch, we are not there to lay down rules. I wish it were that easy. It begins with recognizing the excesses of the patriarchy, the structural power inequality between men and women. Because what all the aforementioned examples have in common is that it is often men who occupy the higher positions while the victims are often women. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister how she looks at the importance of more women in top positions and whether she sees a role for herself in this, for example within subsidy frameworks. Because only when women are as sure as men that their voices are heard will there really be an end to power inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u58	Thank you, Mr President. The Chamber had to wait a long time for the Minister's letter. It has become a letter of seven sides. A package of measures covering four tracks, divided into numerous action points and development projects. From working groups with NGOs to letters addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. No less than 25 bullet points with roaring intentions. Minister Kaag hasn't been idle. With regard to strengthening procedures and funding frameworks, the Minister shall focus on prevention, alerting, enforcement and accountability. That sounds like clear language. But we must not forget the occasion for this action plan of unprecedented proportions: the unveiling that Oxfam employees organised sex parties in Haiti in 2011 with vulnerable underage girls. In the aftermath of the Oxfam scandal, more revelations of sexual abuse followed with other organisations. It seems now that they are not incidents, but a structural problem. Mr. Chairman. If you need an action plan of seven sides to prevent aid workers from committing a crime against vulnerable children and women in crisis situations, is there something really wrong with your aid industry? If you have to contract with subsidised aid organizations that they have to report sexual abuse? If you have to tie them in writing to a clause that says they have to pass on information about abuse and not try to shove them under the carpet, like Oxfam Novib Director Karimi did? If all this is necessary, then surely there is a total moral bankruptcy of the aid industry? If new rules or protocols are going to help against them, I ask the Minister. Let us not forget that there was already regulation. Almost all NGOs already had a code of conduct, in most countries prostitution is prohibited by law and every human being should have a certain degree of moral awareness. In the Oxfam case, the procedures worked to the extent that the abuse was reported, an internal investigation was followed and the results were recorded in a report. Then that report ended up on the Oxfam director's desk and it went wrong. Then it began to weaken and selectively pass on information. Also Oxfam Novib's board did not have the decency to put an end to this cover-up. Director Farah Karimi and her accomplices deliberately opted for the survival of their fat paid jobs and thus took the chance that Haiti's perpetrators could make more victims elsewhere in the industry. Mr. Chairman. I understand that the Minister wants to look ahead, but it is often very valuable for a good problem analysis to look back again, to understand how and why such an abuse scandal could have arisen and persisted. Looking back, what does the Minister think of the performance of Oxfam Novib Director Karimi? Why is it allowed to go to the Ministry as an interlocutor to talk about new regulations and protocols which are now being created in order to prevent future situations that have been blamed for many years? How credible that is, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Minister will take this seriously and not end it with a 'I am not talking about the dolls', because in her letter she promises that a principle of 'zero tolerance for not acting' will apply in the assessment of reported abuses. Nice words, but the PVV doesn't want it to be just words. We call on the Minister to take action in particular. Her credibility is at stake here. Is she willing to set Oxfam Novib as an example for others? Is it prepared to make it clear to the aid industry that there are indeed consequences of missteps? Minister, make it clear that you mean what you say by acting on it as well. Because if you don't, you will lose all credibility now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u59	Thank you. Oh, Mr Bouali has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u60	I have listened carefully to what Mr Van Weerdenburg has given us here. I was curious. My colleague Sjoerdsma has called for an investigation into sexual harassment in the House of Representatives. Your group voted against it. That's not what you're here for. You do ask this Minister to take all kinds of measures when it happens abroad. I'd like to hear how you reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u61	I have just listened to Mr Bouali's contribution. I'm really stunned that you actually abused such a serious case as the abuse of underage girls in Haiti by aid workers. Someone was talking about abuse of abuses for a #MeToo discussion, which is not at all about today. I'd be happy to have that discussion with you, even if it's not my wallet, but that's not the point. You draw it wider: and oh, it also happens in the film industry and oh, everywhere where men are is abuse. You're really gonna take it away from what happened. I am glad that the Minister at least sees the urgency more than your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u62	No, I do see the urgency too. I have already mentioned in my contribution how important it is for us to take action. I just have a very simple question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u63	Yeah, I'm fine. The spokesperson of the PVV has clearly indicated what we think and that the #MeToo discussion is completely over. Good reasons have been given. I don't have them on paper, because that's not what this is about today. But I find it really impossible for you to use this now. Of all the questions you could have asked me, that's what you're asking. It's exemplary and weak that you have nothing better, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u64	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. Finally, Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mr. Chairman. Thousands of volunteers and employees of aid organisations work day and night to help people in need, people in need. Let me thank them all and ask them to continue their work, because people in need deserve help and support. However, there are bastards, as in all sectors, who abuse the situation, taking advantage of the weakness of another. A shocking message in February of this year: Oxfam Novib employees paid survivors of the Haiti earthquake for sex. A message like that shockes the country. That scares the hell out of everyone. How come after an earthquake like that, you pay survivors for sex? Haiti experienced a devastating earthquake in 2010, ending many tens of thousands of lives. The whole world sent help to the devastated land. Oxfam Novib also sent a humanitarian mission. The humanitarian mission staff behaved terribly badly. Haitians affected by a terrible natural disaster were used as prostitutes. Sometimes it even turned out to be about minors. It didn't stop there. An internal report showed that Oxfam employees were guilty of intimidation and bullying, abused the organization's resources and did not adequately protect other employees. An organization you expect to do the right thing turns out to have actually done bad deeds. That is absolutely outrageous. In 2012, the Ministry found out what happened. What did the Ministry do next? Nothing at all. The Minister described it as an internal personnel issue. When the minister found out it was about these horrible crimes, the ministry didn't put any follow-up action on it. Isn't that outrageous, I ask the Minister? It is found that an aid organisation working with the Ministry is acting terribly badly, but no action is being taken at all. Is the Minister judging this? Is the Minister prepared, instead of writing down excuses in a letter, to reject this? Did the minister say that there were officials sleeping? Or was this affair just covered up? And then the victims. Victims who have been abused. We read in reports that Oxfam Novib did not report the abuses to the authority in Haiti. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. How does she feel about the unsubs getting out? Is it prepared to insist that the abuses be reported to the authority? Mr. Chairman. Not only with Oxfam Novib there were abuses, also with other organizations. It is therefore important to take action. On the one hand, preventive. We read that the assessment of funding will now look at the integrity policy of organisations. What exactly does this mean? What are the provisions on victim support? What are the provisions on reporting? Is this also meant, for example, that aid organisations should also report suspicions of abuse to the police? I'd like a response. We also read that the Minister wishes to amend the Foreign Ministry's Framework Law on grants so that there are wider possibilities for action. When will the Minister send this change to the Chamber? I would also like to comment on this point. In addition to prevention, we also consider it important that sanctions are applied. As far as DENK is concerned, penalties for such abuses cannot be severe enough. In the Minister's letter we read a lot of the word "can." A measure "may' be imposed. A budget "can" be recovered. As far as DENK is concerned, it is not time for "can" but for "must." Finally, Mr President. Can the Minister guarantee us that, if serious abuses are not reported to the Ministry, recovery of funds will be carried out at all times? Can the Minister also assure us that if serious abuses are not reported to the police, funds will be recovered? Is there a clear assessment framework for this? I would like to comment on all these points. I am considering tabling motions on this matter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u66	That was the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u67	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also to all Members of Parliament, who have shown their interest, commitment or critical distance through their portion of questions and critical reasoning. The first important point is that there is unanimity on rejecting all forms of abuse, in particular sexual abuse, and abuses in the aid sector, which are indeed subject to hard-earned tax payments, in good faith and in the expectation of measurable, demonstrable results to be achieved on an integrity basis. The second thing I would like to say is that you know this from my letter on the aid sector. In fact, it is more of a sector that seeks to achieve humanitarian and sustainable development goals through international cooperation. This often happens internationally, under very difficult circumstances. It still achieves great results, sometimes the impossible, for people in need, in crisis areas. They take personal risks for their own lives, without ever asking a question. There are many aid workers in the year out under very difficult conditions living, living and working among the people. We have quite clear and clear demands for this. But we must also retain the sense of reality very well in order to acknowledge and dare to acknowledge the enormous beauty of the work done by most of the people who do this day in, day out. They're mostly people from the country itself. Often we in the West have the idea that the aid worker is the white gentleman or the white lady. That's not true. Most of the aid workers of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent are people from the country itself. That's the way it is with all the organizations. This is more efficient, more effective and cheaper. However, having said this: Haiti and all other similar situations are, of course, a very hard lesson. I am grateful for the very clear position of the Chamber at the time and now. You will find me by your side, on behalf of the cabinet. Here zero tolerance is always the guiding principle. But what is important, also on the basis of your questions, is, of course, the question: what is the government's approach in cooperation with the sector, but also making demands on the sector? Cooperation does not mean overlap. There is a clear division of roles, with demands and supervision that we as a government want to keep, with on the other hand the implementation obligation but also the supervision that must be set up and managed by the sector itself; I myself do not like the word'sector' very much; it is too generic. That is why it has been discussed together from the beginning, but it must also be done at a distance. We have a dual role to play, because we give money and expect it to be well managed in accordance with the objectives, both financially and morally, as well as in terms of implementation and results. It can therefore always be subject to inspection. You have the plan. It is indeed a very nice summary of seven to eight pages. There's a lot of policy behind that. There is framework legislation behind this, pages after pages of implementation expectations, which have been summarised for the reader, in order to provide a timely insight into the complexity of the case, the national approach by the government itself, and cooperation with the sector but also internationally. Because, as you understand, it's not something we can arrange only in the Binnenhof. Our work is elsewhere, as some of you have appointed. The executive power lies in cooperation with others, especially internationally. I would like to make two points. That has not been asked, but I think it is very important to mention it. The Netherlands has a leading role within the European Union. We ask a great deal of the Commission to be coherent and consistent. Because the big money from the Netherlands also goes through the European Union. We want the same standards and standards to apply everywhere. Secondly, the Netherlands has a leading role with the United Kingdom, Canada and now Finland in all areas, towards the World Bank and the other financial institutions, but also the UN. Because, as has been said, Oxfam has not only been affected by these kinds of scandals, but it is also happening in the UN framework, in peacekeeping operations. Unfortunately, in the wide range of partnerships, where supervision has apparently not been applied carefully, abuses can still occur. Our aim is, as you know, prevention, tightening up supervision, sanctioning and, of course, cultural change. Of course, we also have a BZ-internal action plan, because we are also looking at ourselves. I have therefore followed with interest the discussion between the House of Representatives on how the House of Representatives wants to formulate its own approach. Because it's society-wide, anywhere in the world. So the importance of these issues affects every society. But now we are talking about abuses in the aid sector. I'll name a few specific things. First of all, zero measurement. Mrs Diks and Mrs Becker have asked a number of questions about this. The CBF is in the process of identifying all recognised charities, based on the current state of play and on the expected integrity policy. We start with zero measurement, because that is, of course, the state of play. The results of this zero measurement will be available in the autumn. I'd like to come back to that at the time to Room. Of course, the CBF already exercises close supervision. They're also looking at the hotline. It is coordinated with Foreign Affairs to ensure that clear measures are taken. It is also subject to reporting requirements in the annual report of the CBF. But we'll come back to this as well. The Action Plan also provides for agreements on transparency in the annual reports of organisations. You are right to ask whether that is sufficient and fast enough. We can't foresee everything. Time must also be given, as with any organisation, if it is financial or otherwise, to tighten up policies and comply with the new subsidy frameworks, which are very tight and progressive. And then we need to assess organisations' compliance with and implementation of the requirements that have now been set. As you know, in the context of our cooperation with the DRA, the current funding frameworks of all organisations are being adapted on the basis of the new guidelines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u69	Do I hear the Minister say that organisations will have a kind of transitional period to get used to the strengthened policy? Is that what she just meant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u70	Yes and no. In any case, all new grant applications from now on, even while we were still formulating the new framework, have already been said: first we need to see what your integrity policy is, what your action is, what your prevention policy is, what the reporting obligation is, and so on. But there are over 1,000 contractual agreements; I don't remember how many there are right now. We have not all been able to revise them in the same short time, but we are, of course, talking to the sector. The NGOs have an action plan. Each application and report is now assessed according to the new framework. We cannot go back in time a few years and say: everything has changed; we are now going to re-evaluate you. This is virtually impossible to achieve legally and not feasible. That's what I wrote in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u71	Can the Minister give an indication of how long she thinks it's going to take until almost all the organizations are used to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u72	I have said that I share the urgency expressed by the Chamber like no other. That is why as a government, as a cabinet, we were very quick to say: this is the direction. This is not a question of patience, but of understanding the reality of the adjustment of implementation. I will come back to Mrs Kuik's question on cultural change. Not everything happens as quickly as you decide. You have to deal with implementation, complexity and various organisations that implement programs and projects in many countries. That's why things aren't right now, but the urgency is there. As far as most organizations are concerned, I expect that everything after the recess is articulated, implemented and adapted, especially if they are given their direction. I think everyone is well aware of the importance of this, including in the discussions with you in the Chamber. You will also have seen this in the letter you received from the implementing organisations about their part in the NGO Action Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u73	I would like to ask some more specific questions about the role of the CBF, the independent supervisor, in the new system. Does this mean that it will be a condition for funding from the Ministry that aid organisations have a recognition of the CBF?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u74	Yeah, or else you won't be recognized. If the label has been withdrawn, it won't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u75	Okay. That's good to hear. When I read the letter and when I hear the Minister like that, the CBF as an independent supervisor is going to play a solid role, perhaps even stronger than it is already playing. When will we be clear about this exact role? And does the Minister have the idea that the CBF is sufficiently equipped to fulfil that role in a serious way in every organisation, and in his annual report also give an assessment of the state of integrity policy of all these different organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u76	As a minister, of course, I am not also the regulator of the independent supervisor. He has a board of directors. It is, of course, also up to the Governing Board to look again at the task that the CBF is going to take on. Of course, there's some kind of temporary explosion of work, I think. That may be temporary, because setting up new channels and new forms of supervision simply takes more time. Especially that adjustment period is labour intensive, I think. It is up to the CBF to indicate whether it needs more capacity. But it is particularly up to the Board of Governors of the CBF.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u77	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u78	Then that's the CBF. Mrs Becker had already come back to her own question. What I am referring to here is: if you are in contact with members of the CBF Supervisory Board, I would particularly encourage them through that channel to look again critically at the capacity to effectively monitor effectively and in a timely manner. The issue of cultural change is a very important one. I am grateful to Mrs Kuik and others that this has been appointed. It's the most difficult of course. Culture can be communicated in several ways. On the one hand, there is leadership. We're in charge. That's what I give as a minister. This is also what we expect from representatives of Dutch organisations in the field and organisations that have their basis in the Netherlands. Culture change is also a question of policy dialogue. It's running with the sector now. It is also a question of systematic communication by the Chamber. But it is also reflected in the implementation of integrity policy. I don't think it's gonna happen overnight. We have to be very realistic about that. We have also seen this at, if I may call it, religious organisations or institutions. Despite all the political and social pressure, it does not happen overnight either. So we have to stay very sharp in it. That is also the important part of the #MeToo discussion, in the Netherlands or elsewhere. Culture is often elusive. We have to name it with examples and put an end to abuses. The Joint Integrity Action Plan is also a way. It is therefore along different paths that a cultural change has to be realized. There are training plans, too. Partos, the umbrella organisation, is also working on training. I remember Mrs Van Weerdenburg's remark: well, if you have to train people, what are we talking about? I can imagine, but realizing what's going on around you is very important to train. The recognition of possible abuse is also part of this. This often happens with the Dutch government, and this happens with international institutions. #MeToo is a classic example in that respect. This will also be re-appointed in the West. As I reported, we also have an awareness path in the Foreign Office. This is one of the government components in the Netherlands, I'm just saying to put it in context. There was a question about the humanitarian Ombudsman. There were two things: the humanitarian passport and the ombudsperson. I'm gonna let him get divorced. I'll come back at that first. We are now investigating the feasibility of an ombud person. I personally attach great importance to that. In crisis areas it is important that you have a hotline that can be active from afar. But more importantly, a person is in every crisis area or anywhere where large programs are being implemented, which is available to people. Indeed, many people have a huge fear and a fear of threshold. It's mostly local staff, local people. They think something like, "They'll never listen to me." I've seen it work at the UN. As soon as it is publicized, people can quickly find the computer or mobile phone to send out a message or a help signal. There will be a response to that. We are now doing a feasibility study. I would prefer to go international on this point. In September, we have a working meeting with the United Kingdom and other countries to see how we can do this together. This concerns the ombudsperson, but also the humanitarian passport, a subject that will still be examined by the DRA in terms of the Dutch dimension. But there's money to be put into this. We are examining the possibility, when the structure is ready, of raising as much as possible internationally with a number of donors, but also with organisations. You can think of co-financing by the organisations themselves. If we all consider it to be equally important, it must become, as far as I am concerned, a joint contribution. And then we look at whether such a position can be put on a trial basis in a number of countries, such as the Democratic Republic of Congo, where certain abuses have been taking place for years, or Haiti or many other countries. We'll see how it works and if it works. Confidentiality is very important. Accessibility remains very important. For the credibility of any action, especially for the victims, and from the point of view of prevention, effectiveness is, of course, the ultimate objective. If such an ombudsperson is to function better, it will also have a preventive effect. I am therefore happy to give this to you as a flag in the autumn to see if there is room for the Netherlands, which wants to play a progressive role in this, to co-finance this, together with countries that consider this to be equally important, in particular the United Kingdom. We will also participate in an international conference in that country on precisely this theme. Is it only NGOs or companies that are funded by us on a "not for profit" basis? No, it's the whole range. It applies to all places where government subsidies go. It's also business. For example, I have now sent a follow-up letter to Heineken to ask about their action plan. I recommend that this action plan, which has been proposed to prevent and tackle exploitation in the beer sector, be externally evaluated by the promotional girls. The programme proposed by companies must also comply with a certain standard. That's just as important. Equal monks, equal hoods in terms of the Dutch vision of this problem. What's the status? The Integrated Action Plan on Integrity has been requested. A number of time paths have been introduced. We have 18 actions, as Mrs Van Weerdenburg has already identified. There are a number of tractors. A project manager has also been appointed. You're not gonna be interested in that, but that's extremely important. This project manager should also keep an overview of inland and foreign countries and see how we can match with traces from other countries. I have just appointed the international alignment. Integral integrity policy has been realised at Partos and Goede Doelen Nederland. The learning process has started; I just mentioned it. The project on the strengthening of CBF standards is now underway. I also attach great importance, like Mrs Becker and others, to the fact that this will be completed quickly, because this will be very important. This is in the front. The quality mark is also very critical, as some of you have said. It can happen that an organization doesn't make it. The label is a hallmark of credibility and reliability. What's going on? Those are measures for victims. What is possible and desirable? That's the legal trail on the one hand. Questions were asked about persecution and police involvement, for example. I would like to say in advance that this is very important, but it depends on the case. It can't be done in all cases. It is also up to the organisation itself or the victim to go to the police in a national context. As many of you know, in many countries there is still the concept of honour killings. If, from a cultural point of view and from male abuse of power, the conclusion is drawn that, despite the fact that she was raped, a girl has thrown the honor of the family too gibberish, she is no longer the victim. Suddenly she gets mixed up with the unsub. We must therefore continue to deal with this very carefully. I'm gonna make a call here. The second thing we have always said in other AOs is that it depends on the state of legal proceedings. Of course, if the death penalty is an option within the national framework, we do not want to give a direct or indirect boost to its implementation, as a country that opposes the death penalty and wants to see the convention implemented, which should lead to the elimination of the death penalty in all countries. Joint guidelines for reporting are now being worked on. The Chamber can see all programmes that are funded and read all annual reports from organisations. Of course, this can also be done through the website on grant applications. There is a need for a very clear report: how many reports, what has been done with them, what has been the follow-up and what is the satisfaction factor? This is also important for Foreign Affairs, when we look at the financing of follow-up applications. How is the policy handled? That's just as important. This goes back to a point that some of you mentioned. It is about proportionality, good policy, good supervision, good implementation and looking at every case. Of course, it's very clear right away. If an organization reports two, three or four abuses, there is something that requires a much deeper analysis. This is different from the case where there is one case and there is another good policy, which makes it well picked up and tackled. We want to look much deeper, of course, and hear from the organisation what is going on. This actually has to do with the question about the spot checks, the periodic visits. What are we gonna do? I do not think it is feasible to carry out some sort of sampling visits here and there at some point. In other cases, reality has often shown that it is very easy to deceive people when it comes to this. We want to give this order to embassies. Work visits are, of course, taking place and there are other channels for monitoring. Evaluation visits are also often made from the government, i.e. from embassies or from The Hague. This point is systematically taken into account. That's less of a sample. Because if you're not known in the country, it's not a good way to fly by. Then you probably won't get much information. This needs to be dealt with much more systematically, much more thoroughly and subtlely. I can also invite Members of Parliament to check on their work visits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u79	I am, of course, totally in favour of a thorough approach, an approach that works. I have made a proposal to make practical visits, because we want to prevent it from working properly on paper, but not in practice. The problem with, for example, a working visit that we, as a committee of inquiry, are that this has been announced. Then you can have the place in order. Does the Minister agree with me that if an organisation knows that there can also be an unannounced inspection visit, of course by people who do this thoroughly and knowingly; I share that that can contribute to the preventive functioning of supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u80	Possibly, but frankly, at this point in time, I think we need to invest much more in the humanitarian passport. I shall come back to that in a moment, the ombudsperson, in structural consultation with everyone, and the hotline that will become operational on 1 September. We need to tackle the whole range. Then we can see how an inspection visit can take place. It depends on how you do it with the embassy and the other channels. I think that's gonna be a possible result. But I wouldn't want to start with that, because frankly, I think we'll be coming up with some sort of false diagnosis, medically speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u81	I am not asking the Minister to make a very detailed proposal now on how this should be done. Can I hear the minister say she's not throwing away the idea right now? Does she agree with me that at least it is worth investigating or considering whether this could be given a place in the palette of measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u82	Yes, unless they go against the Constitution, fundamental human rights and standards and values, I throw away very few ideas. This is an interesting idea. We can always come back to this. But first of all, I really want to channel the energy on the actual effect that I believe will provide the highest form of prevention in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u84	Let's see. The humanitarian passport. I thought I'd already said something about that. We're working on this right now. There was a question about this from both Mrs Kuik and Mrs Diks. So we'll see what that means. We're exploring how to handle personal information and how to exchange it. Because we are also dealing with legislation and privacy. Of course, privacy can never be an excuse for the unsub to continue his or her exploitation and abuse elsewhere. So it is complex, but everyone understands and supports the importance very much. Because Haiti, I think I remember, has shown that one or two of the perpetrators were actually familiar with previous stories. However, by changing employers and countries, this information has apparently been lost or at least not published. So we want to coordinate this internationally. Eventually, there's got to be one database somewhere. That's not as hard as it looks. A lot of people work internationally. Of course, we don't only have the Dutch branch. The design of such a data base is very important. In the end, we must also assume that hopefully only a very small number of the large numbers of people doing this work will end up in such a database. But this is gonna take a while. This is very important. I'd like to come back to what the effect is going to be. The technology will certainly help us. Then there is the annual report, the reporting obligation and also the correlation with the interdepartmental reporting obligation. We need to stimulate this. It was also asked whether we want to take a leading role in this. In any case, there is a reporting obligation and a monitoring obligation for all grant recipients. I'd like to go to the Council of Ministers and find a way to coordinate with all the other ministries. I'll also see how we can get on with this. As I said earlier, I am, of course, looking forward to the role that the House of Representatives itself wants to play in this context in the discussions with other ministries. That could be a useful interaction. I fully agree with Mrs van den Hul's views on the role of men, gender equality or inequality, and also on the importance of a female leading role and role model role that women and girls can and should play. I do not want to anticipate the discussion of the Foreign Trade and OS note. A very large part of this is about promotional support, also by subsidising the political financial and social role that women can and should play. I'd like to get back to you. I do not know if I can specifically promote women in top sectors through BHOS, but wherever I see an opportunity to contribute to that, I will gladly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u85	We are looking forward, as much as the Minister, to discussing the note. In anticipation of that, we welcome the great attention that is in there for gender. What I was just referring to during the debate was whether conditions such as sustainable enterprise, social entrepreneurship or an equal distribution of positions within an organisation could perhaps be part of a subsidy framework or a balancing framework in it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u86	To be honest, I cannot go back on that at this time. It might belong in the context of spot checks. I'll come back to it at another time. I don't think it can be ruled out, certainly not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u89	Within the same framework, the very important question was asked as to whether there could be financial or other consequences should there be repeated reports of cross-border behaviour. It is still important that every report is properly examined. I reported earlier... Or: I have said before, I am in the reporting pattern now that the organisation's behavior is also being addressed, how it implements the demands package we have agreed and how compliance is being given. We do not believe in collective punishment; what we do expect is accountability, reckoning and policy and clarity about it. I said earlier that if there are a number of reports and we find that they are systematic, there is obviously a business culture in which the demands we have made are not met. Then there's a serious problem. This could also have financial consequences, among other things. This goes with the score cards we have for every organization. So here I expect at some point, hopefully faster than we can imagine, a cultural change when it comes to the extent to which we expect and demand that these kinds of issues are taken seriously. This must become a central policy. This is not something we do on a Saturday afternoon. This must become a core of good policy for each organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u90	I see Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u91	I was getting up a little bit from my chair, yeah. For us, it is important that the Minister should also take with him that repeated reporting and not good behaviour of the organisation has not only financial consequences, but that it continues to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u92	Can you give me an example of how we can proceed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u93	Probably hitting legal-criminal ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u94	Yeah, that's the problem. In the end, our resources remain very limited. It depends. For example, a point such as victim support, a point I have not yet mentioned; I believe that it is in the letter that it also requires funding. There is now a victim's lawyer at the UN, internationally accessible to all of us. There is an international assessment of whether funding should not be provided to enable victims individually to prosecute their (suspected) perpetrators legally. That's one approach route. The second is the framework legislation. It is not the case that we can now criminalise organisations for partial implementation of policies. What we can do immediately, though, is just as painful as it is to finance. There is immediate reputational damage for an organization.............................................................................................................................................................. That, I think, has a greater preventive effect. I have to have another look at other forms of legal implementation by our legal service. I totally understand. I know that financial measures actually make it a little cheap. That doesn't feel right. I totally agree with that, but I don't want to promise things that may never be possible. I'll get another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u95	I am now hearing some other ideas from the Minister in case financial recovery is not possible. I would like to add something to that. To whether it makes me feel good, I don't usually have a message like that. It's about the good or bad feeling that Oxfam Novib's donors now have. A lot of people have already quit, because of course they feel betrayed. Is the Minister prepared, for example in the case of Oxfam Novib, to allow the tax authorities to withdraw anbi status?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u96	I have to come back to this in the second term, but just for the sake of clarity: my first feeling goes out to the victims, as many Members of Parliament have pointed out, and of course also to clarity, clarity and expectations of the Dutch taxpayer's policy. I have a policy on that, but I'm not doing this in the public gallery. I'm clear about that. The first is the people we need to protect and who have the right to protection. There must be consequences and/or persecution for the perpetrators. This is central, and I think it is also important for most viewers or taxpayers. They expect something else for their money. I couldn't agree more. I don't know if I can change the anbi-law at all. I'm gonna have to get some advice on that. First of all, I would like to say that we have now adjusted the frameworks very tightly and we are leading internationally. I would like to invite you to examine as well what actions other countries have taken: internationally, this is normal. That's important. Secondly, we must not lose it. If we look at the number of programmes and the cases we are looking at, we can tackle a lot. If we're just gonna look at sanctions, I'm afraid we might be shooting through. But I never rule anything out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u97	Of course, the victims come first. I'll share that with the Minister. I just want to avoid the feeling and reputation of the Farah Karamis being placed second in this world, because then I prefer to choose the donors and the people who have given their hard-earned money to a charity when it seems to have been used for very different purposes. So I ask the Minister to think a little bit more with the people at home. She has said earlier that she also considers the support for government subsidies important. Perhaps something is not legally possible, but you could of course have picked up the phone. Perhaps you have already done so, and Mrs Karimi could have moved to get her own hands on her. Did you maybe do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u98	Mrs Karimi is not taking part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u99	Madam President, I am very far from making any personal accusations against the Director of Oxfam Novib. Most MPs do this, too. I don't want anything to do with that. I'll leave it to you. It's your words. I spoke to Mrs Karimi. She sent a letter. She's come here to answer for it. Furthermore, I am far from any language that suggests anything else. I have, of course, spoken to Mrs Karimi on several occasions. There is also a very clear letter to Oxfam Novib. Mrs Karimi has also sent you a letter on behalf of Oxfam Novib. I am not here as Mrs Karimi's attorney, but we can hope that no one will be put down in such a public debate without being present to defend themselves. The letter about Oxfam Novib, the timeline and the answer have been clear. I do not see it as an effective measure in the broad context that I have actively put forward without any parliamentary question... I think it is important, on behalf of the cabinet, that we should be able to talk about the content. We owe this to the taxpayer and the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u100	Mr President, concluding. Mrs Karimi has been here and has had every opportunity to defend herself and give an answer. She didn't. She didn't have a single answer. This is exactly what the PVV means. You get angry and stand up for Mrs Karimi and all the directors of NGOs more than the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u101	Mrs. Van Weerdenburg, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u102	No, I'm not. Your accusation is not against the taxpayer...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u103	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u104	I distance myself from these allegations. You've spoken of "her accomplices." As far as I am concerned, this cannot be done in the Lower House in 2018. As a ruler, I resent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u105	It has been a number of times that people have been mentioned in the debate by name and by name. I say every time about people who do not participate in the debate that they cannot defend themselves. That certainly applies to the Director of Oxfam. She's out, and she can't defend herself. I am therefore trying to focus the debate on the content and to keep those who do not participate out of the discussion. Mrs. Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u106	Yes, sorry, point of order, Mr. Chairman. I understand that, and I'd rather not do it, but then we can't talk about the case it all started with here, can we? Mrs. Karimi has been here. She has thrown everything into the air by means of open letters on her website and in the media. Then I'm not allowed to mention her name here and address her? Surely I have the right to judge what she has done, and above all what she has not done? That's what this is all about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u107	It is indeed about the Oxfam Novib organisation. It's always about the function, but not about the person. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u108	That is why I said that all the points about Oxfam Novib have been mentioned several times in the previous letters and in AO's. Mr. Bouali, as far as I'm concerned, it's women's day every day of the year, but to the specific day you mention, we will pay special attention to sexual abuse. I also hope that these MPs will do this. As from 25 January, of course, the ten days of international action on violence against women will also be. Violence is, of course, verbal violence, not just physical. It's also harassment on Twitter and through other channels. So we can learn from that as well. We have dealt with the adaptation of the framework law on subsidies, I think. One more thing about that, including for Mrs Becker and others. A proposal to amend the framework law on grants lies with the Council of State. It is true that in due course we will be able to include other points that have been mentioned or questions, even in the case of new legal opinions. Can we do more, except financially, as Mrs Van Weerdenburg appointed? It is robust and preventive, but it is also feasible and feasible. I'd like to get back to this, but I can't anticipate what the Council of State is going to come up with right now. I think I have answered most of the questions. A very large number of questions have been raised on a number of issues relating to Oxfam Novib which, apart from the discussion I had just had with Mrs Van Weerdenburg, I think have already been mentioned in detail in the various exchanges of letters. I don't know if it's useful that we relive that. I very much wanted to put the new framework in place here, without going back to everything that is in great detail in the various exchanges of letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u109	I asked another question about the following. If cross-border behavior is shown, and there is evidence, and if the aid organisations do not report it to the Ministry, are you prepared to stop the subsidy relationship? That was a specific question from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u110	Like I said, you keep looking from case to case. First of all, we're looking for reports. So it depends on how it was reported. If I understand your question correctly, you are concerned with the case that no policy is being made or that no follow-up is being given by the executive organisation, the subsidised organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u111	My question is specific: if a subsidised organisation knowingly does not mention abuses to the Ministry, cross-border behaviour, as has been shown in recent times, then you are prepared to stop the subsidy relationship, because that organisation is trying to cover something up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u112	Yeah, I've been answering that for the last hour, I guess. There's a new policy, and there's a reporting obligation. If the reporting obligation is not met according to policy and we find out...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u113	Don't repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u114	I'm not gonna do that; I'm gonna try to explain it again in one second, or rather name it. In that case, there is a procedure to be followed. If necessary, funding may be discontinued.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u115	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u116	In your policy, the word "may" is very common. I said in my speech that we must now go to the word'must'. Are you prepared to put it a little more clearly instead of "can"? Now it's a little noncommittal: "it's possible," "we could." Are you prepared to make that a little more precise, so I don't have to make a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u117	The policy framework is very strong. The letter doesn't describe all cases. "Can' is theoretical; the framework is "to be met'. The assessment is based on the framework. Then there is a question of "must." But in a generic sense, I cannot systematically say "must." It may be one notification or it may be a systematic omission. And the burden of proof has to be provided. There are also cases of false allegations. Based on that, you can't cut an organization short right away. So it's also about due process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u118	The Minister's just saying something different than before. I have heard her a great many times about "repeated abuses" that would be necessary to come up with measures such as stopping or recovering the subsidy. I thought right then: how much then or how often? Now I understand that it can happen in one miscarriage. But how is it explained to the people at home that we now conclude that for Oxfam Novib the last affair had no consequence? Can I just quote the Minister's words in the AA we had about this? "In the end, it is about compliance. It needs to be weighed and measured. Consequentially, that's not much use to us."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u119	Yes, it is. Compliance, weighted and included... "Weighed and weighed" you said? What exactly did you say I said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u120	Weighed and measured.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u121	Measured: indeed. In the weighing and measurement lies a case, lies a seriousness. If we now have a framework and the new framework law, you are talking about a large policy. If an organisation then fails to implement the policies it itself sets out, that is a weighting. Because, of course, it is also about cases; we are not going to punish an organisation collectively for "a" miscarriage. For example, if a good policy has been put in place by an organisation and one employee makes a mistake, as can happen in the Netherlands, then we do not immediately close the subsidy crane. It depends on the situation. But it will be carefully looked at and impacted, depending on the situation. I cannot speculate about this in theory; we are now going to implement the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u122	Finally, Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u123	Finally. That measures depend on the seriousness of the omission has already been said by the Minister in her letter and I understand that. But how serious the omission was is therefore an interpretation. We will always disagree about that in this Chamber. How is the Minister going to ensure that there is some sort of line in the ministry, so that who decides doesn't depend on who will face it? It sounds too vague, and that gives me anxiety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u124	That's what you have to worry about. There will be a detailed instruction followed internally. There are also, of course, standards within the government. We'll set the bar high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u125	The Minister's letter says she'll be back before the end of the year. Could we do that earlier, for example, with the Navy Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u126	The Autumn note is, of course, a financial picture. I believe that many of the measures now cover a much wider area. We have just been asked about legal measures, other insights. It could be sooner, but I don't know if this is a budgetary conversation. There are a lot of panels to this story and I want to do it carefully. I can give you an interim report, which I think is useful for all of us, to tell you how far we have come. That also keeps a little pressure on the kettle. I think that's useful myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u127	Thank you. Then we're gonna... I see you at the interrupting microphone, but there is also a second term, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u128	Yes, but I would like to give it a try, because I have asked a question about the remuneration policy that I do not think I have yet received an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u129	Oh, yeah, the pay policy. I just need to make sure we don't talk about different things. I think that from the questions that have been put in writing before, it is clear that it is not about bonuses. But you did come back to that, didn't you? As far as Dutch NGOs are concerned, you know that there is a legal framework and a standard. The financial structure of many organisations, local NGOs, is very dependent on the work they do. There, of course, is also looked at the proportionality of the salary of the local director and the staff. However, you can see that the salaries of the local staff of the World Bank, the UN and major international NGOs are best strong to remain competitive. That's one thing. We don't have much control over that. We ourselves see in our agreements whether it is proportionate to the tasks that are carried out. And then you have the last frame: the only thing you pay at some organizations is the expertise of the person they hire. These are not the wells, but the brain capacity of man.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u130	I'm not suggesting we change anything about that remuneration policy either. We already standardize that through the WNT in a good way. All I ask is what we do when there are abuses that an organisation does not act on in a good way, while the same driver earns considerable money at the same time and maybe gets a bonus. Don't we have a title to get involved? Would the Minister consider whether, in addition to the subsidy framework, we could also present the remuneration policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u131	I can promise to investigate internationally, perhaps in the context of the conference with the British, how we could give even more direction to that. I don't think it's gonna do much good if we do it purely at national level. To be honest, I do not know whether we have, or are able to, any legal influence on that. Investigations: yes. But I promise no result, like: now it's changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u132	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. Is everyone in the house? Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for her hard work to combat abuses in the aid sector and to tackle the organisations firmly. We are curious about the role of the CBF. Would the Minister be able to send a letter on that soon? In any case, that role will not be reduced, and we would like the CBF to be well equipped. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to strengthen the role of the Central Fundraising Office (CCF) in the framework of measures to combat sexual cross-border behaviour in aid and development organisations;]] [[noting that the CBF, as a supervisory body, also intends to actively contribute to the prevention and handling of abuses as far as possible;]] [[Whereas it is essential for the CBF to be able to carry out the tasks properly;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the independent supervisor is adequately equipped to assess and report annually on the integrity policies and actions of aid organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u134	Then I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to avoid future abuses of aid and development organisations by means of new agreements and tightening up of the subsidy frameworks;]] [[noting that various aid and development organisations have now presented various plans of action to prevent abuses;]] [[whereas these plans deserve support from both the government and the sector;]] [[Whereas, at the same time, measures relating to prevention and monitoring in paper should not be in order, but the practice is more rigid;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in the Action Plan how sample monitoring, for example in the form of unannounced inspections, can contribute to identifying and preventing abuses and inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u135	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for the sharp response. I'm glad she's on top of it. I also welcome the commitment that repeated reports of cross-border behaviour will not only look at the financial consequences, but will also examine what else can be done. So thank you for that commitment. As I said, our aim must be to protect all mothers, daughters, brothers, sisters, nieces and nephews from sexual exploitation. To achieve that, we need to change culture. There are now nice plans and a clear appeal to the sector, but how are we going to make sure that this is actually going to happen? It's also global acting to eliminate abuse of dependent relationships. It is good that the Minister puts this at European and international level. We believe it is important, also in order to have clear benchmarks, that we, as a Chamber and the Minister, should determine what progress is going to be made. We also welcome the interim report. Finally, Mr President. We just heard the discussion in the first term. I should like to close by saying that we are definitely dealing with this in the Chamber. I am glad that we can continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u136	Thank you. Mr Bouali on behalf of D66. Mr Bouali! He's physically there. And mentally, too. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u137	Thank you, Madam President. I want to thank the Minister. Appreciate her very proactive attitude and her strong actions towards these abuses. I think that's very important. It is good that we are working on a holistic approach and that you have promised the Chamber that you will inform us about it. Again, it is also very important that we give these organisations the opportunity to continue this important work internationally and that we do not throw up all kinds of obstacles that prevent them from doing their job. The most important thing is to equip these organisations for the humanitarian needs that are present worldwide, to do the work and to help the people internationally. Thank you very much to the Minister for her good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u138	Thank you, Mr. Bouali. Mrs Diks now has the floor, but she will not do so. Then I will go to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The spirit is out of the bottle and it doesn't go back that easily. This is true in the discussion we have had here this evening about abuses in the aid sector. This also applies in a broader sense within the discussion that has erupted worldwide on the occasion of #MeToo. Mr. Chairman. As I said during the debate, we believe that power should be distributed more fairly. We welcome this Minister's commitment to this dossier and look forward to her discussion of her memo, in which, fortunately, gender equality plays a major role, as I said earlier. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inequality of power between women and men, also known as the patriarchy, sexual harassment and violence against women, encourages organisations and companies;]] [[Whereas better representation of women at the summit within organisations and companies contributes to breaking this imbalance of power;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for its funding and funding frameworks to use its influence to increase the number of women in top positions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think we've made much progress tonight. It remains with many words and no deeds. I really think that's a missed opportunity. On behalf of the PVV, I would like to make another attempt to persuade the Minister to take action. Hence the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Oxfam Novib's management was already aware in 2012 of the abuse scandal in which Oxfam employees in Haiti organised sex parties with vulnerable girls, but did not disclose that knowledge;]] [[Whereas the management of Oxfam Novib has deliberately taken the risk that perpetrators could go elsewhere in the aid industry and cause more casualties;]] [[Whereas the management of Oxfam Novib, in view of the recent cancellations, has in recent years received money from donors who would have spent their money elsewhere if they had been aware of the abuses in Haiti and thus have been misled by the management of Oxfam Novib;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Tax Administration to withdraw the anbi-status of Oxfam Novib,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Oxfam Novib's management already in 2012 of the abuse scandal in Haiti, which did not disclose knowledge and therefore deliberately took the risk that perpetrators could go elsewhere in the aid industry and cause more casualties;]] [[Whereas the management of Oxfam Novib itself had no consequence whatsoever in its negligent conduct in this affair;]] [[Calls on the Government to stop subsidising Oxfam Novib and the Court in the very short term to inform about the possibility of recovering the public funds already provided over the period 2012 to date,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weerdenburg and Mr Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-66]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Weerdenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u141	I shall resume the meeting and give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks to the MPs, too. Mrs. Becker's first motion. The CBF is an independent supervisor, as Mrs Becker knows. In itself, I have no influence on that. It is a self-regulatory sector in this respect. I would like to consult with the CBF on how this tightening up is taking place. It's just an operational problem. The last paragraph states "calls on the government to guarantee'. That's tricky, considering the CBF is independent. "Enough is equipped" is a choice for the CBF. Perhaps Mrs Becker can formulate the motion in a different way, so that it is an appeal to the CBF, that it is expected that it will be adequately equipped to carry out its task properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u143	As I put it, does the government ask to talk to the independent supervisor about sufficient equipment to be able to assess and report annually on integrity policies and actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u144	That's fine. I will anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u145	Then I will change the motion in such a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u146	Mrs. Becker is changing her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u147	Thank you very much. Then there is Mrs Becker's second motion. 64. I would like to ask in the context of our discussion, and because this is an important part but a part of the broader picture and our elaboration, whether this motion can be retained in order to give a little time to put the action plan in place. The Ombudsman, the humanitarian passport, embassies and so on, and then to make international agreements with partners on how effective sampling policies, so to speak, can lead to better supervision. Right now it's too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u148	I'm willing to do that. I think it is worth not firing this idea now, but thinking about using it later, because I think it can be very useful to do these studies in practice as well. So I'll come back to that later and hold the motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u150	At the request of Mrs Becker, I propose her motion (34775-XVII, No. 64). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u151	Before you walk back, Mrs. Becker, you had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u152	Sorry for the confusion, Mr. Chairman. I walked pretty fast to the microphone when the Minister suggested to hold the motion. I wanted to respond to that. I had no further question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u153	Okay. Well, I thought you had another question about an investigation, but that has nothing to do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u154	We agreed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u155	No, about the motion, but I thought Mrs. Becker had another question. But I'm not getting involved anymore; it's gonna go all wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u156	It will be my inexperience. I've just been in the Chamber for a year, but I asked the President what is really going on with plenary commitments, whether they are registered or not. Because the Minister had indicated that she wanted to see if she could investigate remuneration policy internationally. She promised. If the Minister could indicate when she could inform the Chamber, my question would be, thanks to the President for this suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u157	I didn't think so. Anyway, that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Also sorry on my part; we had an understanding too quickly. If I count with retroactive effect, I do not think there is any real clarity until the time of the international conference in which we are also with the British. That's November. There will then be a great deal of work to be done or implemented in practice. Before then, I don't want to say that's what's gonna happen. As far as I am concerned, the samples are a final phase of a broader framework. November is a good time so we can get other partners to talk about how and what about the passport and the ombud person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u159	And then the Chamber will be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u160	Then the Chamber will be informed, but by then there will be an interim report. Then we can take that too. I would like to ask whether Mrs Van den Hul can continue her very sympathetic motion until we have had a debate on the BuHa-OS note. Otherwise, I'd anticipate a broader conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u161	Sure. Sustained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u162	At the request of Mrs Van den Hul, I propose her motion (34775-XVII, No. 65). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u163	Then I have the Van Weerdenburg motion in part No. 66. I do not want to go back to all the questions that have been asked about the role of Oxfam Britain and Oxfam Novib. The proportionality we have discussed is very important. That's why I don't recommend this motion. The same applies to the Van Weerdenburg motion on item No. 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u165	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
