ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u1	And now for something completely different. The next item is the proposal from the working method committee to amend the Rules of Procedure to include a mandate for committee chairmen. I would, of course, like to welcome Members, but in particular our esteemed President, Mrs Arib, who, on behalf of the working method committee, has taken part in trade union K. We have six speakers from the Chamber, who generally speak for one or two minutes. But Mr Öztürk is the first speaker and he has ten minutes. We're gonna have a good time. I call Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. DENK stands for honesty. DENK stands for justice. DENK stands for fighting the double size. The House of Representatives is an example for society as a whole, so the way we deal with each other here is radiating on our entire society. Is it always fair and just here in Parliament? Or is there also a double size in the House of Representatives? We get that impression sometimes. I've been in parliament for over five years. On a regular basis, we feel that some Presidents treat some political groups and Members of Parliament differently. They get cut off more often. They get less time and space than others. The Presidents' tone is more irritated and sometimes even arrogant. However, as a Member of Parliament, you are powerless against a chairman. They're just turning off your microphone. And when you talk to them afterwards, they're not open to criticism. Presidents are aware of no evil. Do they have a blind spot? Perhaps unconscious prejudices and antipathies play a role after all? Is it perhaps just like the ethnic profile of the police, as is discrimination in the labour market and as is parental advice in schools? These things are always hard to harden. See if you can prove it. That is why I made a proposal, the proposal of a Parliamentary Video Divorce Judge. A parliamentary VAR: video assistant referee. This isn't a political joke. This is a serious proposal. The interests of the football field are great, but the interests of the parliament are much greater. This is about our citizens. It is essential for all voters here to be represented fairly and fairly. If the chairman appears to be making a mistake, the video divider can examine it objectively later. If there were unconscious prejudices, this could be objectively demonstrated by footage. By the way, I am not just talking about DENK here. In fact, I have the idea that the Forum for Democracy is not always treated properly. Those are certainly not our political friends, of course, but everyone in Parliament must be treated equally. It should not be the case that the establishment is treated differently from the rebellious newcomers. Who could be the video divider in parliament? DENK is thinking of a civilian panel. After all, as a parliament we are in the service of the people, so it is logical that the citizens are above us as a referee in order to express their views on the issues we are putting before them. Mr. Chairman. DENK is concerned about Dutch democracy. We are afraid that the major parties are going to make it increasingly difficult for small parties and that they are going to restrict the rights of parliamentary minorities by the democratic majority. We saw this, for example, in the split-off groups. When a Member of Parliament leaves his group, he gets less speaking time and much less money for policy support. For example, you can see the repeal of the referendum law. In doing so, the government is taking citizens away from an important democratic instrument. DENK is also concerned about the committee that is going to advise on an amendment to the parliamentary system. Aren't party interests just gonna be the deciding factor there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u3	I would like to point out that today we are discussing the mandate of the chairman of the committee. I haven't heard from you about that. You've been knocked down a few side paths, but I'd like to point out that you're going out of the subject. There is also a question for you from Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u4	Is the representative of DENK aware that this debate and all other debates are being included here? The representative of DENK advocates camera surveillance that is controlled by citizens. To what extent does camera surveillance by citizens differ from the current practice, in which all debates, all AO's and everything that happens here are already recorded? Citizens can already watch. Then where's the difference? Then where is your innovative idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u5	That's a very good question. I did not expect that from Mr Markuszower. The point is that we have a civil panel that deliberately looks at certain debates in their entirety. Not every citizen has time to watch a debate for three or four hours. When you have a civil panel that looks specifically at the role of the chairman or the chairman of the committee and gives an opinion on it, that can help to get the chairman and the chairman of the committee in a different way next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u6	How does that work? For example, do we have 100 randomly elected citizens looking at this debate? Will the President then be told afterwards: you did this and did not do it right? Or is it like football, that something is looked back and that it is said: this was not outside play on second thought? How does Mr Öztürk see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u7	That last one. Afterwards, the civil panel may give an opinion to the relevant committee chairman or to the President of the Chamber. The President of the Chamber can then look back at the images and, where necessary, talk to the civil panel and try to explain how it works. That gives the President of the Chamber fair feedback from our citizens, not from the local establishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u8	In sport it is easier to tell whether a ball is inside or outside the line. This is about politics. By definition, there is a certain degree of subjectivity in this. How can we be sure this is always objective? Wouldn't it make much more sense for us to give the President the confidence in advance and assume that? If we think something's not happening right, we can have an open conversation, like we're doing right now. For example, I have seen in the VWS committee that people can give open input once a year about how they feel about it. The chairman also explicitly asked: how do you think I'm doing? That would be much better, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u9	We've tried that lately, but it's not working. We note that the Presidents here are serving the established order and the major parties a little bit. On the contrary, it is important for an independent civil panel to give feedback so that the President feels that it is not the Chamber with a political colour that is steering in a particular direction, but that it is the citizens for whom we are sitting, who are objectively and honestly telling us how to do it. We can show pictures of them. I have also offered them to the President of the Chamber, but she refused them, which shows that we are cut off in the rules of work within fifteen, twenty seconds. While others, especially Geert Wilders, keep their story here for a minute. We can objectively, at the second, show how the President of the Chamber and the chairmen of the committees sometimes push away small parties and take the floor. We can show you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u10	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u11	Yes. Mr. Chairman. The major parties choose a system in which the small parties have the greatest difficulty. The process would be 100% democratic, because the majority decides. But it is not in the spirit of democracy to make newcomers even more difficult. In an ideal democracy, the majority should guard the position of minorities. On the contrary, the major parties should be pleased with the small parties. In a democracy, the voices of as many people as possible, citizens, must be heard. That is an enrichment for democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u12	It's very interesting. Mr Öztürk therefore calls for a civil panel of about 100 citizens. He also says that he stands up for democracy and that as many citizens as possible must be heard. At present, this debate is followed by everyone who wants it, all the citizens of the Netherlands. Now Mr Öztürk says: no, we do not want all citizens to watch, but we want 100 citizens to be selected. Maybe with a DENK method. So you are actually saying that we are going to reduce democracy to a selection of people approved by DENK. What a funny variant of democracy. Mr Öztürk, what democracy are you talking about? We're here in Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u13	What a simple approach by the VVD. I told you every citizen can watch this. Every citizen may be critical, please, but apart from that, we are giving a citizen panel of 100, maybe 200 or 1,000 people the opportunity to look extra alertly, sharply and form a judgment. If the VVD doesn't want to listen to that and find something to blacken our story, I think it's very weak. During VVD training on how to debate, they may not have trained you to debate with DENK. I suggest we add a training course next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u14	That's a deal. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. In addition to the proposal for a Parliamentary Video Divorce, we have made a number of other proposals. DENK wants committee chairmen to apply for their position, as does the President of the Chamber. DENK wants the committee chairmen to be evaluated every year, as is the case with the annual plans of the committees. In this way we keep the committee chairmen a little sharp. As far as DENK is concerned, we can also do this with the President of the Chamber, which is to evaluate the President of the Chamber every year and see if she is doing a good job. Don't ordinary people have a job interview every year, too? Such an annual discussion is also good for the President-in-Office of the Council, because then she does not have to hear it in the media as group chairmen have complained about it, but she hears it directly, openly and transparently. Then she will just hear straight away from the group chairmen what they think of her. Can the President-in-Office state whether she is prepared to undergo such an annual evaluation? Mr President, I will conclude. How do you measure the power of a country? The strength of a country is not how much money it has. The strength of a country is how the majority treats the minority. Gandhi also said this: the civilisation of a society can be measured by the way in which we deal with the weak, with the minorities, with those who think differently. Democracy is not the majority plus one. Democracy means that the voice of the people is heard in the parliament, that the voice of the people is not hindered because the President shuts off the microphone. The free speech must not be pushed away by the President. Finally, Mr President. I am very pleased that the President-in-Office is now in the government's business. It's nice that you're sitting there, President of the Chamber. Now you can't turn off my microphone. Now I can say the free word and I can fully represent the people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u16	I can turn you off, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u17	You can, but you're not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u18	You don't know me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u19	Now I can say what I think. I wonder what you have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u20	What the President has to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u21	Dare to be honest and just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you. A short question from Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr Öztürk began his speech by saying that the manners here radiate to the whole country. He has also argued that we must abide by the rules and that they must be the same for everyone. In April last year I gave my maiden speech here. We have the rule that you don't interrupt maiden speechers. I was not yet at my second sentence or Mr Öztürk, in accordance with his reputation, shouted through it. I understand now that he's asking for more discipline. I ask Mr Öztürk: can you just hold back a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u24	There's no rule that you don't interrupt a maiden speech. That doesn't say anything. That's an unwritten rule, and I followed it. I am in favour of the English parliamentary system, in the sense that there is more resurrection, that there is noise, that society is heard here. It's a boring thing now. I know that at the VVD only the chairman can talk and that the rest of Netflix is watching for the votes. We have read the book of the one who wrote it; let me not mention the name. The point is that there is more resurrection, that the people are heard here, that democracy is working completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u25	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u26	That includes sound. Sound's good. I understand that you want to cover up all these noises, that you only want to be the largest group in this House, but as long as the voter chooses us, we will be making the noise of the citizen heard here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you. Are we all gonna be in a little DENK movie later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u28	I think I'm gonna cut out the piece of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u29	Hey, I'm sorry about that now. Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Koopmans of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the committee for making this proposal, which goes without saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u31	Well, you had some speaking time left. Mr Koopmans, there is another interruption for you from Mr Öztürk. He wasn't there for a while. He's getting a booth from the video referee for this, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u32	This is now established order behavior. In the back rooms everything is already arranged and in parliament you say as little as possible and submit as little motions as possible. And then try to make fun of the newcomer, which, by the way, has not succeeded. Why don't you tell the people who are listening to you now how the VVD is in this and what ideas the VVD has on this, the VVD that emerged during the elections and should keep the story here? Why don't you? Why do you choose to be in the back rooms everything...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u33	By "you," you probably mean Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u34	Oh, yeah. Why does Mr. Koopmans choose to decide everything in the back rooms and stay silent here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u35	It is very nice that Mr Öztürk describes himself as a newcomer, because I think he has been here for a number of years, first on behalf of the PvdA, before he has defected. It is also very funny that he blames me for taking care of something in a back room, while this proposal comes from a committee that is carried Chamberwide. This proposal contains very limited additions to the Rules of Procedure, additions to which I have not heard you speak at all, Mr Öztürk. It is quite simple: the chairman is supposed to represent the committee. The chairman shall represent the committee abroad. They are very simple proposals on which everyone has been able to speak. Mr Öztürk can now make his contribution. He does. He talks about very different things. I don't know what he's gonna come up with today if he says I'm in a back room making arrangements. He's making up stuff he's bringing here that doesn't matter at all. And now he blames me. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u36	Short and pointy and then we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u37	You just see that the VVD as an established order has nothing to do with it, not even in this debate. I don't think we should waste our time. Let's just continue with the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u38	I don't think I want to waste my time answering a question that has no substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u39	Then we will listen to Mrs Voortman from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u40	Thank you, Mr President. The Working Method Committee has publicly proposed that the terms of reference of committee chairmen be included in the Rules of Procedure. We, the Green Left, are in favour of this because it clarifies the tasks of a committee chairman. I would like to say that I myself have been a member of a small group for five years. I never had the idea that it would cut me off more than I am now in a slightly larger fraction. I think it would be a good thing if groups who do call for this were to ask themselves whether it is also a matter of their own behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u41	One more question from Mr Öztürk. He's excited today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u42	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This is the moment, the arena, the debate. This is what the citizen is asking for. That's why we're here. Mr. Chairman. Discrimination on the labour market has been denied for years. Discrimination on the entrepreneurial market is now denied. Ethnic profiling has also been denied for years. Policemen said, "No, I'm not in on it." The same applies here in the Chamber, the Parliament. Open your eyes, I would say to the GroenLinks spokesperson, and see that not everyone in this Chamber is treated equally at the moment. Just look at that. I can show you some footage. Look at that footage and try not to go with the establishment now, but also try...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u43	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u44	... looking at it creatively and transparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr. Chairman. If there is one group that has fought to combat discrimination in the labour market, to combat ethnic profiling, then it is GroenLinks. GroenLinks did that even before DENK even existed. So I don't know where this criticism came from. When it comes to the President's actions, there are several possibilities for us to express whether or not we believe that something is right. I have already mentioned the example of the chairman of the committee. At the time of the evaluation of what is going on in committee, we can therefore discuss: how do we feel about it? That's how it should be as far as I'm concerned. I don't think that's gonna add anything from a video talk like that. Let us do this openly and with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr Öztürk, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr. Chairman. Too bad GroenLinks does not choose that a civil panel of independent people, the people we are sitting here for, can make a comment about the functioning of the President of the Chamber. That is also the President of the Chamber of Citizens. Why are you afraid of such a...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u48	Why is Mrs. Voortman afraid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u49	I'm trying...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u50	Otherwise, I think you're addressing me. Then I think, ha, I'm gonna be in one of those movies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u51	I think everyone knows who I'm talking to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u52	No, you speak to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u53	Why is GroenLinks afraid...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u54	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u55	Why is GroenLinks afraid to leave this important issue to our citizens? It wouldn't hurt, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u56	GroenLinks is also one of the parties that is strongly in favour of giving citizens more space. And what referenda concerns was GroenLinks very critical that the cabinet intends to repeal the referendum law. On the contrary, I think it is right to treat all citizens equally. I get regular e-mails from people who find something about how I do something in the Chamber. That's what I'm gonna respond to. I do not think that the voice of such a loose citizen should count less than that of someone who was elected to a panel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u57	Fine. We are going to listen to Mr Sneller from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr. Chairman. I actually wanted to try to make this text look as much as possible like the blank report we produced in the written preparation, but it might be good to say that a large part of the work is being done in the committees on which this proposal is concerned. This is often less visible to the outside world, but therefore no less important that what is happening here in this Chamber, where indeed there are more cameras than in the committee rooms, even though they are hanging there nowadays. We should not underestimate the importance of proper organisation of these committees and the conduct of the debates there. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Naast de griffiers en de onderzoekers hebben ook commissievoorzitters een grote rol bij het goed laten verlopen daarvan, dus mijn fractie steunt van harte het voorstel om dit in het Reglement van Orde nader vast te leggen.]] I think it would be a good idea to respond to Mr Öztürk's words from D66. Thanks to D66, the profile for the President also shows that it must be innovative; "focused on improvement" says there. So basically I find it interesting to think about renewal. I only think that Mr Öztürk's proposal shows very little respect. He cites the British example and says he wants more resurrection. But the resurrection in the British Parliament, where there are beautiful documentaries about.... is accompanied by respect. I totally miss that. There would never be a video separator set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u59	Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u60	I wanted to go on about the proposal, because I had some more problems with it, but I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u61	I would like to point out once again that today we are discussing a proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure concerning the terms of reference for committee chairmen. It's going all over the place now. It's okay with me, but... All right, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u62	Too bad to hear this from a D66 room member. He wants to deprive citizens of the opportunity to comment on how the President of the Chamber functions. And then he uses the word "respect." You are disrespectful to our citizens. That's what you're used to. The moment you want to take away the right of referendum, you are disrespectful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u63	Is Mr. Sneller disrespectful?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u64	When a small group makes a comment here because the President of the Chamber is turning off his microphone, you find that disrespectful. Imagine that! I think it's a good thing we're going to the British Parliament together for once. You have seen documentaries, but apparently you have not seen everything that is said there. Then I will want to see with you what has been said here disrespectfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u65	I will respond briefly, in the sense of Mrs Voortman. I worked for a fraction of three, when D66 had three seats here, and I do not recognize in the least what you say about the treatment of smaller groups. I also think we should keep it that way. I would like to go with Mr Öztürk to London.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u66	Send us a postcard, I'd say. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u67	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u68	Mr. Öztürk. It's your moment of fame, so grab it too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u69	D66 is an established party and belongs to the establishment. When they had three seats, Mr Pechtold also complained; let us be honest. But now that they're back in the government, they've made the turn. They have abolished the referendum law. They don't find a video divider and a civilian panel interesting anymore. If they get hit again in the election, I'd like to hear how they feel about the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u70	Clear. Thank you. This wasn't a question. Mr Markuszower of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a proposal which formalizes the tasks of the committee chairmen. The explanatory statement of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber mainly refers to a technical amendment, but in my view this is not entirely formulated. By including a non-limitative list of the duties of the chairman of the committee, a formalized increase in relation to the current tasks takes place. So today we are talking not only about formalising a technical amendment to the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber, but also about increasing the duties of committee chairmen. Now, if the duties of committee chairmen are almost aligned at committee level with the duties of the President of the Chamber, my group believes that the appointment of a committee chairman should also be equivalent to the appointment of the President. As the proposed Article 26a is mirrored by the current Article 6, the Article 26 I am proposing must also be reflected in the current Article 4. I therefore ask the author of this proposal to amend the proposal in such a way as to make the procedure for electing committee chairmen equal to the procedure for electing the President of this Chamber. So Members of Parliament who wish to be chairman of the committee must be able to speak on the basis of a profile drawn up by the committee. Such candidacy must be public, as must the entire application procedure. Candidates must motivate their candidacy to the committee........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ All this is the same as the procedure that is currently being followed when the President of this Chamber is elected. Please respond to this. DENK's pill is about to wear off, but he's still coming, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr. Markuszower is trying to be a little funny, but he can't. You need to practice a little more, Mr. Markuszower. I've already submitted the proposal. I said that, in our opinion, committee chairmen should also, like the President of the Chamber, apply and be appointed, and be evaluated every year. So you're taking over my proposal one-on-one. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u73	I think I have put it a little better and dressed it a little more legally, but what you put here is the maximum we could expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u74	Maybe I don't quite understand it, but now any member of the committee can still stand as a candidate for the presidency? In practice, there's often only one candidate, but anyone who wants to can run, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u75	We could differ on current practice. I really am a relative newcomer and I have a bit of a feeling that choosing the committee chairmen is a bespoke and a bespoke. But let me stay away from that, because you're right. Rule 26 of the current Rules of Procedure is indeed about the appointment, and I have also seen that ballot papers are being worked on in the current Committee. So you are not wrong in formal terms, but I do not think I am formally wrong either. If the tasks of the committee chairmen are formally equal to those which are now laid down in Rule 6, in my view, why not use the same procedure as is currently laid down in the Rules of Procedure when we elect the chairman? Then you'll mirror it 100%. I think you also agree with me that the choice of the President of the Chamber is now taking place differently. The procedure is different, it is public, it can be done and it is motivated. This is not the case with the current committee chairmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u76	Very good. Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. We shall now listen to the President. I would just like to point out that we are really going to talk about the working methods committee's proposal, that is to say the terms of reference for committee chairmen. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank all Members of Parliament for their contribution. This proposal was actually intended to strengthen the Court's information position. As you know, at my election in 2016 as well as at my re-election in 2017, I indicated that further strengthening the knowledge position of the Chamber is one of my priorities. Many groups have also asked for this in the estimation, both last year and this year as well as in the coming year. As President, we said a year and a half ago that we were going to do something about it. At the initiative of me and the Bureau we asked a number of members of parliament, especially from the Bureau: Stientje van Veldhoven, Pieter Duisenberg, Linda Voortman and Mei Li Vos. They formed a small sounding board group and had all kinds of conversations with MPs to ask what they needed to support their Chamber work, especially when it comes to information. What exactly do they need? This led to a report on the Court's function of knowledge and research, in which the proposal was made that the committees should be set up exactly as Mr Sneller has just said. The committees have a very important role to play. All attention is focused on this Chamber and, of course, it is also very important, but a lot of important debates take place in the committees. It is very important to strengthen those committees as well. That is why we have embraced the report of the KVKO........................................................................................................................................................... We have decided to support the committees differently by releasing people from the organisation who will support the committees in parallel with the committees of inquiry. We create a staff, a team of clerks and knowledge coordinators, etc., to improve the quality of the work that MPs do, so that the information is timely and so that it is properly arranged. We even adapted the organization to that. Three services had to be merged and new functions created. In the beginning it was a bit scary, but in the end it has led to a lot of satisfaction for Members of Parliament anyway, but also for those who now support the committees, including the officials. They find new energy, new dynamics, and there is great satisfaction. All committees are now using such a method. As part of the strengthening of committee work, it has also been said that we need to redesign the halls. The dualist system we have here, the cabinet is here in section K, and the Chamber is there, we want to be in the halls. I think we've got two halls set up so that you can meet on one side and there's a little life in those committee rooms on the other side. That's what's gonna happen. Most Members of Parliament have said that the committees have a face. That face is the chairman of the committee. When I was a Member of Parliament, I was also chairman of the committee and vice-president of another committee. That's what I did when I was a Member of Parliament. That was some kind of corvee. You were going to have a general discussion first or you were in the room and then you had to run to a committee, because there was a procedure. That's not entirely right either. We see that the committee chairmen do a lot of work. They lead a lot of general consultations. They do all these procedural meetings. But they are also the face of the committee when they go on work visits or organise hearings. They also receive delegations from the Netherlands and abroad. We've said as Presidium that we want to anchor that position a little bit so it gets a status, because it's not something you just add to it. In this connection, I would like to mention the example of Mr Pechtold, who is now chairman of the Antilles Committee. That is a good example that it is not something you just add, but that it is very important to be able to do so. In this context, this amendment has been proposed by the Working Method Committee. Frankly, I thought it was a very nice proposal and that everyone would embrace it, but it is a bit degenerate in a completely different discussion that I think is not at all about. So I would like to stick to the proposal that I, at least some Members of Parliament, wanted to put on the agenda here today. The aim of this proposal is to strengthen the work of the committee and to give the committee chairmen a bit of guidance in order to be able to do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u78	I asked for your response to my proposal, which is in line with your proposal. I'd still like to hear a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u79	Yeah, I'm gonna do that. So much for my general part. Some questions have been asked, no specific questions, which in any case relate to this proposal. Mr Öztürk spoke about the video divider. Let's see if I can count fast. We've got about five cameras here, I think. It's just being broadcast. We have Debate Direct. Anyone can follow it live and also watch back with Debate Miss. It's on the website. It's streaming live. In that sense we also serve DENK for a few movies, so that is also included. If DENK wants to make a proposal for a video divider, it is up to DENK to do so himself and to ask the Chamber to give a ruling. I am simply defending the working method committee's proposal. If DENK wants something of their own, they have to make a proposal for it, I think. And in the end, it's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u80	Öztürk, on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u81	When the President-in-Office applied here, she indicated that she wanted to stand up for small groups and that she wanted to give the citizens as much opportunity as possible to see and comment on the debates. The footage's already here. All we're asking for is a civilian panel of a number of people, 100, 200 or 1,000 may also give objective, transparent feedback. What's the harm?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u82	I really agree with the proposal made by the Working Method Committee. DENK is free to make a proposal to do it differently. I would like to make a comment about a minority, a majority, small groups, large groups. That is not the case in this house. If I look now, for example, at the list of speakers, I see that DENK has registered for ten minutes. The rest have entered speaking time for one or two minutes. So DENK and everyone are free to fill in the number of minutes or hours they want to speak in legislation or debates of this kind. For example, we have VAOs. Everyone has two minutes of speaking time there by default. For majority debates, speaking time is agreed by a majority. So in that sense, there is no difference between large and small groups. In fact, I am really watching for small groups, whether you agree or not, to come to their senses. So in that respect, what you're saying just doesn't add up to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u83	In conclusion, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u84	If you want to innovate, if you want to make the Chamber transparent, break open, you need to be open to new ideas, including from small groups. Small groups are treated unfairly. We've got footage of that. We've sent several letters to the Bureau about that. It's up to the public to know that. We have sent our complaints several times towards Presidium, but also in the Presidium are the large groups, the established order, and they cover each other. It is important, precisely in order to break that established order, that we give the citizen an opportunity to make an objective judgment. I would like to ask again: be open to that, think about it, do not walk away from it. It is only good and an improvement for your functioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u85	Citizens are called in every time. If Mr Öztürk asked the citizen what he was up against, I do not think that the citizen would say that he was agitated by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure's proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure with regard to the inclusion of a mandate for committee chairmen, Section 34793. The citizen has concerns, has problems. These problems should be dealt with here in this House and the debate should be about that. Today we are talking about a proposal from the committee, and I do not think that the public is aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u86	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u87	Maybe it'll be broadcast live through the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u88	With 17 million video references. Mr. Öztürk, really finishing now, briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u89	At the beginning of my speech, I said that the way we deal with each other is based on the way people interact in society. So we have an example. At a time when the newcomers, the small groups, are being dealt with unfairly, this also has an appeal. That's gonna wake the public up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u90	Fine. Mrs. Arib, closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u91	I actually said what I have to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u92	Fine. You're continuing. The next debate will begin in three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u93	Then I'm going to see Mr Markuszower. He asked a question about the increase in duties and said that it should be analogous to the terms of reference of the President of the Chamber. Mrs Voortman has actually already said it in the case of interruption: at the moment, everyone can stand up for the chair of a committee. Experience has shown that the great parties used to deliver the presidents. That has been very difficult this time, because there were few people who wanted to do so. If we formalise this in the Rules of Procedure, I hope that this will also open up this possibility to Members of Parliament and that more Members of Parliament will chair a committee and run for office. Because it's been really difficult the last time. There are groups that have said: we are not doing it, because we are small. Of course, relations have changed: we don't have really large groups anymore, which many people can deliver. So we really almost had to beg: would you please nominate someone with experience who can chair a committee? In this context, I would also like to say that perhaps Mr Öztürk does not believe me to be extremely important that DENK has also delivered a Vice-President. We were very happy about that. In that sense, everyone is right and everyone has the same possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u94	In fact, I saw something else: not so much on the tasks, the availability or the current practical implementation of the Presidency, but on the formal procedure for selecting a new chairman of the committee, as proposed by you. I would like to hear your reply as to whether you agree with me that the way in which the President of the entire Chamber is elected in an open application procedure should not also apply when choosing a committee chairman. I haven't heard your reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u95	Well, that probably has to do with the fact that there were almost no candidates. But if there are more candidates, and I hope that there are more candidates, then it is indeed up to the committee to say: well, we actually want to do it in a different way, so by presenting themselves or perhaps writing a letter, just like it does in the Chamber Presidency. But I hope this is a start to organize it that way. Once again, it is possible for all 150 Members of Parliament to table a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. If there are really concrete ideas in Mr Markuszower, but so are Mr Öztürk, to do it in a different way, I would say: work it out and then we will get to work on it. In the end, it is up to the House to decide by a majority, that is how it works in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u96	I would not like to do that with Mr Öztürk, but I would like to think with you in that working method committee about equalising that electoral procedure. I'm kind of looking for a commitment from you to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u97	I'm open to that, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u98	Look, you have it inside, Mr. Markuszower. Were you ready, Mrs. Arib? That's the case. This was the deadline of the Working Method Committee. Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Oh, Mr Öztürk. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u99	Mr. Chairman. Mr Markuszower does not want to go with Özturk, but with Arib. It's been noted. It's interesting to hear that. I have three motions, which I ask the Chamber to rule. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[Whereas members of parliament represent voters and the fact that taking away the word of a Member of Parliament is the taking away of the word of the electorate;]] [[noting that discussion may arise or the taking away of the word, whether in a fair and just manner or not, i.e. for all parties and members of parliament in the same way;]] [[points out that the Chamber wishes to experiment with a video-discriminate judge who assesses matters that MPs or the President of the Chamber/Committee present to them, where the video-discriminate may, for example, be a citizen's panel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Working Method Committee proposed adding a mandate for committee chairmen to the Rules of Procedure, including an annual review of the annual plan;]] [[calls on the Working Method Committee to also submit a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure on an annual evaluation of the functioning of Committee Chairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34793-5]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34793-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u100	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the President of the Chamber plays a crucial role in Parliament;]] [[points out that the Court considers it important to review the functioning of the President of the Chamber on an annual basis and to discuss it at the time of the estimation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34793-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u101	I don't have the motions, but maybe it's a good thing to say that this is different from the cabinet. A ruler may not recommend a motion or leave it to the Chamber, but that is not the case in my situation. It is the Chamber that deals with this, so the Chamber must judge the motions itself. But I would like to say one thing about the first motion, which is about such a video divider. In the end, it's up to the Chamber, but I'd like to warn you about the fact that we're not robots. Politics remains human work, so committee chairmen can also make a mistake. The same applies to the President of the Chamber. We do not want to have fearful presidents who are afraid that they will no longer be able to function freely through a video or whatever. I'd like to warn you about that. In the end, it is a matter of ensuring that all the Presidents are able to function according to the facts and that the Chamber has confidence in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u102	Thank you. Mr Öztürk, brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u103	I agree with the President of the Chamber. We're all human, so we can make mistakes. We can also have antipathies or prejudices. That is precisely why the President of the Chamber should not be afraid to present images to a civil panel. We can learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u104	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u105	It should not be the case that a harsh judgment is made. It's about functioning well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u106	Very good. Chairman Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u107	Everything will be broadcast live, so will this debate. Citizens are following us. I'm getting plenty of feedback from citizens about how things are going here. Actually, that's what I'd like to stick with. I thank all Members of Parliament for their contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u108	All right, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-25-tweedekamer-5.u109	Next Tuesday we shall be voting on the proposal from the Working Method Committee and on the three motions tabled by Mr Özturk. So far. I shall suspend for a moment in anticipation of the next debate.
