ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the book of the Association of Parents of a Murdered Child 'A Shadow Life'. The Vereniging Parents is in the public gallery. I'd like to welcome you. It is a difficult debate, I think, for you as a parent. The debate will be held with the Minister for Legal Protection. I'd like to welcome him to section K. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 19 January 1993 Linda Rijsbergen was murdered. The desperate parents went through hell. But not only their indescribable grief made it unbearable. They also found it horrible how horrible it was with the help of relatives: no or little communication with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, no shelter, no information. They didn't know anything about the TBs. There was no entrance to the authorities involved, and so on. These parents could of course have completely lost themselves in their grief, but they managed to gain the strength to make the difference for the next of kin. We therefore owe them a great deal of thanks. They are here today and have spent all these years with us to see what we could do to improve rights and positions. The whole society owes them a lot of thanks. How they made the difference, I'd like to share with you quickly. The right to speak has been modified. Victim support Netherlands has been placed in position. We've got a record of how we're dealing with victims. I also mention the family detectives, the damages and the injured parties in the criminal proceedings. The positions of children and grandchildren have been strengthened. Nor do I call it being forced to visit someone who killed a parent and banned the territory and contact. The foster care allowance continues after 21 years. This cabinet intends to strengthen even more victim rights. That's very important. We're about to get a re-evaluation of the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The rights of survivors must also be taken into account. Of course we still have some notes on our vocals, because a lot of rights are very difficult to enforce. Will it be a real touchstone for the Minister to ensure that we not only give rights to victims, but also make them enforceable? How do we do that? For example, look at the damage story. It's still a pain in the ass. There must be easily accessible references. How's that going? And what about the protection of personal data? The association clearly states that it needs something from an ombudsman. This is what happens every now and then: you have distraught grief and then there are all kinds of instances that have almost no compassion for you. I heard someone got a fine because the O.V. year card wasn't stopped in time. There are the study funding and all the horrible things you have to take care of, but actually people are knocking on the door: have compassion on how we are doing. What can the Minister do for that? We have, of course, already asked to ensure that there is a right to speak when extending TBs. We have been able to do this successfully, because we are working on it. But to what extent will there really be a firm position at the probation committee? Can the Minister say anything about that? And then the confrontation with perpetrators who, after their punishment, can almost freely live next door to you. You can run into them in your community. As a result, every day you are confronted with all the misery that is already unbearable. What about those plans? Are we going to a Belgian model? Do we give the mayor more room? We like to hear it. A number of specific questions were asked in the presentation of this interesting book. One would like a separate fund for next of kin related to the death of, with the murder of, a loved one abroad. I understand the Minister is thinking about that. Is there anything he can say about that? I think this is important. Victims also argue for a second opinion when there is real doubt about a cause of death. What do you mean, a suicide? People don't believe it and they think there's something else in the game. We would like more room for a second opinion. There is also a demand for an information point which can easily be accessed. These are important things that we want to have done. Mr. Chairman. I have to finish, because we only have four minutes. I'll finish with a thank you to the association. A shadow life is the catchy title of a memorial book and an assignment to all of us to continue our efforts to strengthen the position of victims and next of kin. We are the parents of Linda Rijsbergen, but also Jack Keijzer, Rien Verbiest, Paul Kuiper, the parents Van Kleeff and all the others who are in our midst today. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of the worst things that can happen to you as a parent is that you survive your own child. Of course, it's completely indigestible if your child is killed by violence. It is often said that the survivors of victims of life crimes are lifelong. That is not for nothing the title of the book that is the reason for this debate: A shadow lifelong. Mr. Chairman. There's nothing I wouldn't do to give those parents their child back. Unfortunately, that's not possible. However, it is my job as a representative of the people to see if there are sufficient opportunities for survivors to alleviate their suffering somewhat and therefore to see if legislation is adequate. If not, it is up to us to make or amend that legislation. My group has always done so and has tabled motions and requests on several occasions. Let me give you a few examples: the obligation to appear to suspects of serious violence and sexual offences in court if victims or survivors have indicated that they appreciate this, the maintenance of life imprisonment, the obligation to force the judge to include a passage in the sentence which clearly shows that the victim's statement or the surviving one and the possibility of stacking sentences if several serious crimes have been committed by the same person have been taken into account. Mr. Chairman. I have to say that all the parties who are represented here today and speak against this were against it. Why? Because it came from the PVV. Of course, I like to take the loss as long as the victims and the next of kin are helped, but I think it's the place to say this. Because I think it's hypocritical. People's representatives must keep an eye on the great importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u5	I am very sorry that Mrs Helder says these things, because I do not recognize this. I do not recognise the fact that we do not want a passage about victims to be reported. I do not recognise the fact that we did not want a life sentence to be imposed, because fortunately we can still do so. I am so sorry that an image is being drawn up as if the important rights we have sought to form together were simply not created by the PVV. I do not think Mrs Helder is doing herself any justice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u6	I have printed out all the motions which clearly show the opposite of what Mr Van Toorenburg has just said. Even for my actions, these motions have been drafted in such a nuanced manner that they should have been judged on the content. That didn't happen. I think this is the place to discuss this fully for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mrs Helder knows better than anyone that someone can table a motion if we have a plan together to improve something, but that this does not have to be done, because it is already done. This applies to the obligation to appear and to all kinds of rights to speak. In spite of the good intentions, we do not need a motion from the PVV. It is very often the case that you may not vote for a motion, but then order the government and others, possibly in a coalition agreement, to do it. Let us look at the list of what we have achieved and not so much at a call to the Chamber that may not have been heard because it had already been designed differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr Van Toorenburg clearly contradicts himself in her second term. Three times a no came up against the obligation of appearance and then that........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is why I am happy when the victims and relatives are helped, but politics must also be appointed occasionally. I'm gonna get on with my input. Victims can now also talk about the offence, the defendant's fault and the level of punishment. This is particularly due to the experience experts, as they are often referred to. The next of kin in the case that has been given the terrible term "the misdemeanour" is that he has always used this right of speech in a special way. They showed a film about the victim's life in court. Although I understand that, and I also believe that this should be possible, as a representative of the people, I believe that we should also be careful to move on to the other side, also in order to avoid disappointments. The defendant is innocent until the judge has declared him or her guilty. However, they are faced with the suffering of their families, which is, of course, terrible. The question is therefore: how far should we allow this to go in order to prevent victims on that side too, and to prevent disappointment among the relatives because they have done their story and ultimately proved to be acquittal and they will wonder whether they have done it for nothing? In the past, therefore, it has been discussed in this context that the two stages of criminal proceedings should be cut. In the second stage it is clear that the defendant will be convicted and the next of kin will be fully addressed. It was also discussed at the time to transform our system of the two-party system, with the Public Prosecutor's Office on the one hand and the defendant and legal aid, i.e. with his lawyer, on the other hand, into a tripartite system, with a completely similar role, at least with comparable value, of the victims or the survivors. I would like to hear the Minister's views on these two possibilities. Finally, a comment on the letter that came in today. There is an approved chamber motion by the colleague of the SP.... if you are honest you must say so............................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is still the case that if next of kin wants a copy of the file and not just want access to it to call on third parties' expertise to determine the cause of the victim's death, nothing will change. I must say that I regret that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mrs Helder rightly points out that there is a thought to cut the criminal trial. As a CDA, we made a plea for this a few years ago, and then there was a major investigation to see if that would be wise or not. The outcome was that it didn't seem wise to do that. I'm still not convinced of that investigation. Because I think it would still be very clever. But do I hear the PVV also say that it would like to argue for it again? 'Cause maybe we'll get somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u10	If I don't plead for it, I don't know if we're gonna get nowhere. I remember there was a very big report at the time. I believe that the crux of the criticism was that it would take a very long time and that it would require a great deal from the court in terms of capacity. But I think it's okay to look at it, because I think we should monitor the balance. We must do full justice to the victims/nurse, but we must also ensure that a suspect is innocent until proven guilty. In that context, I would like to hear the Minister's views. To be honest, I don't know either. If it's going to lead to a new investigation, I'm sure I'll support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u11	It's been a very interesting investigation. So we need to see if we can still do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. It's every parent's fear that your child won't come home. We don't want to think about it, but we sometimes think about it, and then you can hardly imagine what inhuman grief and anger comes to you if you have to go through that. This is very fitting and intrusively described in the book A shadow lifelong. I had trouble reading it. You try to take it with some professional distance, but you can't. So I had to read it in stages. But it did inspire me. Also on my behalf a word of thanks to the Association Parents of a Murdered Child, because they have already done so much. It is precisely because of their experience that we were able to make sensible decisions for us in the House of Representatives to ensure that relatives and victims are heard, taken seriously and helped to get the help and rights that belong and are needed at a very difficult stage. Without their experiences, we couldn't have. But we're not done yet. It is therefore right that they describe in their book a number of things that we think can be even better. This is about speaking rights in relation to, for example, tbs extension. This is about aid; in this context, I would like to mention the digital provision of information which must be good and accessible. It is also about how we deal with suspects who do not want to cooperate, for example on an investigation. That is why, for example, a proposal has been made by us to see whether someone should be eligible for TBs after some form of detention. It is also about the call for help from parents of children who are murdered abroad. They also have the right to accessible assistance, both financially and otherwise, when it comes to a murdered child. I have a very simple question. The Minister must have read the book or at least taken note of the recommendations contained therein. I would like a response from the Minister to those recommendations. I am sure there are a number of things that have already been promised or agreed with, but there are also a number of points on which I think we agree that this should be recognised. The next of kin may be heard and need our help to realize those last pieces. There's more parents losing their kid. If you lose your child because of cancer, another illness or suicide, that's just as bad, but the nasty thing is that after the murder of your child you often go through a process of years, in which you first have to deal with the police, the legal system, the media, the perpetrators, the anger and everything that goes with it. Only that's what you've been doing for years before you're even due to grief, a sadness that never goes away. That moment comes so much later. I think that is the main reason why I should like to conclude by saying that an extra apple, an extra appeal may be made to us to be there for those relatives. They can be sure that they will be heard and helped in such a difficult time, a time that remains difficult. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. This is one of those books you hoped would never have to be written. A book that tells of the most horrible moment in a person's life, the moment when you are told that your child has been murdered and from now on you have to live in something that is actually unliveable. A book full of stories that we actually only get through messages in the newspaper. The book gives in about twenty penetrating portraits of the victims and the next of kin a harrowing, painful picture of changing lives. Some parents manage to get back on track. Others sink into grief, hatred and bitterness. And some feel everything and nothing at the same time. Whoever reads the stories becomes a very small part of the uniqueness of the great sadness. All happy families are alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. It is up to us, both public and political, to provide an approach which, where possible, meets the material and intangible needs of victims and relatives, which I also call victims. Mr. Chairman. Since the 1980s, victims matter, although the question is whether victim policy is still mainly a paper issue. Victims are informed about the conduct of the investigation or are heard at the hearing and are given the opportunity to claim damages on the perpetrators, but we still hear of painful incidents. Until recently, some courts had one common waiting area for victims and offenders. This shows that the empathy with victims can be improved. In his letter, the Minister proposes, among other things, to extend the right to speak and introduce an obligation for suspects to appear. Naturally, GroenLinks shares the underlying idea of this kind of proposal: victims who want to, must be able to tell their perpetrators the truth, right to their face. At the same time, not every suspect is the actual perpetrator. Some proposals should be considered in the light of the rule of law that everyone is held innocent until proven guilty. Perhaps we should rethink the introduction of a two-stage model in criminal justice. In the first phase, the questions about the guilt of the offence are central, in the second phase the translation of the impact of the offence on the victim and society into the sanction to be imposed. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The proposals raise another question. Shouldn't we also think about proposals where victims who want to get the direction of the criminal case back? In the J and V budgets, the Court has recorded it for yet another year in succession for mediation in criminal matters. Mediation does not lend itself to all cases, but it gives victims who want to do so opportunities that are unthinkable in criminal proceedings. The interests of victims are not just fuel for criminal justice. Sometimes victims need to be given room to take control of themselves, so in addition to that criminal case. Finally, Mr President. Victims play not only in criminal justice but also outside. I would like to mention an example of a woman who, after her husband's murder, was confronted with a company full of debts. At the time of settlement, the Tax Administration refused to do business with an engaged intermediary. These cases, too, require empathic solutions. What does the Minister think about asking the National Ombudsman to identify problems with the government and propose solutions to them? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr President. As colleagues have already said, twenty parents have written an outspokenly moving book. You have it in front of you as well. They describe what happened to them after their child was murdered. That's what we're talking about today. The Association Parents of a Murdered Child makes a number of suggestions. Actually, I was just gonna drop by on those proposals. First of all, I am talking about the right to speak at the so-called TBs extension sessions. I am pleased to note that the Minister has recently put forward very concrete and, as far as my group is concerned, very good proposals on the future shape of this policy. That letter also contains a lot of other subjects, and I will not mention them all now, which responds to many of the wishes expressed by victims or relatives about their involvement in the criminal proceedings and the subsequent re-socialisation of the offender who caused them that suffering. I'd like to make those compliments to the Minister. Another wish of the association is to create a so-called digital information point. I understand that the criminal record can be kept in a simple and transparent manner. If I understand correctly, the Minister's letter says that this is just going to be settled. Please confirm at this point. The Minister also announced in the letter that the stories of damage suffered by victims should be better. I also believe that this fits in perfectly with the aim that the association has laid down, namely that victims, survivors whose child was murdered abroad, should have access to the Damage Fund for Violent Crimes outside the European Union. That is not the case now. At least, it's not necessarily the case right now. I would ask the Minister for Legal Affairs to look specifically at what needs to be done in order to achieve this objective with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also very much hope that the group will be fairly clear so that this can be achieved. I refer you to a second opinion when you answer the question of whether there is murder or suicide to a motion tabled by Mr Van Nispen on that point. However, I have difficulty with the notice that I am now receiving that, for example, the Public Prosecutor would be reluctant to provide data to third parties if requested. I understand, of course, that you shouldn't just want to go through with that, that you don't just give that data to the first person to ask the question. You need to know if it's true, you need to know who it is and to what extent you can rely on, for example, the confidentiality of that data. But I do insist that this can be organized. Another point is increasing the maximum detention rate in youth. That is also a wish of the association. I do not think that is a problem, quite the contrary. I have visited a number of juvenile prisons and, frankly, I am convinced that this juvenile prison is sometimes the only and perhaps best environment for young people to get regular in a rather safe environment, to get something from education and something from a normal life. That's what I want them to do, and that's what society needs to do. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks at that. Finally, I have two brief points. First of all, the cold cases. That is separate from the wishes of the association. I asked earlier in a Question Time for attention to remove restrictions that would exist on the police team that focuses on dealing with cold cases. I would like to know from the Minister how it is working. My final comment concerns the Commission's Conditional Release. Mrs Van Toorenburg always calls that the parole board, but I use the Dutch term. It is an incredibly important committee, which can give a position to victims and relatives at the time you talk about the return of the perpetrator in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u18	A few years ago, we proposed doubling the sentence for young people. That's why a bill came to the Chamber. But the VVD took out the doubling of the sentence. Do I hear the VVD say again: perhaps we should do it anyway and still ensure that a longer period of time can be worked on changing behaviour and the awareness of young people, so that these punishments go up again? That was a wish from the CDA. It was in front of the room, but the VVD took it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u19	I do not know how that went at the time. I'll tell you about my visit to juvenile prisons. I've been to Cadier and Keer and Lelystad. I have come to the understanding that I can see a great deal of value in it, but I would like to hear the Minister about it. You can talk about doubling the juvenile detention, but there may also be other methods. In any case, I am convinced for a lot of those young offenders of the following. They have done something horrible, but if you bring them back very quickly in the perhaps very fragile environment where they came from, I do not know whether society will be able to make much progress in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u20	Well, that's a bright spot. I think we should look again at how we are shaping this. We have been able to achieve together that youth TBs, as we sometimes call them, can continue in the adult TBs. Fortunately, that has remained, but I thought it was a missed opportunity for the doubling of the sentence to be removed. If I hear the VVD say today that it might have to go back in, we should look at that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u22	The moment you get older from a child, not only does a new love come into your life, but also a new kind of fear. The fear deep inside that something serious will ever happen to your child. It's almost impossible for me to imagine what that's like. When I read the experiences of parents for whom this fear has become reality, I can only express my great admiration for their strength. Take Paul Kuiper, Maaike's father. I quote from the article in Trouw. One of his first reactions after Maaike's death was: "Now everything has been for nothing, our education, the dance lessons, the half-yearly course to the dentist. But soon I realized that I was making a serious mistake of thinking, because our upbringing had made her who she was. Whoever knew our Maaike is mainly talking about her smile. It came from her shoes. We would fail her if we were to go through life broken. Then the unsub's got us, too." It is also thanks to this resilience and that of other parents that more attention has been paid to victims and relatives in criminal law in recent years. My compliments on that. But these parents also feel that more needs to be done. I would like to make three points. The first is the creation of a separate fund for survivors of victims of violence abroad. Previous speakers also mentioned this. Despite the protocol for foreign affairs emergencies, it depends on the embassy and foreign authorities, as in the case of missing persons abroad, on what they can do for next of kin. What is the Minister's response to this? Is he indeed talking to his colleague from the Foreign Office about this? How does he look at a separate fund, where next of kin can make use of it if abroad or even its own embassy does not do enough? For my second point, the SP, the PVV, the VVD and the CDA, actually the entire Chamber, have been asking attention for a long time: to provide the research file more often if next of kin want a second opinion. Sometimes they have serious doubts if, for example, the D.A. thinks it was suicide. There is an adopted SP motion that says: now expand those possibilities for next of kin to have the research file examined with due regard to the privacy................................................................................................................................................................ There is now a call from the Association Parents of a Murdered Child. We need more room for that second opinion. But what does the Minister write to the Chamber yesterday, apparently after almost one and a half years of study? I'm not carrying out that Chamberwide motion. That's what it actually says. I have to say, then, that we have not made any progress at all. I find that really very disappointing. Suspects of murder get a copy of the file, but no next of kin. A mother whose daughter would have been killed says: "There is no greater grief than having to bury your child, but that my own government is not doing a proper investigation or letting me do the murder of my daughter, which makes it unbearable." Can I have a response from the Minister to this very understandable appeal in my view? Does the Minister intend to revise yesterday's letter on this point and carry out that motion in the interests of truth and mourning? He also heard the previous speakers. In May 2015, a motion was adopted by my SP colleague Nine Kooiman on a different wish from these parents: extending the right to speak to TBs extension sessions. Back then, Minister Blok felt that this was unnecessary, but fortunately, thanks to the call of these parents, this minister decided to give victims a vote on conditional termination of the forced care, so that they can decide on the conditions that can be attached to the conditional termination, such as a contact or location ban. I think that's very good. It seems an unnecessary question, but do we mean "victims" here? Can the Minister confirm that? Finally, I would like to thank the parents once again for sharing their experiences with us and for using these experiences for others who, unexpectedly, end up in the same situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr President. In the book A shadow lifelong many impressive and often even heartbreaking stories have been recorded, stories in which there are many differences, but also one crucial common denominator: they are parents who have lost a child through violence. Several speakers have already said that this is a horrible, perhaps the most horrible, event in human life. The book is about people with very different histories and backgrounds, but it is always about violent deaths in the Netherlands or abroad. Sometimes an unsub was found and tried, sometimes not. As a former prosecutor who had a lot of victim and family conversations, I recognized the diversity in the book, including the attitude of the next of kin to the criminal case against the defendant in the case in which their child died. Some people put all their grief into the criminal case, for others it hardly plays a role. It really differs per person and per situation. In this sense, I recognize very well the image that the victim and the next of kin do not exist. A personal approach is always very important. Mr. Chairman. The government can't take away the huge loss. What the government can and must do is treat next of kin with care. In addition to the grief, the exposure to criminal law, to the device, to the rules, often has a huge impact on people. In recent years there has been a lot of improvement in the position of the victim and the next of kin. They have been given a strong position in legislation. Police, Public Prosecutor's Office and also courts have done a great deal to implement this. Familierechers at the police and victim coordinators at the Public Prosecutor's Office have now, by the way, become a matter of course. I believe that the challenge for the coming years will be to put all the measures taken into practice. 'Cause that's where things still go wrong sometimes. I have already mentioned an example from my own experience and I am doing it again today. It's about a father of a daughter who died. During the death certificate, he was invited to sit next to the defendant in the courtroom. That is not good, of course, and it is good that the Minister should deal with these problems. Here and there are some other weird rattles, such as the often weaker position of stepparents vis-à-vis biological parents, for example in the question of whether there is a right to speak or in the question of the level of compensation for affection damage. As if that difference in position, chairman, would matter for the grief that people experience! It is also a good thing that the Minister is going to look into this at the request of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Many questions have already been asked, and I really only have one supplementary question to the Minister on his letter. In that letter he writes that he is being informed about the possibility of a compensation fund for victims of violence abroad. That is of course good, but I also have a question about the position of victims of international crime. They cannot rely on the Damage Fund Violent Crimes and are not entitled to free legal aid. Especially the latter insists, because victims in such cases are often heard intensively in the Netherlands. The Minister indicated earlier in the autumn budget debate that he was going to look into this, but we have not heard from him since. Can he update on the state of play? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I'm looking at the minister and I see he wants to suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u26	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Chairman. It is not very often that we have a debate on a book in this house. Today is an exception, and I think that is a justified exception. The feeling that I had when I read the book was the same, I think, as the feeling that Mrs. Kicken sketched. It's a book that makes you feel a knot in your stomach every once in a while and then you put it away. It is a book that describes intense grief, but also a book that deals with the admirable resilience that victims and relatives of this kind of horrific events have shown. I think it is wonderful that you are here today, I say through the chairman, also because the association, which is now entering a new organisation, has made itself so incredibly hard for a better position of victims in law. Where that might have been a blind spot in our criminal proceedings and in our regime 25 years ago, we see that there has now been a right to speak, that there is working with family detectives and that Victim Help Netherlands, including with the case managers, has become increasingly involved. This is thanks to the many work and commitment made by the association. Thank you very much for that. A debate like today is not a debate in which we are going to catch each other. From the government but also from the various political groups, opposition and coalition, and from different interests, it has been said: let us see what we can do to improve the position of victims. I have tried to make a small contribution to this in the letter I sent to your Chamber on the European Victim's Day, 22 February. In that letter a number of things have been described, and I myself have the impression that the letter also passes through the subjects raised by the association. Where I did not do that in the letter, I will do it in my speech later. On a number of points, I believe that this will be sufficiently honoured, for example in relation to the right to speak for relatives at TBs sessions or the information point. The latter may take longer than everyone would have wanted, but it is going to happen. From a number of other issues we have said: we are positive in itself, but they require a little more research to take steps. I shall return to all these themes, I say in the direction of Mrs Kuik, who asked me to follow them up. Mr. Chairman. I am building my speech on the same three-stroke as I used in the victim support agenda. First of all, I would like to say something about rights and the legal situation. Then let me say something about how organisations in the criminal justice chain actually deal with victims and relatives. Does that happen in a way that makes people feel taken seriously? Then I'd like to say a few things about damage. Finally, I will touch on a number of themes which I have just put under the 'varia' block. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the status of victims. In the last ten or twenty years there has really been a huge improvement. We've known the right to speak for years. That's good. From now on, I would like to oblige suspects who are in remand due to a violent or sexual crime to be present at the hearing to speak as victims and then to give a ruling by the judge. Along those lines, I would also like to try to standardise the right to speak. I think it is a good thing that it does not matter whether you are before the courts in Amsterdam or Maastricht, but that victims throughout the Netherlands are treated in the same way and have a position. I have just said something about the right to speak in the extension of TBs cases. Mr Van Nispen asked whether that was also for next of kin. The short answer to that is yes. A number of Members of Parliament have asked additional questions about the proposals I have made. I like to walk by them. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked what the stick is behind the door. Are rights now enforceable for victims? I think that is a very valid point. It is more fundamental and more fundamental to our procedural law, the Code of Criminal Procedure. I want to see if this can get a good place in the review of that book. There are already possibilities in terms of enforceability. I have examples here where you can do that now. There has all been very good work done by the officials in the preparation. But I understand that it can be more coherent. I will be happy to look into this in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is a major operation. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van Oosten spoke about the possibility of family members and victims to have access to the files. Others also referred to this. Mr Van Nispen said: I am disappointed with the letter sent by the Minister yesterday. I think it is important to note that the Public Prosecutor's Office has just said that it wants to apply a more generous framework and apply it to next of kin than it is currently doing. At least, that is how I read the letter I sent together with Mr Grapperhaus. If there is a need to have access to files, the public prosecutor wants to be more generous in doing so, with a number of ifs and buts when it comes to providing documents about other persons. I think it is important to emphasise this here. Survivors can also contact the Public Prosecutor's Office with a request for further investigation if they feel that some of their concerns have not been sufficiently addressed. They can also complain to the court, the so-called Article 12 procedure. The reluctance of the Public Prosecutor's Office is if the Public Prosecutor's Office feels that access to the files or requesting the files actually goes one step further, namely that the files will not be provided to the immediate relatives or victims, but to the parties behind them, for example investigative journalists or private investigators, researchers, to do the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I understand that a little bit. In the way we organized it in the Netherlands, the monopoly for conducting criminal investigations is very strongly with the Public Prosecutor's Office. And that OM is organized in the Netherlands in such a way that it has a certain independence, a majestic position. This cannot be fully achieved if a third party to the proceedings enters into criminal law. This is without prejudice to my view that it is important for the Public Prosecutor's Office to examine with the new organisation, the FNG, how family doubts can be apprehended at an early stage and how to look at them seriously, how information from next of kin, if present, can be taken into account in the process, and what police and prosecutors can learn from this kind of experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u28	I do not think this is a debate for very great political differences, but I do not think that this answer is sufficient. On a whole range of other points we agree today, but we really do not agree on this point. It was precisely the efforts of next of kin that, in a number of cases, we can mention them in particular, which ultimately led to criminal proceedings and thus truth finding. This is because in the past a research file was made available and there was a second opinion. If this is reserved only for the D.A., then there is no control possible. Will the Minister go into that again? Precisely in the past, the efforts of relatives with very persistent, good lawyers have led to the truth of making the investigation file available. And that is independent of the importance of mourning, because that too is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u29	I see the point of mourning. In my view, this is very much about the first point, Mr Van Nispen's feeling that the Public Prosecutor's Office would abandon certain leads or research areas or would not be sufficiently serious about very serious matters. I fully understand that. I also think that, if there are serious doubts, the Public Prosecutor should take a serious look at them and take them up. At the same time, in our criminal justice system for victims and relatives, we have a way of appealing against decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office on which they are dissatisfied. They may still be able to force the D.A. to bring the investigation to justice. I'm a little reluctant myself. I share that concern with the Public Prosecutor's Office when it comes to a third trial party in our legal system that is going to conduct independent investigations. In our system, that is actually reserved for the police and the justice system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u30	The Minister should not exaggerate what is being proposed here. We're not proposing a third trial party. We propose that relatives who doubt the cause of death, for example, because they believe that there is no suicide, should be able to request the file to investigate it. I don't think that's a crazy question at all. With that, we're not introducing a third trial party. But if the Minister says that the existing procedure is working, then I would say that there are examples in which it does not work. It also happens that people go to the D.A.'s office and ask if it wants to do another investigation, but the DA says, no, we don't see any reason for that. The minister says you can go to court, but you can't, because you don't have a file and you can't prove that there's more to it. I am not going to mention the names of dead victims here, but the examples of the past are known. They've been in the news a lot. The cases in the past have shown that sometimes the D.A. may be wrong. Then I don't think I can explain that we're actually going back here in time. I am not even talking about a motion that the Minister is not carrying out at the moment, because I do not want to go into that political battle today, but I am talking purely about its content. The past has shown that more is needed and that, in the interests of truth and mourning, we cannot deny the research file. The Minister is doing that now, and I'm really disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u31	I would rather not disappoint Mr Van Nispen, also because I do not think that we disagree on the substance at all. I am not saying that things are going well at the moment. It is not for nothing that we have just started... That letter has been waiting for a long time, because our predecessors have already had a lot of discussions about this with the Public Prosecutor's Office. How can you do that in a way that does justice to the principles on the basis of which we have established our legal system and our criminal procedure law, but which more than in the past meets the needs of victims and relatives, even where there is doubt? That's why we don't stick to everything. The Public Prosecutor's Office has indicated that it will amend its jurisdictional and criminal data law and its designation of victim care. That's not a narrowing down, it's an extension. It is clearly a more generous position vis-à-vis victims and relatives. I'd like to give the D.A. a chance to see if that will lead to improvements. The Public Prosecutor's Office also wants to sit down with the FNG to see if it can provide for a number of concerns. The only point that I think the Public Prosecutor is making is that I am not yet on the bridge that it says: where there is an external party that is going to take over our role when it comes to doing criminal investigations, we are a little more hesitant and a little more reluctant. This is without prejudice to the fact that it is going to be more generous than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u32	I would still like to try to get the Minister to take it one step further. It's not crazy at all. Every profession understands that sometimes you need a second opinion. The best doctors encourage: let someone else look at it. Nor have I heard the next of kin say that they want a file to be distributed somewhere else. But could the minister promise that he would like to see how for a second opinion you could perhaps have another district attorney from another arrondissement look at whether another coroner could look at it, just to keep ourselves sharp and avoid that tunnel vision? The solutions offered by the Minister do not offer any comfort, because an Article 12 procedure takes too long. It's just a matter of days. Can the Minister promise us that he will look and come back with another letter: another prosecutor, a second opinion in the state's attorney's office, a second opinion at a medical examiner's office? That could be one step ahead, even if we do it in a pilot, even if we do it for two years. Let's see what it gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u33	We're getting somewhere, I get the impression. You don't ask for a private party to do this. You're actually asking: can you arrange it within the D.A.'s office in such a way that in certain cases you have someone else look at it again? Let me take this point and, in the light of the letter I sent yesterday and the debate we have had today, see if I can supplement it in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u34	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u35	Okay, go on. Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u36	I also note that the Minister is prepared to look at this again and think about it. Can I also ask the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to take a look at some of the issues in the past and to talk to the lawyers who have been very keen on this, to discuss the problems and to say what is to be said about the letter written yesterday by the Minister? They can do it better than I can right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u37	I am always willing to do that, but I might want to go a step further. I think it's important for the D.A. to do that. Then you're talking about some kind of peer review, you might as well say, or learn from cases where things may not have gone well in the past. In the end, I would prefer the Public Prosecutor's Office to take the step here, and I do not want to say: learning from past mistakes has a progressive insight rather than that I or my colleague Grapperhaus from the Ministry is directly involved. The door's always open. I'd like to have that conversation with those lawyers, too. But I'd actually like to see if the D.A. can't have that kind of conversation, because that's what you learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u38	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second important issue. It's about the treatment of victims in criminal proceedings. Of course, you can have all kinds of formal rights, but it's also about whether you feel taken seriously, whether you feel that time is being taken for you, that if you go to court to exercise your right to speak you will be well received and well treated. A number of proposals are made on this subject in the new multi-annual agenda. I would like to pass on some of the questions that have been asked. So the digital window is just gonna be there. We are also going to look at the obstacles, I say in the direction of Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Van Toorenburg. This is a new point of contact, where victims and relatives will soon have to be able to find access to it. It's got a lot of feet in it if you want to do that in a good way, but I'm sure I'll take that. This includes the point raised by Mrs Helder: what about the privacy of data? That too is of course something that we are increasingly trying to automate. Over the past year, the way these victim data have been processed in the criminal justice chain has been mapped out and work has been done on different ways of solving this problem. The most important finding is that personal data, such as those of victims, are actually part of a very large amount of information products within the criminal justice chain and that the fact that the process is not fully digitised makes it even more complex. We are investing a great deal of money in the coming years in modernising information flows, and we are taking this into account immediately. I understand that this vision of the future is something that victims have not been helped immediately today. Therefore, in the current year, in 2018, a number of experiments will be carried out with the police, the prosecutor's office, the judiciary and Victim Help Netherlands, including with a possible limitation on the top five of the most common documents, such as declarations, in order, with relatively little effort, to protect those victims' personal data in a timely manner. Mr. Chairman. At the back, too, attention should be paid to victims, for example when prisoners are about to return to society. Mrs Van Toorenburg introduced the idea of a "parole board" at times. I think that is an interesting thing in principle. There are a number of countries, such as Canada, that work with this. It does have some feet in the earth if you would like to introduce that in the Netherlands as well. I am currently looking at what we can do in the context of the vision of the prison system and the application of freedom sanctions. If you go to a system like we agreed in the government agreement, where the conditional release is no longer an automatism, you will come to a more individual assessment anyway, and this could perhaps also be a place in it. Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Voortman asked for the possibility of a special Ombudsman. I myself am somewhat hesitant about this, because we have, of course, an Ombudsman who is already ready to deal with complaints from victims. I myself am a little afraid that we will soon have many different ombudsmen on very different subjects. What I heard you say, though, is that I would like to talk to the Ombudsman about this and perhaps also with Victim Help The Netherlands is that in some cases victims or survivors of serious crimes run into things where they feel that they are not getting through. In the misery and sorrow you have already experienced, you must fight through it again. Then sometimes it can help that there is someone who also picks up the phone or helps you with contacts with other government agencies. This might also be possible from the case management of Victim Support Netherlands, because they are actually the people who stand next to victims and next of kin to help them with everything that comes towards them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u40	I did not ask for a separate Ombudsman. I also see the arguments put forward by the Minister, namely that you will have many different ombudsmen. I am concerned with the situations in which you miss empathy and it is said that the rules are sister or something, when we are dealing here with parents of a murdered child and the rules simply are not applicable. What I asked for is whether the Minister would be willing to ask the Ombudsman to identify problems with the government that these parents may have and to propose solutions to them. So not another Ombudsman, but the Ombudsman we already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u41	I don't think that's a crazy idea. Now we are avenging that we are not the Ombudsman's client and I cannot admit that I am going to ask him to do so. But I can talk to him about it to see if he thinks that's useful, if he sees a role for himself and if he can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u43	I would like to go a step further on that point. The Ombudsman only has access to and judgment on what is of the government. That is often complicated enough. But that does mean that victims and next of kin have asked us if there is anyone who can come with some authority to say to certain companies 'boys, back-off', to make sure that someone can take his life again and not come into that bureaucratic mill of 'that's how we take care of this'. So I'd still like to see if we can get a broader view than just the government, because that must of course be the least we can do as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u44	I see the point. It's perfectly right that you don't belong to things. I believe that Mrs Kikke had an example of companies and debts that you then run into, and that it can help that you have a little help. I think that is a different role from that of the Ombudsman. An Ombudsman is ultimately a person who deals with complaints and gives an opinion as to whether there has been a good deal of action in certain situations. I don't think that's what you're looking for. You're looking for someone standing next to victims and next of kin who gives them advice and sometimes says, "You know, I'm gonna try to help you." There I see a much bigger role for for example Victim Help The Netherlands. They give help to the most serious crimes, murder and manslaughter, to victims. They're really gonna set someone free for that. So that's going to be a kind of case manager who, at different stages in the criminal process and also in the mourning process afterwards and in the practical handling of a lot of things, is actually your support and indulgence. I would like to look much more closely at whether we can do anything in the cases you are referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u45	I would like to look into this with the Minister, but he just said that he wants to speak with the Ombudsman and with the help of the Netherlands Victims. I would ask him to speak to the experts in experience, because they really have ideas about this, however much we appreciate Victim Aid Netherlands. These are the concrete examples. They may not have been helped with what the Minister is offering. So if he can promise me that he will also talk to the next of kin about what they need and where we could do that, and come to the Chamber with a letter, I am reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u46	Of course, we're talking to next of kin. We have done so throughout the run-up to the multiannual agenda. So that's what we're really doing. There are two specific questions on the table now. One is from Mrs Voortman, who says: look on the basis, for example, of complaints that have been made about how the government deals with victims of serious crimes or an image that we can learn from. I find that interesting to discuss with the Ombudsman. Your question is much more about individual cases, where existing or new victims and next of kin face, and whether we can stand next to them and give them the help they need in such cases, even when it comes to handling practical issues. That's what I want to look at with Victim Help The Netherlands. And of course, if next of kin indicate "we run into this, these are our good experiences with Victim Help, but we might have just expected a little more support," then we can take advantage of that. The third major issue is damage. The events, however bad they may be, are no longer reversed, so the least you can do is make sure that victims and relatives are compensated for the damage and can tell stories on the perpetrator or, where that is not possible, receive compensation from the damages fund. A number of things are being done for that. Those are described in the letter. I do not know if Mr Van Nispen asked for this, but there has been some question: what can you do to work with some sort of clapping construction on the more complex issues that we are talking about here? That's what I'm saying in the letter that we're interested in investigating. That is quite complicated, because that is at the crossroads of punishment and civil, but I think I can come back to that before the summer. Mrs Van Toorenburg raised a point that was mentioned in the book or in the pamphlet of the book: what is the situation with the creation of a fund for survivors of victims of violence abroad? That's outside the safety net right now. I'd like to look at the implications of that. That is why I asked the compensation fund to advise me on both the fundamental and the practical aspects of a fund for survivors of violent crimes abroad. In practical terms, you can imagine, but there is also a question of principle. The compensation fund is now limited to crimes on Dutch territory in the sense that the Dutch State has failed in its safety care and therefore bears an additional responsibility. I note that this is at odds with the obligation of care that the Dutch government always has for victims, but I am happy to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u47	That seems to me to be a good commitment, but the question is how, what and when. In my view, this separation of principles is not necessarily there, because we also have a sort of self-sufficient victim policy. We are doing all kinds of things that have nothing to do with the principle of responsibility, but simply because we think that is decent. So I see that dilemma less myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u48	I'm in a good mood. Otherwise, I would not have included it in the multiannual intake, but I do think I should outline the consequences of crossing that bridge. There is a fundamental aspect to this, namely that the Dutch government has said: where we have failed, we do not find it strange that we, as a community, should make a contribution to this. That is different when it comes to other governments that have failed in their security policy. The second thing that plays a role is that the damages fund comes around the corner where damage cannot be recovered from perpetrators. We have a good view of this at some point in the Dutch legal system. This raises the practical question of victims and relatives of crime abroad. A number of questions really need to be answered before I can come your way with a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u49	That is all right, but whether you call it a fund, a financial concession or other; the broad appeal of the Chamber is to get it right, because some embassies do provide help and others do not. Or you could do it in a legal aid form. That's still shape-free. The question is, how long will we be able to give victims' families an idea of what proposals the cabinet is going to make? Then we're back to our move. I do need some kind of timeline because it's so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr. Chairman. I can imagine. I can assure you that in the second half of this year, on the basis of the information I receive from the compensation fund and the questions I have asked them, I will be able to come your way with a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. An additional question in this connection is Mr Van Nispen's question: what is the situation with regard to the support of victims and relatives abroad? There, it is true, Foreign Affairs has an important role to play in providing consular assistance. This concerns informing family members, asking for the release of the body, checking the state of the police investigation and facilitating the adoption report on repatriation. Embassies often do very good work, although I understand very well that there are sometimes frustrations among relatives and victims. This has to do with the fact that Dutch diplomats, who work at these embassies, sometimes find it difficult to get through. With one country, that goes more smoothly than with the other. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of other questions, and I shall begin with a question of principle from Mrs Helder. Her question about the two-phase process was echoed by a number of others. There is indeed a rather thick report on this issue. In the past, before my time, it has been proposed to try that at the court of Amsterdam, but they did not find a suitable case there. But the conclusion of that report was as follows: if you wanted to do that, it would mean an incredible amount for the taxation of the judiciary and for the lead times in the criminal proceedings. And that, of course, is not always in the interests of victims. I myself am rather hesitant to have it examined again, because there is already a rather extensive investigation. Quite specifically, I have made a commitment that I will pick out that part again in the context of tbs and refusing observandi. Because, of course, you can also see that before then suspects are still not guilty because there has been no court ruling, for example those who do not want to participate in the investigation at the Pieter Baan Centrum, a kind of two-stage rocket might offer something of a relief. Mr Wolfsen also argued for this in his letter to the Upper House at the time. I am looking into that and can inform you about it later this year. A tripartite system is, of course, also such a fundamental revision of our criminal proceedings. We are once again holding the Code of Criminal Procedure very critically under review, but a tripartite structure is not part of that. Maybe sometimes you should stay very close to the way you do it here and see where improvements are possible instead of making a very fundamental system change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u53	That point of the two-stage process was indeed raised by various groups. But I want to focus on what the Secretary of State is saying right now. I think he said that he wants this to be dealt with when dealing with a law; I have just lost the name of the law. What's he saying here? He says, "I'm gonna check it out there?" Or does he say... no, let the minister talk about his own words. What exactly did he promise here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u54	My exact commitment is as follows. When dealing with the Forensic Care Act and, in my view, a short time ago when dealing with the budget of justice in the Chamber in response to a question put by Mrs Van Toorenburg, I indicated that in those cases where there is a refusal of observation and where there is a need to investigate a possible disorder underlying the commission of a particular fact, we are now running into the fact that in half of the cases suspects do not want to cooperate, which may lead to judges not imposing any TBs where this might have been the best measure. It was then said in the political debate that suspects might not want to participate in the investigation of a disorder because they are afraid to participate in their own condemnation. This could be avoided by first establishing whether there is a criminal offence, then having the discussion about the actual imposition of penalties and whether there should be a combination of a custodial sentence and a treatment in a TBS clinic. I have said that in those specific cases I would like to examine it again because it would solve a problem, namely the problem we are currently experiencing around the refusal of observers. But that is a little narrower than the overall introduction of a two-stage structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u55	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u56	But that doesn't solve the problem that we feel here too, that on the one hand you are victims in this case that parents of someone who was murdered want to give more space, but at the same time you want the suspect, as long as he is still a suspect, to hold a good position. That is the idea behind the two-phase process. You're not gonna fix that with this. So I wonder if the Minister would like to be a little more forthcoming and see if there might be more possibilities for a two-stage process in other situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mrs Voortman is very sharp today, because she is indeed putting her finger on the painful place. What I just described doesn't make sense when it comes to the meeting that victims and suspects have in court, for example when victims talk about what it's done to them. But if you wanted to overcome that, you would have to go to an overall review of your criminal trial based on a two-stage structure. This has been the subject of extensive research, and this also shows that the disadvantages probably do not outweigh the benefits. So at least I'm still very reluctant about that for the moment. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to a number of other issues that have been raised. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the possibilities for area bans and residence bans in order to prevent a confrontation between victim and next of kin. Victims are given the opportunity to say something about the extension of TBs, with the right to speak that we would like to introduce. I think that's a first good step. Furthermore, the enforcement of penalties also takes into account the interests of victims in other ways, for example through restrictions imposed on the granting of leave. Also on 1 January this year, the Long-Term Supervision Act entered into force, which allows judges to impose more bans on areas. In practice, the judge will always consider the impact of a removal obligation and the impact on victims. The cases we're talking about today are very impactful crimes. They are crimes of the toughest kind, but ultimately, of course, it is always the judge who will have to make that assessment in specific cases. But more legal possibilities have arisen. Mr Groothuizen asked why victims of international crime are not entitled to free legal aid. The Netherlands has actively assigned a role to prosecute international crimes where necessary and possible. By assuming this role, the Netherlands also bears the responsibility to enable these victims to attend the criminal proceedings. The right to free legal aid now applies only to victims of offences of a certain seriousness committed in the Netherlands. International crimes are generally cases committed abroad. However, there is a general possibility in the Netherlands of legal aid for victims of international crime who are subject to an application based on carrying capacity. If there is insufficient capacity, the victims are eligible for subsidised legal aid. At the moment, the Ministry of Justice and Security is investigating with interested parties, such as the national parish, what additional possibilities can be created. Before the summer, Mr Groothuizen can be informed of this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Voortman's question about recovery law. I think that's useful. We are committed to alternative forms of dispute resolution. That, I think, is no different than a tripartite system. You're actually trying to do something outside of court. This can sometimes help in very specific cases, sometimes in the run-up to a case, but when it comes to recovery sometimes after and also for a long time after a conviction has taken place. I expect to be able to tell you more about alternative forms of dispute resolution before the summer, at least with money released from the budget. Following a motion, there are possibilities for mediation in criminal law. Mr. Chairman. And finally, here's the thing. I brought some of the association's suggestions from the book. Some of them are fully committed, and that's what we're going to do. With regard to others, we have a positive approach, but it really requires further research in order to get them going. There is one issue that has not been addressed in the letter on victim care, namely the call to increase the maximum sentence for juvenile detention. I heard Mrs Van Toorenburg but also Mr Van Oosten asking whether we can not honour them. I'm a little hesitant about that right now. This has to do with the very recent report by the RSJ, which also says a few things about juvenile criminal law and which may go a bit in the opposite direction. In this report, the RSJ refers to the penalties imposed on young people, including the custodial penalty for entering juvenile prisons and youth interns. I see Mr van Oosten's point that it sometimes has a structuring effect, but we also see that meetings in these institutions with like-minded people do not always have a good effect on these young people. In fact, I think it is too early to take a final position on this in this debate. I would like to come to a final position later this year with the suggestions made by your Chamber, but I would also like to take a close look at what the report says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u58	Wouldn't there really be any reason, also given the Minister's hesitation, to reconsider what added value such an extension doesn't necessarily double, as far as I am concerned, the youth detention for a safer Netherlands? If I am not mistaken, the RSJ's report on which the Minister is speaking says that the age limit for qualifying for youth detention should be increased. This is a very different issue, which I am not very enthusiastic about, but it is about how we can ensure that we give these young people the best insight into something else of a future. So let's look into that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u59	I'd love to take that with me. Mr Van Oosten has a point to make when he says that the RSJ says something else. The idea that the RSJ wants to increase that age is that for children aged 13 or 14 years, who are still under juvenile justice, prison sentences or custodial sentences sometimes also a bit tight. They don't always have a positive effect. That says something about the effectiveness of custodial sentences in that target group. I'd like to take that with me. I share Mr Van Oosten's scepticism. It was also my first impression when reading the report. Now there is a specific question on the table that goes exactly the other way: make it longer. Double it if necessary, is the suggestion of the association. I'm not ready for that either. I have not yet decided on a definitive position on this issue. I would also like to take this into account in view of the target group, because we are really looking at youth before I say in this Chamber: let us turn left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u60	I'm very happy about that in itself. But then I'm very practical with the question of what "I'm taking that with me" means. I've visited several juvenile prisons. I do not dare pretend to be a complete expert in this area, but I do see the kind of young people who are locked up. I've gone a little bit into their backgrounds and think: they go to school there, they have something of regularity, the light goes out at night and they know they have to get up in the morning. Let's do the best we can to give these kids a view of a normal life. That is why I ask the Minister to examine it carefully and thoroughly. Otherwise, I might ask the Court to give a ruling on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u61	I want to examine it carefully and thoroughly, where for me the key is the effectiveness of detention sentences for young people. There's two ways to do that. On the one hand, you can reason that it gives them structure and regularity, which brings them back into line. On the other hand, at an age when they still have to form, you get young people out of society at a time when they need to get education, build a network and take the first steps in their adult life. That's the other side of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u63	And what kind of interventions are helping to prevent these young people from repeating themselves? What sanctions may be detention, but also other sanctions will ensure that they learn from their mistakes as best they can, and get a second chance at a young age?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u64	Agreed. An investigation could go either way. I fully acknowledge that. I would like to be able to rely on the research to see what added value a possible extension can have for giving those young people a view of a normal life. And what added value can a possible extension have for contributing to a safer Netherlands? I can assume that this is part of the investigation promised by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u65	A brief reaction. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u66	I'm gonna take a look at that. There is also a lot of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u67	But I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u68	Okay, yeah. That is what Mr Van Oosten wants to hear: yes, I am taking it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u69	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u70	Well, Mr. Chairman, let's talk about the investigation. There are a lot of reports and investigations. I would like to look into this very carefully in order to arrive at a good position. Maybe that'll take a few more conversations with people. Perhaps that would also require additional research.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u71	So this subject comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u72	Sooner or later, you want a letter with a clear position on this issue, which does not end the route that Mr Van Oosten outlined as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mrs Van Toorenburg, this is the last interruption. You have interrupted most of them, both in the first term of the Chamber and in the first term of the Minister. I would like to offer you this opportunity now, but I would also ask the Minister to go to a conclusion so that we can switch to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u74	I would like to ask the Minister, above all, to take with him how important it may be that a young person is stuck longer. It is not for nothing that we, as a CDA, argued for this on the basis of research a few years ago. It was young people who were in prison for a longer period of time who relapsed less. That is why I came to this decision after six years of youth facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u75	I'm gonna step in anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u76	If that aspect can be taken, maybe we'll get somewhere. It was also the reason why the law was offered to the Chamber at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u77	This has to do with this subject, but it comes back more often. I understand that there will be a general discussion on 5 April on this particular issue. So I would suggest that the Minister continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr President, that can be very briefly, because the answer towards Mrs Van Toorenburg is simply: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'm at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u81	Thank you. Then we'll go to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr. Chairman. It is an important debate, in which the Minister has indicated that he has taken up various issues and has already taken them up. I'm talking about the right to speak, the damage story, the fund and the protection on return. However, there are three aspects on which I would like to have a ruling from the Chamber today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent legislation has given victims and survivors an increasingly important place;]] [[Whereas the implementation of these laws and regulations is of great practical importance for victims and survivors;]] [[noting that the enforcement of laws and regulations designed to protect and improve the treatment of victims and survivors plays a crucial role in this respect;]] [[calls on the Government to pay particular attention to the enforceability of the rights of victims and survivors when reviewing the criminal codes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the event of a person's death, there may be doubts as to whether there is murder or suicide;]] [[Whereas, in some cases, this may lead to a great deal of unrest and uncertainty for survivors, especially if survivors have never received signals of possible suicide or if someone has died in suspicious circumstances;]] [[whereas this doubt can be removed in the case of next of kin by having another coroner look at the case as a second opinion;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how a second opinion of another prosecutor or other coroner can best be formed in cases where there is doubt between murder or suicide, and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many measures have been taken or are about to be taken to improve the situation of victims' survivors;]] [[noting that in the period after hearing the terrible news, much comes to relatives;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for public authorities or companies to show no understanding or to show little help towards survivors;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the establishment of an ombudsman for victims' survivors, who can assist them in cases of formalistic and unreasonable action by bodies and companies, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33552-45]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33552-46]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33552-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for the answers to the questions. I agree with him that a tripartite system and a two-stage criminal trial are fundamental rebuttals of our criminal proceedings. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but I have noted in my first term of office that I think the Minister also shares this fact that we have now found ourselves in a field of tension between an innocent suspect to the contrary, and the full exercise of the rights of victims. Anyway, let us continue to discuss this on several occasions. What I do regret is the issue of the copy of a file. I'm not an opponent of a second opinion by a district attorney, but I'm also not an opponent of a second opinion. I can see that, but frankly I don't see anything in a second opinion of another coroner, at least nothing yet. We have received reports on which there is another cabinet response, also on behalf of the VWS Minister, on the way in which the autopsy is arranged here. I am lucky to speak regularly with Mr. Frank van de Goot, who is now familiar with the murder or suicide programme? He has also made some very critical comments. It would be a good thing if it were to be discussed in the context of the implementation of a motion, if Mr Van de Goot's expertise could be sought. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mr. Chairman. In the last ten or twenty years, a lot has been achieved for the next of kin, the victims, the parents of whom a child has been murdered. But in the coming years too, we will continue to fight hard to ensure that the issues that still need to be improved are actually dealt with. The Minister has made a number of important commitments here today about, for example, digital information and that window. He has also made a commitment that he will come forward with a letter this autumn on how to better accommodate the parents of a child murdered abroad. I really think that's necessary, but I also understand how you want to look at how you do it. I am therefore not going to table a motion now, but I am ready to do so at any time. Mr. Chairman. This is a debate that is going to be continued, not only today but also at a later date, because the parents sitting in the gallery will unfortunately not be the last parents. This means that this is a subject that we will have to put back on the political agenda regularly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought it was an important and valuable debate. I also had a few motions ready, but on second thought I will not table them. On the one hand, I think that the nature of the debate is somewhat less suitable and, on the other hand, the Minister has made some important commitments. As far as mediation is concerned, the Minister has indicated that he will come forward with proposals before the summer. As regards the action of the government towards victims, the Minister indicated that he would discuss with the National Ombudsman whether he could play a role in this by looking at concrete cases and what might be good solutions. I thank him for those commitments. The Minister was right to point out a very extensive investigation into the two-stage model. He also referred to the Forensic Care Act. I thought that was a little limited and I would therefore like to ask him whether he would like to consult with victim organisations, the Dutch barristers and the judiciary on the advantages and disadvantages of the two-stage model, so that we can take that point a step further. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u88	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you, Mr President. We are faced with a minister who, as far as I am concerned, has shown that he has a heart for the victims and that he has a heart for the next of kin during this debate. His task may not be the most grateful task in the cabinet. It is very grateful to be committed to these people, but at the same time it is always very poignant to have to go into the horrible stories behind these situations. I had also prepared a motion, but I do not submit it, because I agree with Mrs Voortman that it does not fit here. Moreover, I have received a very clear commitment from the Minister. I asked for attention to be given to the association's plea for a further extension of the juvenile detention. I have a feeling of my own, but I do agree with the Minister that we need to know what we are getting at. What could the consequences be? The Minister has agreed to just investigate it. I would ask the Minister to confirm that this is really going to be an investigation and not a "I'm taking it with me." Let it be a study to see whether it can be extended, what contribution it can make to the development and development potential of these young people and what contribution it can make to a safer Netherlands. I just want to know when I can expect that investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u90	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u91	It was a debate on a very difficult subject, but it is reality, and that is why we must not avoid it. I think that the Minister has said some good things, for example about victims of violence abroad. I await that with great interest. He also said good things about the possibilities of getting compensation for the damage. The minister mentioned the clapping construction, something we talked about earlier. I had not prepared a motion unlike other colleagues, and that has to do with the fact that that motion is already there. That is the motion of the SP from December 2016. We've been waiting a long time for a letter. I went into this debate very disappointed because I did not like the letter from the Minister last night. The Minister said: there is a great deal of restraint in the Public Prosecutor's Office when it comes to providing the investigation file. We, not only me, but many other colleagues, and especially the people who are involved, the relatives, say: there is a legitimate interest in having a file examined, because the public prosecutor may also be wrong. They're exceptions, but it happens. That proves the things that matter. This is very important for the sake of mourning and for the sake of truth finding. I hope, therefore, that the Minister will be aware of the progress that has been made and that I can see room for discussion with the lawyers and indeed Mr Van de Goot. It's a good thing the D.A. is doing that, but I'd also like to ask the Minister to do that. I would like to hear from the Minister when he will again inform the Chamber on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u92	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Finally, Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions. I have heard and tasted a great deal of unity in the debate today. I think that everyone actually agrees on the importance of dealing carefully with the rights and position of victims and survivors. That's a win, I think. Special thanks to the Minister for the commitment to clarify the position of victims of international crime before the summer. It's a bit of a side theme, but it's also an important theme, because it's essentially the same: how do you deal with people who already have a very hard time because of very bad things they've been through? Mr. Chairman. Mrs Helder and Mrs Voortman, for example, have rightly drawn attention to the balance in criminal law. A criminal trial must strike a balance between the interests of the survivors, of the victims, but also of the suspect, who must, indeed, be found guilty and whether he is the one who caused that suffering. I think that's actually something that everyone, including the next of kin, understands very well. Essentially, it is always about striking a good balance. It will have to be demonstrated in practice in particular. It is mainly up to the professionals to continue to pursue this in practice. I think it is therefore very useful that people have been on top of that. Special thanks also go to the people sitting in the public gallery who have been following this issue for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I would now like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u95	Mr. President, there were three motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u96	Yes, from Mrs Van Toorenburg, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mr. President, excuse me, but I'm just getting some papers. That's why it takes me a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u98	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u99	Mr President, I would like to comment on the three motions that have been tabled, but a number of questions have also been raised, starting with the questions put by Mrs Helder and Mr Van Nispen. If we are going to look at the possibilities of asking for a second opinion and to take seriously the question and legitimate concerns that victims and relatives sometimes have, can we also talk to some outsiders about this? In concrete terms, the name Van de Goot was mentioned. I'll do that. It was asked when a response could be expected. It'll be around the summer. Then you can see if we should have further discussion on this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Voortman was still trying to look at an opportunity to seduce the Minister further into looking at a two-phase model. When I talk to judges, I don't wear blinders. When judges say they're gonna like it, or when this kind of thing comes up at conferences and meetings, I'm okay with talking about it. It's not taboo. But there is really solid research that shows that the benefits of the two-phase process do not automatically outweigh the way we regulated it in the Netherlands. In countries where they have such a two-stage process, such as England and Wales, the position of victims is regulated in a very different way. They have a much less solid position in procedural law than in the Netherlands. So I'd like to talk about it, but you shouldn't expect me to come back with a new letter, a new report or a new investigation into the Chamber. Because we too can only use our energy in one way. I really do not see any reason at the moment to look more broadly at the two-phase structure around tbs. Mr Van Oosten asked for a clear commitment that I would seriously look at and investigate youth detention. Yes. What you want from me is that in the second half of the year I have a good position on how we deal with youth detention, a response to the RSJ report and a response to this issue as well. I'm going to promise you that. What I want to do is to look at what we know from research and, if there are any additional questions, to investigate them further. I hope I'm not gonna be able to do this hand-picking... I can see that I'm not gonna be able to do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u100	Short, Mr. Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u101	Well, do you know what it is? I think that the Minister and I are in agreement, but I would really like to have confirmation that the investigation also really sees the question of whether renewal is what I am talking about: an extension of the juvenile detention can contribute to a safer Netherlands and give some insight into a normal life for the youth. Because my visit to those prisons taught me that's really necessary. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u102	You made your point, Mr. Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u103	You want an answer to that question, and I want an answer to that. My only point is that there may also be investigations that are already giving a clear answer. Mrs Van Toorenburg, for example, cited an investigation. Then I don't think we're waiting for a repeat of what's already there. You just want an answer to your question and that's what you're gonna get.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u104	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u106	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u107	...the motions filed. The Van Toorenburg motion in part No. 45 is in fact in line with what I have already mentioned and so I can take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u108	I'll see if anyone has any objection to taking over the Van Toorenburg motion in part No. 45. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 46 refers to "for the summer." If I get the room to make it around the summer, so just before the summer recess, and if we don't make it right after, if I can interpret her like that, then I can take over that motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u110	I hear you saying something, but you can say it in the microphone. Then it is also in the Acts, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u111	I'm sure the Minister can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u112	Then... mrs. brighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u113	I do object to taking over now, because it is simply a commitment from the Minister to Mr Van Nispen and also a little to the undersigned. He talks with the experts, he even mentions the experts and comes with a letter before the summer. "Around the summer," he said. Anyway, it's all right, but I think I've already heard it as a commitment. If we follow the list we received from the chairman, it is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u114	Then I'll look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u115	If there is any objection to taking over, I would also like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u116	Then we'll just vote on it. Then we go to the third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr. Chairman. There must be one point on which I am going to disappoint Mrs Van Toorenburg today. Then that's that I'm going to have her motion in part no. 47 go dissuade. She asked to see if it would be appropriate to set up an ombudsman next to the next of kin. I just don't think that's the role of an ombudsman. The Ombudsman deals with complaints. I have promised Mrs Voortman that, on the basis of everything he and his people have seen, I would like to see whether there is any improvement in the treatment of next of kin. I think we agree on the aim of putting someone next to their relatives who can help them, but I do not think that is the specific role of the Ombudsman. This is much more in line with the work that Victim Aid Netherlands does. I promised I'd take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u118	Thank you. I think you've gone through the motions. Is that right? Then I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-14-tweedekamer-7.u119	We will vote on the motions next week. I would like to thank Members of Parliament, but also in particular the parents in the public gallery. I've tried to read some stories in between, and I wish you all the best.
