ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u1	I shall reopen the sitting and the debate on the continuation of the first term of office at... Hatchie! At the General Financial Reviews. Well, that came out anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan. Oh, no, Mr. Postema! I'm so freaked out by the sneeze just now. Go ahead, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr President, as long as that ends well. All health, by the way, and the congratulations to Mr Wever for the fine first speech. Mr. Chairman. Several details can be found on this year's Millions Note. He's a narrow builder. And that doesn't mean the Minister or the Secretary of State, even if that's true. No, the Millions Note itself is remarkably thin this year. A skinny 70 pages compared to 105 last year. And then the pages 10, 12 and 64 are completely empty. Now quantity is not always a guarantee of quality, but in this case the government seems to have a real lack of dust. And there are also issues missing in this Millions note, in particular a sound risk analysis and associated management measures. Finally, we are missing the usual capita selecta, which sets out important issues and trends for budgetary policy. I will briefly discuss each of these omissions and use these considerations to find out more about the two directors than what they wanted to serve us with with the Millions Note. I'll start with the lack of dust. The government obviously doesn't have much to say this year. The views of the coalition agreement Trust in the future seems to have had a cold shower by now. Yes, climate change, ageing, technological developments, globalisation and financial risks are described as a single trend. But the answers to this question, and only then will it be really interesting, are largely absent. We are waiting for a credible implementation of the climate agreement. Labour market legislation to respond to the need for good work, the ageing population and the fight against wrong flex is stalling. No pension agreement has yet been reached. Effective measures to solve the large shortage on the housing market and to allow good living for all incomes remain out. In Europe, the government only says what shouldn't happen, and then you'll be out of touch. And for the banks, both brick and mortar and virtual banks, the shadow banks and the cryptobanks, the government still has no agenda. So that's skinny, very skinny. Mr. Chairman. At the request of my group, the Millions Note since 2013 contains a comprehensive risk analysis and overview of its management measures. And that was also necessary, because the risk profile of state finances was bad at the time. The prudent financial policy of the previous Finance Ministers at the time of the crisis, both from CDA and twice from PvdA House, has improved this profile in terms of managing the regular financing deficit and public debt. However, off-balance obligations have increased considerably in those years, and this is still the case today. I am referring in particular to the enormous amount of guarantees and guarantees provided and the uncertainty as to the extent to which they will be used. Why, I ask the Minister, did he choose to trade this important chapter in the present Millions Note for a poor paragraph? What is his policy on controlling these risks? As next omission, this Millions note does not contain a capita selecta. For example, the previous note provided an overview of national policies to manage globalisation, an exposé on the role of the market and government in achieving the climate objectives and an inspiring contribution on the insights from the behavioural sciences, the present Millions note lacks depth and perspective. I therefore give the directors a number of potential capita selecta. What about the lessons from the crisis, now that we're a decade away? Coen Teulings, the former director of the Central Planning Bureau, is not very positive about this. In his recent book "On the Dikes" - ten years after the outbreak of the financial crisis, he stated that the problems of the 1930s reappeared in a slightly different form: overly restrictive fiscal policies, protectionism, the erosion of multilateral organizations and the emergence of populism on the political front. What are the main lessons of the crisis for the Minister and how do we see in his policy that he has actually taken these lessons to heart? Is the Minister prepared to explain this in a comprehensive letter to the First Chamber before the end of this term of office? This is related to the capitum selection on the future of the European Stability and Growth Pact. The Minister, like his predecessors, is usually the first to remind colleagues in Europe of the need for budgetary discipline, but ignores the fact that there is great discontent about the Pact and that there is a review. Indeed, in recent years there has been an increasingly extensive set of sometimes contradictory rules within the SGP, which are increasingly unworkable. In addition, my group notes that the important automatic stabilisers incorporated into our trendary fiscal policy are limited by the SGP when it comes to their operation. A motion by my colleague Klaas de Vries, adopted by this Chamber in 2013, already called on the government to consider the harmful effects of this standardisation on the fight against unemployment. As a result, a European unemployment standard of up to 5% has also been advocated. After all, finance is not an end, it is a means of achieving good. In this context, the proposals of the European Budget Committee are interesting. This independent consultative body of the European Commission advocates a public debt target as we know it, in combination with debt securities, and that is new debt securities, a limit on the growth rate of nominal primary government expenditure. In doing so, the limit is based on potential growth, so that the rule has a significantly more stabilising effect than the current balance rule. Indeed, actual growth above potential leads to a decrease in primary public expenditure as part of GDP, while temporarily lower growth results in an increase in this expenditure item as part of GDP. This strengthens the automatic stabilisers rather than weakens them. Can the Minister give an appreciation of this thought? In contrast to the European Committee on Budgets, my group attaches great importance to the sustainability balance and the corresponding European medium-term objective for the structural balance. This balance has developed favourably in recent years as a result of the reforms of the previous government. However, the most recent sustainability estimate shows that the Netherlands suddenly has a sustainability deficit. That forecast takes into account what was agreed in the government agreement of Rutte III Cabinet, but does not yet take account of the decision to stop gas extraction in the long term. Why not and when will the Minister take the financial effects of this, as such courageous, decision into account in his long-term planning? Does the Minister therefore include the financial commitment needed to enable the massive reinforcement operation in Groningen? This brings us to another chapter that the government could have taken into account and that we should have spent. After all, care expenditure and ageing are an important factor in the sustainability balance. College Wever also pointed that out in his maiden speech. These are not issues to win the elections, but we can expect the Minister of Finance to encourage his colleagues from VWS to develop a sound vision of this issue. The problem is obvious. In 2019, care is not only the largest but also the fastest growing expenditure item from collective resources. This is translated into, among other things, a sharp increase in the health insurance premium for citizens. The health insurance companies came this month with a premium increase of between €50 and €100 per year. For the large insurers, this is an increase of about 7.5%. Many collective agreements have yet to be concluded this year, but there will be quite a few of them which do not increase by one third of this percentage on an annual basis. This means that healthcare expenditure is increasingly affecting our income, as an autonomous development which is not based on an integral government policy. Where there is, or should be, a clear policy choice is to ensure accessibility and quality of care. And that is precisely what makes this such an important and complex issue: how can we achieve a responsible level of healthcare expenditure within the harsh framework conditions of quality and accessibility? Which choices should then be made? We expect more guidance from the government on this issue than just a set of short-term agreements with the various sectors of care. Can the Minister indicate how the cabinet intends to deal with this longer term issue, so that everyone can be sure and remain of the necessary care? And then there is the question of human capital, that undervalued asset that does not appear on the state balance sheet. The government insists that it invests in education. In the Millions note, she even suggests a trend break in this respect, but that is a mistake. On the contrary, education expenditure remained remarkably stable at the time of the crisis and has been rising since 2015. In doing so, the government continues the course of the previous cabinet, but with three differences. The first difference is that Rutte III makes a lot of noise about the extra expenditure on education. Despite the fact that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, under considerably more difficult circumstances, is the trend, the government pretends that it is now making a great commitment to education. Unfortunately, this is not the case, as we exchanged extensively with the Minister of Finance last year during the General Financial Reviews. The cabinet always shields by EUR 1.9 billion extra, but in 2019 only EUR 831 million is actually earmarked for education. That's less than half. Of the 831 million in additional expenditure, 646 million, almost four fifths, go to primary education. That's actually a nice gift from the previous cabinet. There is therefore little investment in secondary education, secondary education, higher vocational education, university education and special education. And that 646 million for the p.o. is far from enough to bring salaries in primary education close to those in secondary education, let alone those in vocational education and higher education. Apparently the reasoning is: the lower the level of education, the lower the salaries. The Labour Party is opposed to that. Teachers' commitment to foundational education is truly fundamental and the challenge is great. It is precisely these teachers who have to be well rewarded for what they do for our children on a daily basis. If there is another new WNT, then this should be a Law norming top performance for the teachers, with a lower limit. And that also applies to the employees in the care and the agents on the street. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to take up this challenge on behalf of the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. During last year's General Financial Reviews, the Labour Party Group pointed out two measures in the OCW budget that are completely contrary to the government's commitment to invest in education. Firstly, the government jointly reduces the efficiency of all sectors of education, i.e. from primary education to higher education, to as much as EUR 183 million per year. The government seems to have no idea what this efficiency gain should be. It is therefore an uncircumcised austerity in education, and so large, so broad and so visionless that this should be described as a licence of inability for the Rutte III cabinet. This inability is also apparent from the actions of the Minister of Finance in this regard. In December last year, a motion was adopted in this Chamber calling on the government to consider whether the efficiency reduction in education could be mitigated and preferably reversed. That was a fair request, not entirely coincidentally addressed during the AFB primarily to the Minister of Finance, so that a solution could be found from the entire state budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u4	After the speaker's praise for the educational achievements of the previous cabinet, it might also be appropriate for him to recognise that part of the financial problem to which he refers has to do with a problem left by the previous cabinet on the same budget, in particular the higher education budget, in the order of about EUR 500 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u5	The previous cabinet had to be outgoing for a long time, because the formation of the new cabinet was very long, historically long. During that period, two issues were discussed in detail. That is what this task is about, and that is what salaries in primary education are about. In both cases, there were clear proposals from the incumbent Demissionary Cabinet to resolve them. This has caused a lot of tension, because it went through the negotiations for the new cabinet, with the result that one has not been resolved and the other has not been resolved. Mr. Chairman. From the letters of the Minister of Finance following this motion adopted, we deduce that the government is actually rejecting the motion. Can the Minister confirm that? If this is the case, then we do have a problem today. For Parliament is not only the government's controller, but also its principal and principal. Motions adopted must therefore simply be carried out, especially when we are talking about the sparing and well-thought-out motions that usually come from this Chamber. This applies to the Hoekstra motion for a resolution when it comes to the non-bundling of legislative proposals relating to substantially different issues. This applies to the Van Apeldoorn motion on reducing child poverty, as discussed this morning. This applies to the Ganzevoort motion on the social minimum for the Caribbean Netherlands, based on real minimum cost of living. This also applies to the Potema motion adopted in this House last year, which called on the government to mitigate and preferably reverse the reduction in the efficiency of education. We expect an appropriate response from the Minister today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u6	If the reasoning is that a motion should be carried out, then there must be one more in the list. That is the motion on the one-earners submitted to the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u7	I wish I'd realized that sooner. I put him in there. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u8	But putting in isn't helping. Mr Postema asked for implementation. My question would then be: why was that motion not carried out by the previous cabinet? Then the Labour Party was in the cabinet and that motion was accepted by a majority here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u9	Sure. You will always find the Labour Party on your side. If motions have been passed, you must give them a loyal follow-up. That's democracy. As a group, we are not part of the cabinet, and in that sense the wrong person to address. Mr. Chairman. A second measure that we saw in the Millions Note last year is the increase in interest rates on the study advance. This unfortunate idea was also widely exchanged with the Minister of Finance during the AFB last year. Onzalig, because the cabinet wanted to make good grace with a limited reduction in tuition fees, but this secretly financed by depositing the account with financially vulnerable students. A call from my group during last year's AFB and again during the examination of the legislative proposal Reduced legal tuition received a lot of support in this Chamber, but unfortunately just not enough for a majority. In the meantime, the members of the party of Minister Hoekstra, the CDA, have taken up our initiative and, at the conference on 3 November last, called on their own directors to resume negotiations with the coalition partners on this brutal increase in student loan interest rates. So we now know that the CDA supports us in this, and that gives the citizens courage. If the Minister is prepared to withdraw the proposed increase in interest rates on the study advance, we ask him today. A final chapter that certainly would not have been wrong in the Millions' Note concerns the way in which our country's business is always able to get the longest out of the allocation of resources, at the expense of public spending on education, care and security. Election promises to citizens are consistently underfunded when it comes to it, while business is getting more and more than promised. And these deviations between election programmes and government agreement even prove to be detrimental to economic growth. So there is no underlying reason for this either. This was clearly exposed by Wimar Bolhuis in his dissertation From word to agreement, which he successfully defended at Leiden University a few weeks ago. Why is the government doing this, my group wonders. What exactly do we all think of the 'business package', as included in the budgetary overview of the Rutte III coalition agreement? This package means that net and structurally more than EUR 3.3 billion extra is available to business, by far the largest budgetary decision of this cabinet. A decision, it has already been recalled, which does not come back in any electoral programme in this way, and which is listed as an annex in a coalition agreement at once. However, we do not see this package as such anywhere in the national budget. Yeah, the parts, of course, but not as a package. It is an envelope which the Prime Minister only takes out of the pocket when it is in danger of being nibbled, as with the far too late decision to put the unfortunate plans for dividend taxation into the bulk waste. The Prime Minister was painfully sailing, but didn't hesitate to come up with new claims for "his" business. After all, an envelope of content was promised and the multinationals did not hesitate to claim it in the Catshuis last month. A request from the House of Representatives to drive directly to the Binnenhof to speak with the Parliament was rejected by the CEOs. It is high time these opaque practices were brought to an end: state finances were managed through the Millions' Note and the Empire Budget, not through opaque and rigid envelopes for business friends. Mr. Chairman. The Note on the state of the country's finances which Minister De Master offered to the States General on 18 September 1906 and which is considered the first Millions note, counted 8 pages. In that sense, my discomfort about the size of the first Millions note from the Rutte III cabinet does not seem necessary. In 1906, however, many things were thinner, such as the people, their wallet and also the thread on which life hung. Our time is complex and dynamic, challenging and also threatening, a time of reorientation and redesign. That requires a cabinet with vision. A vision that will then be translated into concrete policy, into legislative proposals that will end up here in the First Chamber. In the first year of Rutte III it has been too quiet, too passive, too thin. We wish the government and our country much more decisively in this respect than the present Millions Note promises us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Postema. And now Mr. Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After rain comes sunshine, acid follows sweet and after suffering comes glad. Fortunately, these old, deep wisdoms also apply to the Dutch economy. From the deep valley of crisis and recession we have finally returned to the pleasant peak of the high economy. Unemployment is low, traffic jams are too long and houses are expensive and expensive. Let us above all try to make the best of it for everyone, helped by the beautiful and rightly praised perspectives offered by the Millions Note. We have had to wait long enough and we must now above all hope that the peak will turn out to be a plateau. Of course it isn't. In addition to the two traditional guarantees of death and taxation, the certainty of sour after sweet is an unpleasant third. The growth forecasts are again somewhat flattened, especially in Germany. Sooner or later we will put this peak experience behind us again, but hopefully with nice memories. Mr. Chairman. Quite normal, by the way, this high-conjuncture is not. High wages, high interest rates, high inflation are usually part of it, but not now. And high confidence in the future is also lacking, at least among a number of Dutch people. That may have to do with the very long ride to the top. Tom Dumoulin's stamina is not awarded to everyone. It is an additional reason to want to learn as much as possible from what has happened to us. Crisis and recession struck exactly when economists began to hope that this would not happen again. A low point of this size and cost we must never want to see again. I would like to invite the Minister of Finance, without prejudice to welcome in our midst and now painted by many kinds of wool, to reflect with his equally welcome Secretary of State in this Chamber on what the deep and long crisis has brought us, as Mr Postema has just done. For example, what does he think of the assessment that the last deep recession has permanently affected the productive capacity of European economies, including those of the Netherlands? Despite the low unemployment rate, both the American and European economies are no less than 10% below the official output expectations of ten years ago. What could be the cause of this structural degradation and what can we learn from it? European fiscal discipline is unabatedly useful and unabated. But where Europe rightly places a lower limit on the budget deficit, it certainly does not impose a ceiling on the budget surplus. Each country is free to operate anti-cyclically to its heart's content, including the Netherlands. If I have anything to reproach the cabinet, in the presence of the Council of State and other observers, it is that it has been tempted to recognize in its own right the ambitions of expenditure which can be at the expense of the Dutch resilience in a new crisis. I asked for attention last year on the same theme. Earlier, this minister seemed to be interested in carrying out a more detailed study of the continued pro-cyclicality of Dutch fiscal policy, reinforced by the Dutch housing market. What has become of that? After all, we are now faced with an unfavourable development in the structural budget deficit, which is only just within the allowed limit, and with a negative sustainability balance. In his written response, the Minister is right to point out that other European countries are doing even worse. But some European countries have shown budgetary surpluses from 3% to 4% in times of high economic conditions. Can the Minister of Finance, particularly the protector of our national stability in the long term, imagine the concern of my group? I hope he gets a good plan from it for next year. Previous recessions have sometimes caught the Netherlands unexpectedly, with the result that both additional spending and additional cuts came at the wrong time. Can the Minister reassure us this time? And does he think that the increasing flexibility of the labour market is going to help or hinder us in an appropriate response to an economic contraction? If the public authorities were to spend more than cyclically appropriate, these additional expenditures would have to be structuralally strengthened read: productivity gains. On this point, too, the D66 Group would like to be reassured. Has the cabinet applied this criterion and, if so, what does it prove? For example, despite the efforts of this cabinet, the R&D budget of the Dutch government is still around 10% lower than the budgets of Scandinavian countries, not to mention some German Länder. The sector which has to lay the foundations for this, higher education, is, on the contrary, financially difficult, partly because of all the structurally low student estimates. Can the Minister promise that this sector will be spared further cuts in the coming years? For some time now, on behalf of my group, I have been asking for the attention of the cabinet to the stagnant productivity figures of the Netherlands. They turned from a radiant post-war crown jewel to a dull breeding gem a long time ago. Improvement remains outstanding and the Minister is not able to explain this in his recent, appreciated response to the Chamber's input on this issue. It should be worth a lot to us to regain our post-war lead. Perhaps the measuring instrument of productivity in our digitized world is fundamentally inadequate, because the blessings of the smartphone....................................................................................................................................................... But then the demand for a better indicator also arises immediately. The D66 group would look forward to continued reports from the cabinet on this important issue and had therefore requested in writing. The Minister has not yet responded to that question; perhaps he would still like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr Rinnooy Kan argues that the lack of productivity growth in the Dutch economy is a problem. Does Mr Rinnooy also consider it a problem that wages in the Netherlands have been lagging behind productivity growth for many years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u13	I find that remarkable, but I find it less of a problem. I would think that from every conceivable perspective productivity growth is a blessing. The Netherlands has excelled in this respect for many years, especially in terms of hourly productivity growth. From that index we were world leaders for many years. I find, with sadness, that it has not been so in recent years. Our productivity growth has actually been at its best for quite some time and we are surrounded by countries with very similar productivity. Of course, there is a relationship, certainly from the economic theory, between productivity and possible wage growth, which should be mutually exclusive. In this sense, additional productivity growth should be beneficial to all those who depend on it. But I am now trying to underline that the causality is in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u14	Mr Rinnooy Kan argued that additional productivity growth should be beneficial to wage developments. We note only that this has not been the case in recent years. Since 2008 or 2006, if it is no longer a matter of time, those wages are lagging behind in productivity growth. But according to many economists, among others according to economists of the Rabobank, causality is partly the other way around: if wages would grow more, it could stimulate further innovation and thus increase productivity. So one could also reverse causality. I would like to ask Mr Rinnooy Kan whether we should not consider this in conjunction with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u15	It's perfectly permissible. But the point of lagging wage increases is exactly the subject of the next paragraph of my speech. So if Mr Van Apeldoorn is still patient, I can give him a fairly complete service on this point. The question I was about to ask was, in fact, whether there might also be part of the explanation for the very modest wage increases in this Dutch high-growth economy. And that is beyond the previous years. It has not occurred since time immemorial that the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, the national economy apostle par excellence, calls for substantial wage increases. The Minister and Mr Van Apeldoorn might object to the fact that in the United States wages are also stagnating dramatically, while productivity is increasing considerably there, although this would, moreover, be painful to underline our Dutch productivity concerns. Or should the cause of the lower wages be sought in a combination of immigration from Europe, outsourcing to Asia and flexibilisation at home, perhaps even further supported by a trade union movement that seems to have lost influence? Or is that another explanation? Is the Dutch unemployment perhaps higher than it seems? I was told that young part-time professionals, doctors, teachers, would like to work more, but this is hampered by logistical complexity. Can the Minister deny those rumors or investigate them? McKinsey recently calculated that labour market participation by Dutch women at European top level could generate an additional EUR 100 billion of GDP. On the participation side, in addition to productivity, the second welfare factor, there is still something to gain. The absence of higher wages and higher business investment.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And the list isn't complete yet. Because even if there is no higher interest rate, exorbitant price increases in the housing market are free to go. That's nice for owners, but fatal for newcomers. Does the Minister see opportunities for an additional hand-out in the direction of all those who are unable to benefit from a real-estate check-out with their parents, perhaps by prolonging the role of the National Mortgage Guarantee? Young families looking for affordable living space are currently having a very difficult time. The cabinet is going to broaden the rules on mortgage lending again, but the much-needed expansion of the housing stock is becoming extremely slow. No, Mr President, this is not an ordinary high-conjuncture, and that calls for an explanation. Is this, after all, a persistent nervousness on the basis of citizens and businesses about what the near future will bring them? Well, there are reasons for that. These General Financial Reviews take place against a restless background, in Europe and beyond. The result of the recent American elections did not remove that unrest, quite the contrary. Unfortunately, strong polarisation has become a global phenomenon, even in Europe and the Netherlands. The Netherlands has much to lose as an international model of cohesion and solidarity. Fighting for that tradition should be an all-inclusive theme of cabinet policy. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group would like to invite the Minister to take the opportunity to share his perspective on Europe with this Chamber once again, in the hope that the Prime Minister's conversion to genuinely convinced European has also taken part in him. It is precisely from his ministry that there is the necessary work to be done, even if it was only in addressing the major European challenges of the moment. Recently, this Chamber has been briefed on the financial basis to be laid for this in the new MFF. This was referred to earlier. A stronger Europe would certainly be worth a great deal to my group. It is not a bad teacher, for example, in agricultural expenditure, but it is not the only one as far as we are concerned. As far as my group is concerned, there is every reason, for example, to increase European revenue by means of a digital sales tax or a CO levy and to make it possible to benefit from core efforts in areas such as sustainability, migration, knowledge and security. But the most urgent thing is, of course, Brexit. My group would like to hear from the Minister his current assessment of the ongoing negotiation process. The situation in the United Kingdom as a frightening example of where polarisation can lead. A poor outcome could lead to a loss of 1% to 2% of GDP in the Netherlands, according to the Millions Note. Is the Netherlands logistics ready for this unexpected scenario, for example when it comes to the increased import and export procedures? Does the government recognise the desirability of an emergency law for dual nationality, as will Germany, which will introduce it for compatriots in the United Kingdom who are threatened by Brexit? And how does the cabinet now prepare for the Dutch strategy in post-brexit Europe, if the mostly allergic relationship with the United Kingdom falls away? Is the Hanze coalition formed and brought forward by this Minister after the enlargements that have now been planned near a blocking minority for the relevant European decisions? Is it true that this coalition is a welcome partner for Germany, more than it is for France? Nevertheless, does the cabinet share the view of the D66 Group that the strengthening of the German-French axis is a primary priority for the Netherlands and Europe and how does this translate into our country's European diplomacy, for example in our stance on a possible euro area budget? And then the concerns surrounding Italy are still far from gone. Can the Minister indicate how vulnerable the Netherlands is in a financial crisis that could be provoked by irresponsible Italian budgetary policy? This question applies in particular to the Dutch financial sector, including second-order effects that could arise if Dutch banks would turn out to be dependent on countries in the middle of the Italian line of fire. Was this scenario incorporated in the recent European stress test, which the Dutch banks allegedly would have passed well? The D66 Group has noted with some surprise the apparent willingness of the cabinet to cooperate in reducing the minimum capitalization rate of European banks from 4% to 3%. This willingness should reflect the confidence that the Dutch banks will continue to be able to survive any reasonably foreseeable future crisis in Europe even after that reduction. But has there really been any progress in the comprehensive reduction in the balance sheet, which I drew attention to on behalf of the group last year? And is the bail-in mechanism at the expense of stockholders and bondholders who should be helping an endangered bank now in complete order? Rather, it seems that the financial markets are still counting on a bail-out by European governments in the event of a new banking crisis. Can the Minister reassure us on that point? A stable financial sector is of enormous importance to Europe and one of many examples of a task far beyond national borders. A modest part of this is a European pension provision, the PEPP, which is approaching its Brussels completion. Previously, the cabinet was critical about this, but not unwillingly. Would the Minister explain what the Dutch approach is to the current negotiations and what are the main ingredients for the Netherlands? With him we look forward with great anticipation to the conclusion of the larger task of the new Dutch pension agreement. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of this Minister to the sustainability challenge that Europe has set itself, to which financial instruments can make a substantial contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u16	Do you also think it is a problem, as noted earlier in an interruption debate with Mr Van Kesteren, that the indexation of pensions has not been possible for so long? And if so, do you think that might have to do with the arithmetic rate, which is not the real arithmetic rate? According to the D66 Group, is this also a problem that may need to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u17	As always, I have listened with interest to Mr Van Kesteren's speech. I have the same interest in the forthcoming pension agreement. But I'm not taking an advance on that right now. I'll wait and see, with hope and trust. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of this Minister to the sustainability challenge that Europe has set itself, to which financial instruments can make a substantial contribution. It is regrettable that the Netherlands, unlike other European countries, has not yet tried to introduce a mobility charge. This makes this broad, effective, preferably European CO levy all the more relevant. The D66 Group wonders how the Minister and his Secretary of State assess the sustainability contribution of the current Millions Note, with untapped opportunities for further expansion of high-speed lines and the exorbitant subsidy of electric cars. With all the more tension, my group looks forward to the financial and logistical development of the climate agreement, one of the most important ingredients of this coalition agreement for D66. If the Minister would like to take an advance on this, we are of course very interested in it. Mr. Chairman. Not long ago, in this Chamber, we commemorated one of the great predecessors of this minister, Wim Kok. He was more than anyone aware of the great contributions that can be made to the broad prosperity of our country from the Ministry of Finance, especially in the sense that the Council of State attaches to that concept. The important reform priorities that this cabinet has set itself will often also affect that ministry, from labour market, health care and pensions to the last two, so we would like to await the cabinet's proposals to education, research and innovation. Each of them contributes to the core challenge of seeking a country in which prosperity and well-being can grow sustainably and be divided into solidarity. This is also a country that is part of a strong and united Europe and takes responsibility in a troubled world. The D66 Group looks forward to the contribution of this Minister and his Secretary of State to that process and to their response to our points of attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u18	I have listened to the whole story of Mr Rinnooy Kan, but I would also have liked to hear about what Mr Postema rightly referred to as the largest item or package in the budget in terms of financial size, namely the 3.3 billion which is being spent structurally on the reduction of Vpb, corporation tax. Mr Rinnooy Kan, like Mr Van Kesteren, has spent many years in Dutch business. I was wondering whether, in his experience, based on his feeling, it is necessary to bring corporate tax down in such a way as to keep business strong. Is that the way? Is that necessary to ensure a good locational climate, or was he perhaps also slightly surprised at how quickly the dividend tax was exchanged for this other gift?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u19	Surprised or relieved, I'll leave that qualification in the middle. To underline what Mr Van Kesteren has already argued, I can say that corporate tax is undoubtedly an instrument that works. It works particularly well because it helps the companies on which we are extremely dependent in the Netherlands. He also said that, and rightly so, I think. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the main payers. They notice what this means to them. I am taking an advance on what Mr Van Apeldoorn is going to ask me now, namely how I look at the downward spiral, the race to the bottom and what is more, which can be provoked by it. Let me say straight away that I can very well imagine that risk. At the same time, I think he himself said that we live in a world in which such a competition is given, if not within Europe, because perhaps we could do something about it in our own circle, at least between Europe and the rest of the world. The challenge, I believe, is not to ignore this competition, because in the end private employment is an important source of prosperity for most Dutch people, but to try to combine the task that this entails with the maintenance of a supportive and decent society. That is, I think, what politics should be called upon to do, and that is ultimately what the overall picture of a millions note is supposed to yield. From that overall picture, I see that task well fulfilled and observed for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u20	Mr Rinnooy Kan says that this competition, this tax competition, is a given. I know D66 as a progressive and reformist party. If you now say that there is also a problematic side to this competition, because it can erode the tax revenues of governments worldwide, should we not all come to the conclusion that we might have to limit that competition and that we should think about a way to counter that competition instead of running ahead in the race to the bottom as the cabinet does, which only strengthens that competition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u21	I doubt the one about leading the way. I think the cabinet plays its own role. As a small, open economy, the Netherlands is more sensitive to positive signals or less positive signals it transmits regarding the attractiveness for companies to settle here and contribute to our prosperity. With all due respect for some progressive ability, their ability to direct the rest of the world economy is unfortunately limited. So also driven from that modesty, I would really like to find it in the balance. We must recognise the risk, but accept that it cannot be organized and we must concentrate on complementary policies that can be pursued in the Netherlands under exclusive Dutch responsibility, not only to keep our country prosperous, but also to maintain a decent solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u22	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u23	Finally, on this point. This cabinet had already planned to reduce corporation tax in the government agreement and then in the Millions Note. Mr. Rinnooy Kan just kept a story about why that was necessary. At that time, it was decided not to abolish the dividend tax anymore, which was also a relief from Mr Rinnooy Kan... was then decided to further reduce corporation tax compared to what was in the Millions Note. My question to Mr Rinnooy Kan is whether, in the light of this analysis, he thinks it wise to spend that money released, which is 1.9 billion, on business through an even further reduction in the Vpb.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u24	I can very well imagine that Mr Van Apeldoorn and his party may have other ideas as to where that amount might go, but in the balance of things my party has become convinced that this decision was sensible and well-considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I congratulate Mr Wever on his maiden speech. It's nice to say that here, six weeks after my own maiden speech. It's nice to be able to give you congratulations. Madam President. During the presentation of the Millions note, this minister reflected himself to the Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen, who first reached the South Pole in 1911, and also thanks to his thorough preparation, competitor Robert Scott defeated. The Minister said: "In order to be confident about the future, we need to strengthen our foundations and build reserves now. This 100-year-old lesson from Amundsen takes the cabinet to heart." Mr. Chairman. On that occasion, and even in the presentation of the coalition agreement, the cabinet spoke out loud. "The greenest cabinet ever" and "the highest investment in the public sector ever" But the two biggest drivers of climate problems, road traffic and agriculture, are largely out of the question. Both the Planning Bureau for the Environment and the Centraal Planbureau were critical of the frequent reference in the broad agreement to targets, ambitions, necessary efforts, and possible measures. They were equally critical of the fact that it is unclear what concrete steps are being taken by which parties in what timeframe and how the parties to such agreements are being kept. From the previous contributions I note that these concerns live wider in this Chamber. In response, the cabinet indicated that it would share many of these critical notes, but we, as a group, are at the same time concerned about the lack of direction and perseverance that followed. We have to wait and see, and we are doing so with great tension as to bring about the second round of the climate tables and whether the cabinet will be prepared to take a firmer lead, even in the financial sense, if the proceeds of those tables were to be disappointing and prove insufficient to achieve the climate ambitions. The announced flight tax looks like a drop on the glowing plate, the CO levy has yet to be investigated and many of the other mentioned measures of "the greenest cabinet" ever are, although they are not individually wrong or weird, but small and modest. In fact, the big question is what this will ultimately mean for a better climate and what greater ideal or greater idea is actually behind it. Driving accounts seems to be taboo, although I thought it was a small opening by Mr Rinnooy Kan. Could the door be opened to a similar small gap for a fair price for organic farming products compared to the bio-industry? I would like to get a response to this, also in the light of the recent opinions of the Health Council, precisely because agriculture and road traffic seem to be the main causes of particulate matter and climate problems. For us, this is more generally the contrast between the words and the plans on the one hand and the actions and the real implementation of the reform agenda on the other. My group chairman also appointed this during the Political Reviews a few weeks ago. In the housing market, the labour market, pensions and care, steps are very cautious. Reference is made to problem analyses, investigations and the exploration of support. Has the urgency been sufficiently understood? Because the restoration of the balance between fixed and flex, more certainty about a decent long-term pension, dealing with high mortgage debt and the risk of a new bubble in the housing market and the cost of maintaining high-quality affordable care all require considerable investment. At the same time, this calls for an even greater understanding of the risks to the sustainability of public finances, which are already under pressure and could be put under even more pressure in the long term. I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. Madam President. We will come back to the cabinet's tax choices in more detail when discussing the Tax Plan in December. One aspect, which was mentioned earlier today, is that of the discussion on the locational environment. We note that the cabinet is somewhat embarrassed by occasional arguments in this regard. On the one hand, it is said that it is extremely difficult to say to what extent individual factors contribute to the locational environment. This is the starting point for new measures which replace the abolition of dividend taxation. The intended impact is a substantial contribution to growth potential and strengthening international competitiveness across the board. But whether you're looking at the Global Competitiveness Index, where the Netherlands is in sixth place, at the IMD World Competitiveness Ranking, fourth place, or at the Forbes Best Countries for Business Index, third place, there's nothing to suggest that our location climate would be under pressure or worse, because our ranking is similar to that in 2012. Nor does any of those rankings give any reason to believe that there would be a link between a lower percentage of such income tax and a better locational environment or greater attractiveness for companies. Over the years, in this international comparison, the Netherlands stands over countries with a lower profit tax, but also countries that lower their profit tax do not see this directly translated into an increase in rankings. In the meantime, Mr Van Apeldoorn, the Netherlands, is also approaching the top ten of the lowest rates. We too are concerned about the race to the bottom that sounds like this, in which the fiscal edges are looked up by the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the cabinet. The big question that this raises is whether this money could not be spent better. Because what is important about these companies and those international investors? Ernst & Young also shows in the Barometer Dutch Location Climate 2018 that international investors consider quality of life, infrastructure and the level of training of employees to be important. Also in this Millions note and in underlying numbers it can be seen that the Netherlands scores very well on those aspects. That is precisely what gives it great confidence in the Dutch location climate. We see in the same monitor that, for example, the digital location climate or the climate for start-ups is considered at least as important, if not even more important, by the international investors. My group cannot therefore follow the option of reducing the tax on profits. The same applies to the reasoning that the reduction of the dividend tax, which was also not convincingly substantiated, should be brought back to business. As far as the location climate is concerned, we are also concerned with other policy proposals of this cabinet. It is not always clear what the objective of the policy is, what instruments will contribute to it and how it will ultimately be determined whether policy has been effective. We can see that at the Innovation Box, at the shift in income tax and at the tax greening. We also see it in answers to the question of exactly what investments are in the public sector and why they have been made in security, care, defence and so on. In the written answer, the Minister addressed in detail our questions about Operation insight into quality and efforts made to better identify societal added value and effectiveness. I refer here to Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, which states that all proposals, intentions and commitments require an explanation of effectiveness, objectives, efficiency, policy tools and financial implications. At the same time, however, we also see in the reply that the Minister shares our view that there is still room for improvement in the current budget in these areas and that the next few years will have to be used to improve it with other departments. In three years' time, we will evaluate to what extent this has been achieved. As far as we are concerned, this can really be done faster and more ambitiously. We therefore call on the Minister to put this in order in precisely the Millennium Note 2020 and to ensure that this is done in other departments. In any case, we expect him to involve this Chamber extensively. We're holding a motion for that. Mr. Chairman. The economy is growing, but not everyone benefits equally. Both in 2018 and 2019, the group is left behind with the 20% lowest gross income: 1.5% overall, but 1% for this group. Within this group, even 9% are expected to be affected by a fall in purchasing power. With all the nuances associated with purchasing power, we think that this is an extremely worrying development, especially if we include the capacities, which makes inequality even stronger. Also in the light of what SCP and WRR regularly call for attention, namely that social inequality along the lines of education also translates into unequal opportunities in the labour market and housing market and into unequal distribution of income and wealth. The economy is growing, but it bears witness to a narrow concept of prosperity. We welcome the insight that the Monitor Brede Prosperity offers us in this and also the extensive attention given by the Council of State to this in the opinion on the Millions Note. The contrast that we see now is that it is going well with material prosperity, with safety and with health, but that it is going less well with the environment, living and living together. Looking to the future, the major challenges facing human capital and economic capital, which are going well, are not going well with that natural capital, such as nitrogen surplus, CO emissions and fossil energy. Here, too, the development of broad prosperity shows a similar dividing line between the higher and lower-skilled. How does the Cabinet play this? What action is the Cabinet taking, also in view of the advice of the Council of State to integrate wider prosperity more into the Millions Note? Mr Van Kesteren also asked about this. Mr. Chairman. I began my speech by referring to explorer Amundsen, who was cited by the Minister as an example of careful preparation for possible bad times. What the minister did not mention was that Amundsen initially focused on the North Pole. When Robert Peary claimed to have already achieved this, today this is seen as an extremely unlikely story, Amundsen, also to bewilder his expedition team, tossed his plan 180 degrees. It is reminiscent of the months-long defence of the abolition of the dividend tax. When the London decoy turned out to be stronger, the cabinet dropped it just as quickly. But the thought "we really have to go to a pool; let it be the South Pole instead of the North Pole" remained. In addition, Amundsen explicitly considered the trip to the South Pole as a match with Robert Scott. He challenged him in a letter who would be the fastest. My group sees how, in a fiscal competition with some countries, the cabinet is moving towards lower rates of tax on profits in such a way, whereas we would prefer you to compete on other fronts. To invest in reducing workload and increasing job fun in the public sector. To get rid of the embarrassing 34th place on the Climate Change Policy Index with an ambitious climate policy. To steer and control the financial sector in such a way that it does not make the same mistakes again and will have to be saved again by the State. This means that GroenLinks will continue to follow this minister and cabinet critically on that expedition. How's the atmosphere on the expedition team? Exactly what preparations have you made? Do you have the right instruments with you? Do you even know why you are carrying these instruments at the moment? Above all: do we really have to go to the South Pole? What is that destination? Are you on your way with sufficient pace and effort? We await with interest the response of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u27	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, congratulations to Mr Wever. Mr. Chairman. Government in times of prosperity could be referred to as The burden of good luck, the title of the beautiful book of historian Van Deursen about the Golden Age in the Netherlands. It seems clear to us that our country will have the economic tide in the coming financial year. For example, next year a substantial budget surplus is estimated for the fourth consecutive year. That has not happened since the 1950s. Government debt is falling below 50% of GDP. Not only public finances benefit from the favourable economic times. At last, however modest, households also seem to notice more of the economic boom as wages begin to rise and income tax goes down. Almost all households are improving their purchasing power. Unemployment is falling below the pre-crisis level. Mr. Chairman. That happiness is not only something to be happy about, but it is also a burden: it creates obligations. After all, although we all know that we have to repair the roof when the sun shines, it is difficult in sunny times to maintain the urgency to prepare ourselves for the approaching rain and possibly even stormy times. This is certainly the case if we include the highly turbulent international context. Think Brexit, Italy and threatening trade conflicts. As a result, painful measures that would have to be taken during a high economy are often taken in a time of crisis, which means that the pain is particularly severe, not to mention the procyclical nature. Mr. Chairman. Especially now that the figures and forecasts for 2019 show that we are past the peak of the growth spurt, it is up to the Cabinet to quickly implement some of the planned reforms. These reforms are needed to make the Netherlands crisis-proof and more sustainable. My group wants to see more speed and urgency, even when it comes to legislative proposals. The agenda of the First Chamber is simply too empty, so we experience it weekly. First of all, I am thinking of pension reform, so that the system will fit in with the changing labour market and bring it back into line with young and old. The big question is whether, in these good times, we are all here to see if we can move forward that necessary step as a polder and a political one together. The negotiations are dragging on. Is the once so famous Dutch polder still able to do what is right and what is necessary in the general interest and interest of all generations? What if it turns out that crucial fellow players in the polder, for whatever reason, do not dare to jump over the pension reform lock after every run-up? How does the cabinet act? Secondly, I am thinking of labour market reform. In no other country has the share of flexible contracts andzzp'ers grown as fast as in the Netherlands. This is not a natural phenomenon; it is a consequence of the way in which we have shaped collective arrangements, laws, rules and other incentives. With his recent Labour Market Bill, the Minister for Social Affairs has taken a first step in reducing fixed contracts and at the same time reducing their cost, and making flexible contracts less flexible and, above all, less cheap. That is an equally necessary and logical step. Everything in life that is flexible is more expensive, from airline tickets to childcare services, except in the labour market. At the same time, it is only a first step. We are also waiting with sorrow for thezzp approach of this cabinet. I'd like to ask the Minister what's going on with that. As a third reform, I call it the housing market. If it is necessary to show courage as a cabinet ten years after the start of the credit crisis, it is in relation to the exploded housing market. This crisis started for a reason with the derailment of the American housing and mortgage market and then the unprecedented fall of Lehman Brothers. It is particularly good to think about this when it comes to our economic weather. The symbiosis between the economic situation and the housing market is completely unhealthy in our country. The Netherlands Bank therefore draws our attention to the worrying developments in the housing market and states that further reforms are needed. The government is undoubtedly taking a step forward, but the plans are still a little harsh against the developments that are taking place in this city and in the other major cities of our country, where prices are rising and the housing market is almost dry-boiled. Mr. Chairman. I notice that the cabinet talks a lot about building, building, building, and little about the right incentives or tackling wrong incentives in the housing market. For example, what dam does the cabinet throw up against investors in the metropolitan housing market? Because investors currently have money like water, they have an important competitive advantage in the housing market compared to start-ups in particular, who barely get their funding. Private investors are increasingly hijacking the latest affordable properties in front of starters, who are then forced to rent those same properties expensively from these investors, the buy-to-let phenomenon. The number of start-ups and start-ups in our cities has therefore fallen dramatically over the last few years. My question to the cabinet is whether it is willing to implement effective incentives, so that houses are back to live and become less interesting to earn. Should we not reverse the reduction in the transfer tax for third and subsequent houses, I ask the Secretary of State. Isn't it time to start taxing rents normally and not just in box 3? Is he prepared to look without taboo at the incentives that the housing market now needs? Mr. Chairman. Especially now that the abolition of the dividend tax is not going ahead and an alternative package of measures is being proposed, the current budget is better in balance. We have just had a detailed exchange of views on this. On top of the basic path, the government invests heavily in the public sector, rising to 6.5 billion in 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u29	I fully agree with Mr Ester's speech on the sale market, that part of the housing market. That is where the role of domestic and foreign investors, the buy-to-let phenomenon, as Mr Ester rightly pointed out, is far too great. I had already drawn attention to this in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u30	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u31	I also support his appeal to the government to take action against it or at least to look at how to combat it. But my question is about the rental sector, especially the social housing. Because there too, accessibility is at stake. There are problems there too, as I have said before. So I was wondering what Mr Ester was looking at. Are there any problems to be solved and is the cabinet doing enough to solve them? Is there enough construction? And if not, could we then take action to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u32	That's a lot of questions at the same time. It doesn't matter at all, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. But I wanted to draw attention here to a very specific group and a very specific phenomenon in the buying market, which leads to great social disruption. There are many other problems in the same housing market too, you also mention them, which deserve attention, but I did not go into them at the moment. In addition to that mantra of 'building, building, building', however important, I am the first to admit that the other story is that building, building, building is not enough, but that we also have to get rid of these perverse incentives on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u33	I fully agree with that, but I would like to ask you to deal with the other problem and ask you to deal with it. Let me put the question very simply. Can Mr Ester imagine that there is a problem now, for example, that apart from the landlord levy, which we have for a very long time, there is also a reduction in interest relief for housing corporations, and that it does not allow housing corporations to invest to the extent necessary to meet this need in the social rental market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u34	Of course, the cabinet also does what is necessary when it comes to the landlord's tax. There's a big discount coming up. The first is already in the order of 100 million. So there are already clear efforts being made there. Whether or not it is sufficient can be seen. That is the underlying reason for your question, I think. But there too, a serious matter is absolutely on the agenda. We should work out the idea a little bit more in order to get a little closer together on that point. Mr. Chairman. I thought my last sentence concerned 6.5 billion in 2021. This cabinet also eases the burden on the citizens of our country by more than 5 billion in the same year. Families can look forward to another 1 billion via the various child schemes. The Dutch industry can also look forward to a reduction in charges compared to the basic path after an initial slight increase in charges. I am quite consciously saying 'in relation to the basic path', because I am well aware that the basic path set out by the CPB shows substantial increases both in expenditure and on the burden side, and that the billions in burden relief from the cabinet can barely make up for the increase in the burden inherited from previous Cabinets for citizens. This basic path pushes us to the point that structuralally there is little room to allow the financial reins to be celebrated. That must be the message. In view of the long-term sustainability of public finances, the cabinet has already looked up the edges of what is still justified. The Council of State is not tired of pointing this out to us. One point of attention is that if money is earmarked for, for example, the necessary restoration of our defence, it is actually spent. Will this work in 2019, that is my urgent question. Happiness is more than purchasing power, for example, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Planning Bureau for the Environment show in their reflections on broad prosperity. They also show how important and persistent socio-cultural differences are, for example, the dividing lines that stand out between lower and higher education groups.That was already discussed between Dutch people with a lot and little human and social capital, between winners and losers of globalisation. The Minister recognised the importance of this broad concept of prosperity in the House of Representatives. Following on from an earlier remark, I would like to ask what specific role he sees in his policy for that broad concept of prosperity, for example in the Millions' Notes that will be produced under his reign. I like to hear that. Mr. Chairman. My group continues to be deeply concerned about the banking sector. This concerns both the culture of the bank and the level of the buffers. The past few months have shown once again that the social antenna of banks has been developed. The pay and bonus culture is beginning to show a return to the pre-crisis period. The money laundering affair at ING leads to deputy pubic red on the jaws. And the reaction of the banks to social outrage continues to surprise us. Why does the compass of the banks succeed in finding it in the social north? Are the current buffer standards not simply too low to prevent a new crisis? According to leading Stanford economist Anat Admati, own capital needs to be greatly increased. And Andrea Enria, the President of the European Banking Authority, recently stated that banks in the euro area have insufficient loss absorption capital. Our own DNB president Klaas Knot sees the banking hunt for double-digit returns as a serious danger. How does the Minister judge these sounds? Shouldn't those buffers just go up, say 15% to 20% of the balance sheet total? And is the recent banking stress test not too lenient in this respect? Mr. Chairman. The banking sector's move towards payment is a small one. In a few years the loss of cash payments in the Netherlands has become a reality. Recent figures show that less than 40% of payments are still in cash. There are also very good reasons for this. Nevertheless, my group also has concerns about the advance of electronic payments. Vulnerable groups such as the visually impaired and some of the elderly are already struggling with this. This also applies to the more than 2.5 million low-literate people, who are difficult to compete with in the digital age anyway. DNB also speaks warning words. The Christian Union Group invites the Minister, in consultation with the banks, municipalities and retailers, to ensure that consumers and citizens can continue to pay for contact. Can this be promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u35	However, I find it rather disappointing that the conclusion for the Christian Union must be that the currency must be retained to help people who find it difficult, for example, to count a lot of money at the same time, by making it possible to do so in dimes and quarters, rather than with a pass that says it nicely. To be honest, I would have expected a more forward-looking view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u36	There are a lot of noises from the disabled sector, including from older people and from those who care for low-skilled people, that this is a serious social problem. I also think, above all, that we should not be bathing about it. I'm not saying you do, you understand me, but this is a matter. They're large groups. The only thing I ask the cabinet is not only to join the mantra of electronic payments, but also to look at these vulnerable groups and be prepared to do something about it. That's what I'm asking, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u37	I'll share that problem analysis on my own. I share the view that this can lead to problems, just as currency can also cause major problems in terms of losing, getting confused, fraud and so on. That is what you committed me to, at least I hear a call for money to be maintained for those people. I thought that conclusion was too short. That's what I spoke to you about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u38	I certainly didn't say that, and I certainly didn't mean it that way. I am concerned that something needs to be devised for this vulnerable group. Make sure that they do not get lost because of all the complicated social arrangements we come up with about payments. That's all I want to draw attention to. And something in me says that Mr Postema wholeheartedly supports that. Mr. Chairman. Let us now briefly look at Europe. Here, too, the question of others: how does the minister appreciate and judge from his position the Brexit deal as it became known last week? Where are the opportunities, where are the threats and how do the agreements fall within the Eurogroup which, as we know, met yesterday? My group too is concerned about the developments in Italy, the third economy of EMU, with a huge debt and problematic budgetary plans. Italy is simply too big to save. The new Italian Government does not seem to care much about European budgetary rules. The question is whether the red card that the Commission drew is sufficient or whether we are falling back into the old Brussels response to tolerate sinning against European budgetary requirements. Does the Minister belong in this respect to the hawks or to the pigeons? In this context, I would like to say a few words about the forthcoming MFF. The European Court of Auditors indicates that unused EU expenditure amounts to as much as 267 billion. How does the Minister assess this recordprop, which includes roughly two EU annual budgets? My group also notes with satisfaction that the Minister has a leading role in the Hanseatic coalition, which chooses its own position on the European monetary field. In addition to focusing on the ESM, does the Minister also see a role for this coalition in terms of the level and distribution of the MFF, the payments and the Commission's vision of generating own resources? What exactly is his broader agenda for this Hanzeliga, including with regard to its own euro area budget, as was the case yesterday? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. All in all, the budget for 2019 is balanced in the transition to citizens, businesses and government. Purchasing power differences Whatever we give for that, vultures don't get out of the bend. But Dutch people are not inspired by favourable macroeconomic statistics, no matter how important they are. They are mainly concerned with a society that is socially, culturally and ecologically sound. There's a lot of work to be done there. And, Mr President, as I began my contribution, the burden of good luck is mandatory. The Christian Union Group wishes the rulers much wisdom and God's blessing in taking up and fulfilling this expensive duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Madam President. May I begin by congratulating the Ministry of Finance, which has brought back a huge amount of figures and data to a handy blue booklet? I assume that the rulers have put in what they consider to be important and I would be happy to take it up in the hope that the Minister and the Secretary of State will take a look with me. Of course, let's go to page 42 first. That is where my political party is called: SGP. Thank you very much for that. It is a pity that this is not about the Reformed Party, but about the Stability and Growth Pact. In any case, a good time to take what the SGP thinks of the SGP. In the SGP, the Member States of the European Union agree that their budgets are in balance or in surplus. That means the government doesn't spend more money than it receives. The SGP believes that this is a good starting point. In short, the budget deficit should not exceed 3% of GDP, and public debt should not exceed 60% of GDP. This balance is positive, according to the blue book a rare phenomenon, caused by the fact that the government receives more money than it spends. My question is whether this rare phenomenon should not be the primary starting point. The Council of State report shows that the long term is not yet in order. After all, there is a structural budget deficit. Are we not currently using the occasional windfalls to solve structural problems? Can the Minister reassure us on this point? And why not pay extra, for example part of the 1.9 billion extra coming in now that the abolition of dividend tax is not going to happen? Mr Van Kesteren already indicated that this is now being used for SMEs. In my question on this subject, he also indicated that it would improve the balance, which would be good for employment among other things. That is important in itself. However, the interest charges on the sovereign debt are falling, but not because the sovereign debt is falling, but simply because interest rates are historically low. What is needed is a reduction in public debt, so that we do not fall into the trap if interest rates are to rise or if the economic tide is to be reversed. Madam President. I'm going to browse for another page of the blue book, page 24. There is a nice overview with purchasing power figures. During the General Political Reviews, the Minister of Finance was not present, but I said that society is crying out for equal treatment on all fronts. In doing so, I referred to the CPB report Eenreservers under pressure. The first two sentences of the summary in that report read: "The difference in the tax burden for one and two earners has increased considerably. The question arises as to whether a further increase is desirable for the sake of equality and efficiency." It is striking that the Council of State also mentions this point and even supports it with similar words, coupled with whether or not to comply with the broad concept of prosperity, for which we are now getting more and more attention, thanks to the Christian Union and the Labour Party. Does the Minister agree with the Council of State that this broad concept of prosperity also applies to earners? How can this be restored? In this context, the crucial question is: do the rulers consider the current distinction in tax burden between one and two earners fair? The Committee on Finance recently discussed whether a commitment to the Chamber had been met. That commitment was made that the Minister of Finance would present the CPB's report, after which he would discuss it with the political groups, including those of this Chamber. When is this conversation going to take place? Madam President. The government agreement states that the purchasing power of a earner is now improving as much as that of two-earners. The Millions note even speaks of a median purchasing power development of 1.6% for the two-earner and 1.7% for the one-earner. That sounds very nice and reassuring, but the question is whether that is justified. Because what exactly are we talking about when it comes to purchasing power? Well, there is a clear definition in the Social Affairs budget: "Buy power indicates what household disposable income is. This is the income that households can still spend after paying taxes and premiums and receiving supplements." In other words, it's about purchasing power after taxes. And that's where it goes wrong! It means that a single earner doesn't get any better than a two earner at all. The latter is easy to demonstrate with the well-known example around an income of €40,000. So what is the improvement in purchasing power in hard euros? It's a simple math. A two-earner with a gross income of €40,000 pays €1.865 in taxes and the purchasing power is therefore €38.135. In the case of a purchasing power increase of 1.6%, this is €610 in purchasing power. A earner with a gross income of €40,000 will pay €10,383 in taxes and the purchasing power will therefore be €29,617. With a purchasing power development of 1.7%, this is only €503 increase in purchasing power! This means that the two-earner has a net gain of €107 more than the one-earner. That is more than 20% more effective purchasing power. Does the Minister agree with the SGP Group that actual purchasing power in euros is a different picture from purchasing power in percentage terms? Can he give an overview of the actual purchasing power in euros for two-earners who earn fifty-fifty, for one-earners and for single people, and then for the different income groups? If that is not possible today, as I can imagine, can the Secretary of State promise that this review will be available in the near future, so that we can involve it in the treatment of the Tax Plan? Madam President. Another point of attention is the collective tax burden, consisting of total taxes and premium income as a percentage of GDP. Promise is a charge relief up to 5 billion, but it looks like we're gonna pay 100 million more. Is it true that we are ultimately more expensive, because all accounts go up, such as those for energy and care, just a little bit separate from VAT? As a citizen, you need a lot to understand the tax system. The complexity of the tax system would be addressed, but that does not seem very simple. The route taken to a social flat tax appears to be difficult to get off the ground. Take a modal income of €36,000. From that amount, the marginal tax rate is 49,25%. That was 49.13% so far, so it's a deterioration. From €70,000 you pay for every euro you earn more 57,75%. So it is not going to be cheaper, although we do not have to feel sorry for people with the latter income. Can't we take a step towards a real social flat tax? Speaking of the high marginal pressure, I am curious to see the point that we discussed last year when we found that the marginal pressure for income rose between €22,000 and €32,000 to some 168%. How's this going? Can the chart be updated by the State Secretary so that we can discuss it in the course of the Tax Plan? Madam President. A few more points of interest. I'm gonna go over to pages 58 and 59 of the blue book, and then specifically to the Ministry of Defense. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats very much agrees with the increase that this cabinet has put in place. On page 59 we see the effect of this via the blue dotted line. All nice, but the dotted line seems to go down in 2021. That is worrying, because it is still far too little when we look at the NATO standard. It is based on 2% of gross domestic product. On page 5 of the handy blue booklet, it has been mentioned that GDP is EUR 812.8 billion, so 2% of which means that more than 16 billion is needed. The Netherlands has also agreed that by the end of this year all NATO alliance members will have to submit a national plan on how they will implement the commitments made at the NATO summit in 2014 in the coming years. What is the role of the Minister of Finance in this? And what's the status? When can we, including in the First Chamber, see and assess this national plan? Madam President. In 10 minutes I only covered a few pages of this blue booklet. Now I come to the last page, literally. That's a white page. Today I hope to be able to record a few points, as wishes for the next blue booklet. The government's answers can help me with that. And I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u41	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. The 2019 Millions note is the first to be entirely under the responsibility of the Rutte III cabinet and to 50PLUS hopes the last. What strikes us is the illusion with numbers and a weather forecast that according to the patent of previous Rutte Cabinets, cheering on Prince's Day is brought out and later, without a muscle being pulled, is adjusted downwards. We would like to hear it again from the Minister of Finance himself: What was promised more purchasing power in 2017? And what was the actual result? Was it true that it was predicted that 90% of all Dutch people would progress and was it true that about half of the Dutch people have deteriorated? Can the Minister give us the right figures in advance and afterwards? And the same for 2018 as far as we know. Of course, much remains to be done in 2019, but does the Cabinet maintain its proud announcement that 96% of families will progress 1.5% in average and therefore have €500 more disposable income on an annual basis? Economic growth, between 2.5% and 3% in 2018 and 2019, is it equal to everyone? The Nibud has found that, over the past ten years, pensioners have been denied no less than 15% indexing. Does the Minister recognize this figure and what does he do about it? Or does he say, "I'm sorry," but that's the way it is? CDA spokesperson Van Kesteren has been whimpering about not indexing in the debate, as in recent years, but when something has to happen, he runs away. According to the polls, half of the CDA voters have already run away, but the other half, who still tends to vote for the CDA, is entitled to a clear answer. What is more striking is that the Minister, for example when answering questions from the House of Representatives on 1 October, when he talks about the increase in VAT from 6% to 9%, which is a burden increase of €25 per month for an average family, it talks about "a little bit up" and "it's getting a little more expensive." No, for people with a small and re-indexed pension, €25 is not a "little bit" but a sensitive financial blow. There is an agreement and a difference between the illusionist Hans Klok and this also virtuoso minister Hoekstra. Hans Klok knows how to roll his guests' pockets on stage without them noticing. The difference between him and this minister is that the minister openly shows how he does it. One point that has stuck to the General Political Reviews in this Chamber and has been referred to today is the lower net holiday allowance that AOW'ers get in 2018 and 2019. A single AOW'er got net €15 less holiday money this year, AOW'ers with a partner €22 less. Around three million people were affected as a result of a tax development. Not a real policy issue but, as the chief editor of the Geldgids, Van der Heijden, wrote in the Volkskrant, a result of the progressive government machine. A pure mechanical act, which he calls a blunder. In the long run the problem will be solved by the switch to less tax brackets, but also next May AOW's will receive less holiday money than in 2017. Can the government tell us how much of the net amount will be in May 2019 and whether and how this can be compensated? Another point is the Tax Office. At the questions of the 50PLUS-Second Member of Parliament Van Rooijen, Minister Hoekstra replied that the problems in the Tax Administration are large, complex and persistent. And in a moment of great clairvoyance he added: I cannot rule out that there will be new problems. Last Friday, De Telegraaf reported prominently that dozens of employees of the tax authorities are suspected of scam. Fifteen employees would have been fired by now and twenty more are being investigated. Can the Minister or the Secretary of State provide further information and confirm this notification? Has such extensive fraud ever occurred before in the Tax Office and are the culprits equally ordinary citizens, fined and possibly criminally prosecuted? What does the Minister think of the fact that the widely recognized mess in the Tax Administration has arisen and continued under the seven-year rule of one and the same Prime Minister? 50PLUS argues in total for a different policy. I would like to mention a few more examples. Now AOW's bring in a larger share of the AOW every year. Pensioners pay a high income-dependent care premium. It's paid for employees. The large tax reduction of 5 billion has gone almost entirely to the workers and not fairly distributed among all the Dutch. 50PLUS wants measures and has tabled an own-initiative proposal to enable the indexation of pensions and to avoid the threat of reductions by the end of next year. The CDA is served at its beck and call. The systematic and long-term policies whereby older people benefit financially must be brought to an end. But it must be feared that this will only be possible if there is another cabinet. Moreover, 50PLUS has the best thing for Europe, which is why we will wholeheartedly support a possible candidacy of Prime Minister Rutte for a post in Brussels. Finally, I would like to comment on this debate in the Upper House. The coalition groups in the Senate are not bound by the coalition agreement, but on all important issues, as was shown when the referendum was abolished, there are apparently no independent senators in the house anymore. The Duves seem extinct. This makes these debates uninteresting and it is to be feared that it will not change until after March next year when the changed distribution of seats in the new First Chamber becomes known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u43	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I call Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u44	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Wever on his maiden speech. The relief because of the fact that next year the Brexit seemed to be a fact without immediate major problems, is already getting away after all the negative reactions that Prime Minister May gets. It is far from secure and, moreover, the agreement, which may never be concluded, is just a provisional arrangement which cannot be maintained for many years. Whatever comes next, there's no sign of it. For example, there are more conditions that could threaten our prosperity, such as the tense relationship between the US and the rest of the world, the wars and tensions on other continents, as well as the situation within the European Union and the euro area, Italy. However, all this does not alter the fact that the prospects can be described as reasonably bright at the moment. At least, at first sight. The reality behind this flourishing economic development seems more complicated to me. I mentioned that three weeks ago in my general comments. There is a shortage of labour. At the end of September there were 262,000 vacancies, against which 1,31 were unemployed per job vacancy. That's not much. And in many sectors it can also be seen that there are almost no people to get. Construction and transport are affected and the sectors that are to be paid out of public funds also have too few people, the IND, the police, care, education. There, of course, funding plays a role, but also the scarcity of the labour market. This scarcity seems to lead, in a positive way, to a somewhat easier rise in wages and a return to spending more permanent jobs, but in order for the latter to really continue, public action will also clearly be needed. Regulating, as is now being started by the Minister of SZW, and finally also with regard to the position ofzzp'ers. This still has to be done, but in addition further fiscal and other measures seem necessary to further reduce the differences in treatment between wages and profits and thus indirectly raise the wage ratio. However, the shift from wage and income tax to VAT increases net wages and increases the burden on flex work, thus stimulating fixed contracts and encouraging more labour supply. This is already a step, while the VAT increase seems to be only proportional to low incomes. The latter is, of course, because not only basic necessities, but in the meantime a lot of goods and services have been brought below the low rate. In fact, one VAT rate remains of course ideal and as simple as possible. In Denmark it is possible. Does the government see any possibility of going further in this direction without affecting lower incomes? A low rate really only for basic necessities would go a long way in the right direction. That could also relieve the border region. In the current circumstances, even the demand for low value added tax-enhancing work does not really need to be affected. Scissors of labor is not our only ailment. There are too few homes and, partly due to the scarcity of labour, too few are built up. Apart from the shrinkage areas, housing prices are rising too fast, with a direct disadvantage for those looking for a home, but also with risks for the future. Under conditions, the government reduces the landlord's tax slightly, but also takes some negative measures in the interest deduction limitation. Would it not be useful to reduce the landlord's tax on corporations in order to really give corporations the opportunity to build new social housing, to make existing housing more sustainable and to take measures to promote social stability in the neighbourhoods? I'll just put the question to the Minister. There are other problems. Both the road network and the rail network are overloaded. To the length of years we will have to live with more longer than shorter traffic jams. It is busy, busy, busy in this country; both at work due to understaffing, and on roads due to overcrowding. And there is overcrowding even in the countryside, with cows, pigs and chickens. This is at the expense of our living environment, which has once again been demonstrated by the clearly very large scale of manure fraud and the very small results of the hunt for fraudsters. Is that what we want? And do we want to go further in that direction? Is that why we are striving for an even more attractive locational environment? Do we therefore believe that it is necessary not only to reduce corporation tax significantly in the step-up, which is very important for SMEs, but also in the main rate, by 3 billion structuralally? A great deal has already been said about it this afternoon: does the Minister not really feel that we are making another move in the race to the bottom that we are working with each other in and outside Europe? Given our existing problems, can we not even afford not to participate in this race this time? And would it not be useful to strive for as much European tax harmonisation as possible to limit such a race, at least within Europe? I know, tax sovereignty. But common sense points the other way around here, doesn't it? The 3 billion the government wants to spend on the tax on profits could be better spent. The structural budget balance can be improved and the public sectors with too high working pressure can be dealt with financially. The discussions on the MFF for the European Union can be made more flexible. We all know that the Union may be able to do less in some areas, but it certainly needs to do more in many areas. Moreover, the climate measures to be taken will not be easier if we bring even more crowds, more activity and more people to the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Economic growth is defined in a way that certainly does not guarantee that growth can always give us a better life. However, measures to achieve sustainability, i.e. improvement, could well lead to GDP growth and economic growth. But not everywhere. Negative growth will also be necessary. I am thinking here of agriculture. Does the Minister think that the reduction in the tax on profits will lead to meaningful economic growth, or merely to more crowded and scarcity? Mr. Chairman. These sustainability measures and the climate agreement will, of course, be discussed later, but they will continue to do so from a number of points of view. The state's attorney's office is calling for a reduction in livestock numbers. That's about agriculture again. The Netherlands Bank argues for a CO levy of €500 per tonne. The RAI Association pleads for charging. The phasing out of the extraction of Groningen gas requires a rapid shift on a large scale. Nothing is self-evident: measures almost always cost money for those involved and are therefore rarely expected to result directly from voluntary action. The government will have to steer, with clear and compelling measures, also in order to ensure a fair distribution of costs. On the other hand, it will have to give much room for local and regional initiatives. There seems to be scepticism in society when it comes to costs and distribution, and also about the need for action, but there is also a great deal of conviction that we will not make it if we are not prepared to move forward. There is also enthusiasm to get to work on that. Does the Minister of Finance wish to contribute to stimulating growth, not to more and greater, but to better? Then how does he think this should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I'm looking at the clock. We're done 50 minutes early than planned. I have a question for both rulers. I am aware that there is often a general introduction before addressing the specific questions of those who have spoken. Is it possible to start this general introduction between now and 4.45 p.m.? Or make a shorter introduction, whatever. My question is actually: is it possible to start with your answer? We'll suspend at 4:45. That means we may not have to last until 00.00 tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u47	I can also see from the Minister's body language that that is indeed the case. He can indeed begin the answer now. I appreciate that. I think the Members of Parliament appreciate that, too. We'll suspend at 4:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u48	Mr. Chairman. I'd love to. Let me make a few introductory remarks. I won't stretch that for 50 minutes. With your permission, I will then start with the first block on Europe and the world around us. Possibly, if we manage to do so, we will have a second block on budgetary policy. If we still feel like it, I will answer a number of specific questions about the budget. I'll come with the rest later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u49	Europe and the world around us can be treated in a few minutes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u50	That's what I'd think, Mr. Chairman. But when I listen to the questions, I'm not entirely sure. Mr President, may I have two minutes to order? This improves the precision of the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u51	I'd like to suspend for five minutes, too. I don't want to stress you out. I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u52	The next item is the continuation of the General Financial Reviews. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I would very much like to take this opportunity to make a number of introductory remarks and then to reply, but I will do so only after congratulating Mr Wever and complimenting him on his excellent maiden speech. It brought back memories of the maiden speech I gave myself seven years ago. I remember that the face of Mr De Graaf, the then chairman, involved during the speech, but that might have been because I had included him in the speech. However, I have taken note with great interest of Mr Wever's broad and well-founded speech. I shall, of course, reply to it in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Obviously, it is always a pleasure for the Secretary of State and me to be here and, of course, for myself to be back. Through you, Mr President, I would like to thank Members for the many questions and comments they have made towards the cabinet. It is true that many members have recalled that the Dutch economy is doing very well. The rich budget also looks good. I believe that it was Mr Ester, but also others, who referred to the triangle between investing heavily in society on the one hand, and putting public finances in order sustainably and, thirdly, reducing the burden on citizens. I'm sure we'll get to talk about how you hit those picket posts. Mr. Chairman. It is a budget in which we not only look at what the country needs now and try to find balance, but also to look at the future. We want to prepare for the future along each of these three pillars, if I may call it that, which I have just recalled. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'd like to do. I suggest that I start with quite a lot of questions about Europe: about the Stability Pact and coalition formation. You said you might be done with that in a few minutes. But if I'm trying to take the number of questions, I think I need a little more space for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u54	It was supposed to be ironic. I hope you've understood that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u55	Mr President, I am learning every day. So I'd like to do that first block. Secondly, let me say a few words about, and answer the questions that relate to, the economy and public finances and budgetary policy. Third, the spending side. Fourthly, the situation of Dutch households and the burden side. I think we'll end up after dinner. As a fifth, I will deal with the revenue side, including the investment climate. As a sixth and last step, reforms, for example in the areas of pensions and the labour market. The Secretary of State will, of course, be responsible for taxation and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u56	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with one of the points to which several Members have referred and have also raised their concerns: the Brexit. We in the Netherlands have always said: the Brexit is bad news for the Netherlands. It has consequences in many areas: geopolitics, but also macroeconomics. We are working on the softest possible Brexit, but at the same time we need to prepare for a hard Brexit. This means that we must invest in Customs in good time, but also in the Food and War Authority, for example. The question of Brexit also raised the geopolitical question and the question of coalition formation for the cabinet. Mr Van Kesteren referred to that. Mr Postema also asked: who do you actually hang out with in Europe? Mr Rinnooy Kan also shared his views on Europe. What we have always said as a cabinet, and what I want to repeat in full, is the following. As a cabinet and as a country, we have a lot to gain in Europe. We are therefore very much prepared to discuss all these issues with colleagues in the various Member States. The discussion is not always about what, but very often about how. Think, for example, of the deposit guarantee scheme. We want that as the Netherlands, but how you want it and how you make sure that you do it in a sensible way, then listens very closely. Why did I start with the Brexit and then join the coalition formation? Well, just because the Brexit confronts us with the disappearance of one of our three anchors. Traditionally, as the Netherlands, we do very close business with Germany and we are also very close to Germany in the financial and economic field. In addition, we have the cooperation in the Benelux. Yesterday, I sat down with the Finance Ministers from Belgium and Luxembourg. Traditionally we also had England, which gave a counterweight to the more continental sentiments. Because England has always advocated free trade and many other matters that the Netherlands considers important. In that triangle between England, France and Germany the Netherlands often had it relatively easy, because there was always someone who took the cabbages out of the fire for us. But we have to assume that Britain is really going to leave the European Union permanently. That then brings with it the challenge of how to make sure that you not only rely on your classic allies Germany and the Benelux, but that you also try to compensate for the loss of Britain. We have tried to do this in two ways, I say in particular to Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Postema. First of all, we wanted to compensate for this by looking for a broader coalition, which also advocates, for example, the maintenance of the Stability and Growth Pact and which strongly supports our views on the emergency fund. I'll say something about that in a minute. The second part of the report, which is actually less publicized, is that we have entered into a much more explicit dialogue with France, because, of course, France and Germany were the engines, are and will continue to be, as I see it, in the years to come. In addition, France, of course, has taken a different path with Macron's policy. Not only in the area of fiscal policy, but also in the area of macroeconomic policy and in the area of reform, there are much more interfaces with Dutch policy than has been the case before. That makes it easier, so is my perception, or sometimes in the past. It means that we all, but in particular the Prime Minister and I, are looking for that alliance with France. Then there is the Stability and Growth Pact. Let me first say something about this in a general sense and then come to the questions about Italy, from Mr Postema, among others. I believe that Mr Schalk of the SGP also asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u57	However, on this not insignificant point, that delicate balance between French-German, I shall say and the Hanseatic. If it all goes well, it goes well. But there may be tension. There are differences in perspective. Perhaps the euro area budget is an example of this. Then the question is where the Netherlands chooses its priority at some point. In my opinion, the ultimate priority should be to strengthen Franco-German cooperation. My question is whether or not the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u58	I find that question too general, because the answer will often have to be more specific. Let us take the emergency fund as an example, then let me give an example of the question. In the Meseberg papers, Germany and France wrote about the emergency fund. This is very much in the same direction as the paper we made with that northern coalition two weeks ago, which by the way two countries joined, that is to say the ten. So that goes hand in hand quite simply. You can also see other files that Francijk and Germany do not agree on at all. Take, for example, the discussion about EDIS, the deposit guarantee scheme. That is what we are for under strict conditions. France is in favour of it in itself, but it is not a driving force. Germany actually wants less than we do. In any case, Germany has more hesitation with regard to the deposit guarantee scheme. My observation is that you always have to answer the question very specifically by file, where it is always so, and I agree with Mr Rinnooy that France and Germany will always play a very important role. But once again, I am not starting my speech with the observation that Germany was, is and will remain crucial for the Netherlands. Because our economies are very intertwined and our views on many issues are also very closely interwoven. Mr. Chairman. I come to the Stability and Growth Pact. However, I would like to say something about the importance of this, especially in a period of economic boom as we are experiencing it today. First of all, you have the discussion about maintaining it. That is the beginning of an answer to a question by Mr Schalk on Italy. Its maintenance is up to the Commission. It is true that all the other eurogroup finance ministers have joined the declaration that the Commission really needs to maintain the importance of the euro group and of Europe as a whole. That was all written down neatly, but it is a signal that the world has changed in that respect. First of all, it's good to mark that it's unique. The Commission has never returned a budget in its entirety before. That's never happened before in history. Secondly, there was broad support for the Commission's firm approach from the countries that you might not automatically expect. Here's what I'm gonna write down. One of the members talked about the tone we're talking to each other. In this dossier, I choose to be firm, like the Commission, about the content, but rather quiet language. I don't think it's gonna help this file if I do that differently. It is precisely the reaction the Commission is choosing. I think that is wise, because the use of macho language is choir on the mill of those who do not want to achieve a solution. I think what the Commission is doing is sensible. We have exchanged views with various finance ministers: we are not tempted to make very bold statements, we are assessing the content of the dossier and we are allowing the Commission to do its work at the moment. Mr Postema asked whether this is a good time to talk about the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. In doing so, he goes even further than my Italian colleague. Even my Italian colleague made a distinction between the situation in Italy now and the discussion about the rules, which you should also have. The Netherlands has always said that it is best to look at the whole range of regulations. You can ask yourself whether it can be simpler, or that you can do even more things that bring about sustainable growth. However, I think that the link with the Italian situation is dangerous, because the suggestion is that Italy should be the victim of rules which prove to be incorrect. That is not the case, as I see it, and that of the Commission and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u59	That's a misunderstanding. I haven't had the word "Italy" in my mouth. Nor have I ever wished to suggest that this was the Italian situation. On the contrary, I have argued in favour of the long-term objectives of the SGP and the phenomenon that the automatic stabilisers, which we in our country hold dear, are partly curtailed by short-term balance targets. The Committee, though a group of wise men, has developed a number of interesting ideas on this subject. I had asked for a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u60	Okay, then it was my continuing concern about Italy that I linked to Mr Postema's question. That's how we understand each other. The answer is as follows. We are always willing to look at a type of regulation that is simpler and easier to enforce. That's the second part that comes with my answer. If you take into account the history of the Stability and Growth Pact, you will see that the rules have changed a few times, also on the initiative of my predecessor. The big problem with these rules is not so much that they could do even better, but that they were too often not enforced in the past. The group of European countries should in a way, in good Dutch, be a high trust society, in which you commit to common agreements. That brings me to the next comment about Italy, but I see someone swarming around the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u61	Perhaps Mr Van Apeldoorn can ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the case of Italy and the Stability and Growth Pact. My colleague, Mr Postema, is in favour of simplifying the rules, but as far as the SP Group is concerned, more would be needed. Let's take Italy's case. The frame we keep seeing is that Italy is a pivotal country. But the facts are different. Recently, the head economist of the Deutsche Bank pointed this out in a piece in the Financial Times, from an unexpected angle from the perspective of some, we shall say. In recent decades, since the introduction of the euro, Italy has no longer committed debt-financed expenditure, but has had a primary surplus in the budget, i.e. after deduction of interest payments. That is still the case. In fact, Italy has been very good in that sense. What has been the result of the Italian economy? The Italian economy has grown by 8% over the past two decades, compared with Spain, for example, by 40% and France and Germany by 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u63	You're gonna get a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u64	The question to the Minister is: what should Italy do? There is now a budget for the democratically elected government of Italy. You can find all kinds of things, but one tries to do something about the total lack of growth in the Italian economy. Now the Minister and the European Commission say that it must not be, that it is wrong and that it is not going in the right direction, so Italy must do the homework again. The question is what alternative Italy has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u65	This brings me straight to the next question that several Members have asked about Italy. I do not see it as Mr Van Apeldoorn puts it. I share some of his analysis, and the Commission does. The Commission says that there are three types of problems with the Italian budget. The first is that the budget is out of control when it comes to the Stability and Growth Pact. They violate various rules we have, such as 21st, but also, of course, the 60%. The Commission is very critical of this. The second type of problem I consider to be the most fundamental. I think that is also what Mr Van Apeldoorn's question is about. In the Commission's view, the plans underlying the budget will not lead to sustainable economic growth. The Commission is particularly critical of a further reduction in retirement age. She is particularly critical of the basic income and about a number of other things. I have often exchanged this aspect with the Chamber: ask three wise economists for their opinion and you get four. However, I think that the majority of economists agree with the Commission's analysis that the Italian budget is seriously lacking in terms of growth objectives. The third type of problem is that the Commission is optimistic about the figures in the Italian plans for growth that the plans should bring about. Her own assessments are half to a whole percentage point more negative. After making the same sums on the basis of the information provided by Italy, the Commission simply comes to different conclusions. That's all three problems, is my perception. I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that the second point, growth, is the intrinsic problem that Italy should want to solve. But I do share the Commission's analysis that you must be very critical of whether these plans are going to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u66	At this point, Mr. Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u67	Yes, Mr. Chairman, on this point. This low growth is, of course, a major problem. It is a major problem for the Italian population. It is also a problem for Italian debt, which is increasing in relation to GDP. At least, the lower the growth, the higher the relative debt. Apart from the point of principle, whether the democratically elected Italian Government or the European Commission should be concerned with the Italian budget, the Minister and my group are always thinking differently about the need to reform Italy in order to get that growth back on track. The question is whether you can successfully reform under permanent austerity pressure and conditions of permanent austerity, or whether you should not think about how to give some air. The recipe so far hasn't worked. So what's the plan B this cabinet would be thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u68	First of all, on the point of principle and then on Mr Van Apeldoorn's comment on permanent austerity and what measures you should want to take. First of all, the point of principle. There is no one who denies that the Italian cabinet and then the Italian equivalents of the Second and First Chambers are about that budget. But everyone who has joined the European Union, including in the past, has done so in full knowledge of their commitment to the SGP. There are certain agreements in which countries must comply. It's as simple as that. So as often in life, there is no one dimensional answer. Of course, the primary responsibility lies with the Italian Cabinet and the Italian Parliament, but Europe has, given the agreements that apply to all Member States, something to be said about this. If Italy had not wanted that, it should have been decided in a previous choice. The second point concerns growth. My observation is not that Italy has been the victim of too much austerity in the last few years. I don't have that impression. I would like to put the following aside. If you look at the countries that have been programme countries and have gone through a phase of rather robust reforms, then you can see that for Ireland, Spain and Portugal all three have done more in terms of economic growth than you could have expected from the economic situation in those countries. So they have benefited from the programmes they have gone through over the past few years, no matter how difficult they were. This is also recognised by my colleagues in the Eurogroup. It wasn't easy, it was pretty painful from time to time, but it worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u69	Mr Van Apeldoorn, on this point, to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u70	Finally, Mr President. I just want to say that I know the Minister's mantra: rules are rules and agreements are agreements, and once you are in the euro, you have to abide by the rules of the SGP. I just want to say that we can change bad rules and bad agreements at some point if there are democratic majorities to do so. With regard to the second point, the Minister says that "austerity is not the cause', the fact is that Italy has had a primary surplus all these years and that growth has stagnated completely. So the Italians are holding hands in their hair. From this point of view, it is understandable that the Italian Government is now trying to change its mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u71	I will not take up all the temptations with which Mr Van Apeldoorn paves the way, but still one thing about rules. That is a misunderstanding that we should really want to free ourselves from. The European Member States have tried to come up with a set of rules which they believe are in the long-term interest of economic stability and of the growth of the Member States. They've taken them with their wits and minds. Once again, I very much agree with Mr Postema that you should always look at whether these rules should be tightened up even further, particularly in a high economy or in a low economy. But that's not why I'm so keen on it: a kind of Dutch or northern desire: rules are rules and we don't look further. No, that is precisely why I endorsed the Commission's three-stage approach and took out point two, namely sustainable economic growth. If that were all right, you could always have the discussion on point one. The worst thing is that this budget is out of control and that the plans are not helping either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u72	Mr Schalk on the SGP, I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u73	That's right. I didn't talk about Italy at all, but about that Dutch blue book. I make it clear that Italy does not belong to a blue book at all, when I hear it like that. But I was struck by the fact that the EMU balance is positive in the coming years. That's rare. EMU debt is declining because the Empire receives more money than it spends. My question was very simple: shouldn't that always be the starting point? Shouldn't we get rid of that rarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u74	Of course, as Minister of Finance, I can only say yes to that. What's in the book is the conclusion of what it's been like in the past. As I understood Mr Schalk and understood his question, also Mr Rinnooy Kan, who, in my opinion, endorsed the criticism of the Council of State, the challenge is precisely to ensure that, in this period of high economic growth, with this expansionary budgetary policy, as the planning agency calls it, we ensure that we do it wisely, do it prudently and build up sufficient buffers. By the way, there are a lot of things that are moving in the right direction. I am going to say a few words about this in the chapter on budgetary policy. But in general, of course, I would like to agree. Mr. Chairman. In Europe, I will still be on the MFF. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked for it in particular. Maybe it's good to briefly outline what we're trying to achieve there. Then I will say a few words about the euro area budget. Look, there too, the Brexit is another relevant issue, because the Brexit means that we will have a whole new kind of discussion about the budget. That's about the height, you have to make up for that at all, don't you? It's about the discounts. What I really do not think is reasonable about the Commission's proposal as it is currently on the table is that there is one in the leading net contributors group that is going to pay a lot more, and that is the Netherlands. If you just extrapolate those lines and look at Sweden, Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands, you can see that with the proposal as it is now on the table, the Netherlands will pay a disproportionate piece of the additional bill. So that's about height. The second is, and I very much agree with Mr Rinnooy Kan, the following. You must, I think, think, as a cabinet, make sure that you help a 21st-century Europe with a 21st-century budget. So that means that there must be a shift in favour of innovation, for example, in favour of an acute and, as far as I am concerned, truly European problem, namely the protection of the external borders. That you must want to invest in Customs. That you should consider investing in migration. It's getting more complicated over there, but I'm still calling it a question of what you should want to do about climate change and, possibly, defence. These are, of course, a lot more sensitive subjects, but they are subjects that are part of today's debate. So that's the second part. There is also another group of countries which are attracted to the logic of modernisation, because some countries see modernisation mainly as an attempt to "offset us less structural and agricultural funds." So it is also a difficult discussion with another group. I would also like to make a comment on the third part of the report, although Mr Rinnooy Kan did not mention that very explicitly, that you are ideally trying to achieve, is the container of conditionality. When it comes to the rule of law, but also when it comes to the effectiveness of investment, to make sure that taxpayers' money from all these countries is put in the right place instead of being prey to corruption, I think there is still a great deal to gain in terms of conditionality. I also believe that conditionality is necessary in order to maintain the basis of support, especially for net contributors. Interestingly enough, of course, it is another coalition of countries that agree with it. Many southern countries also agree with this logic and are also in favour of reciprocity, for example in the area of migration, but in particular a group of countries in Central and Eastern Europe is less in favour of this. So add that up and you're having a complicated discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u75	Do I hear the Minister say 'yes, we have to pay a lot more, but if we can agree on a number of conditions for spending that money, then we won't mind, we'll just do it'? Did I hear the Minister say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u76	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u77	Then perhaps the Minister can explain what he says with these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u78	I have outlined that there are three types of discussion on the MFF, the multiannual European budget. The first one is about the money. I have even explicitly said that I find the proposal as it is currently on the table simply not reasonable, because the Netherlands would have to pay too much extra. So that's something we're resisting. Secondly, I drew attention to the logic of modernising the budget. That is in the European interest, but it is certainly in the Dutch interest too, if you pay attention to what the Netherlands gets from innovation and when you see the added value of innovation in other Member States. Thirdly, as far as I and the cabinet are concerned, I have pointed out the great importance of conditionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u79	Finally, Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u80	But I can hear the Minister say that it is not the increase that we seem to be getting at the moment, but we are prepared to pay an increase, provided that there are guarantees of spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u81	Even with selective listening, I don't think you should be able to take that out of my words. I didn't say that. I didn't mean that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u82	I think I've heard the Minister say he's against an increase and we don't want to lose that discount. My question about the MFF was: how do you find enough allies to counter this? And what if we don't get it done? After all, we have a lot of partners in a European Union and it's a complicated process. How are we going to solve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u83	That was the last piece on the MFF. I have answered the questions about the money, here again with regard to coalition formation. I've already said a piece about that. As with each of these subjects, there is a similar group of countries that can take part in it, this is the case with the MFF in Extreme. That also complicates the discussion. In the case of the absolute amount, in short, the net payers are Germany, the Scandinavian countries, Austria, which identify themselves most closely with our position. And of course Britain was always there. That's the group. In the case of modernisation, I believe there is a much wider group, which can also be found in the northeast and in a country like France. In spite of the large agricultural subsidies going to that country, this French government does want to modernise. As far as I am concerned, the proposal now before us does not go far enough, but it is being initiated. That third piece, about that conditionality, you have to imagine geographically more like a doughnut, or maybe a pacman. Many countries see the logic of conditionality, from the Baltic to countries such as Spain, Italy and Portugal. But the Central and Eastern European countries in particular have reservations about this. That really complicates the search for coalitions. But that goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u84	I have a very simple question. The Minister says that we are expected to be so much more than comparable prosperous countries in northern Europe. Does that mean that our contribution has to be so much higher or that our net contribution is going to be so much higher? And what's that in? What's coming back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u85	Then I'm talking about the net picture, at the end of the MFF period that we have yet to get started on. The Commission now wants to strike a line through all the discounts. As you know, the Netherlands has a discount of more than one billion and it also has the so-called "discount on the discount." If you phase it out, that means we're gonna pay a lot more. And that is independent of what comes in nominal terms, because the Dutch budget is growing and the European budget is also growing, that goes without saying. The sum may, at the end of the next MFF period, amount to an additional 2 to 3 billion. Last week the House of Representatives also asked me about this and I mentioned this amount. So that's what this has to do with. And frankly, that is not reasonable, not even in the light of what is happening in the countries around us with net contributors. If you compare it with how the positions of Austria, Sweden and Denmark and Germany change, it must be in proportion, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u86	Would the idea of a 21st-century Europe, which needs a 21st-century budget, not also fit in with the idea that Europe should ultimately be able to obtain through direct taxes the revenue that can feed the budget, for example through a CO levy or a digital revenue tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u87	That is where Mr Rinnooy Kan gets to a delicate point. This is a very complicated discussion in many European countries and also in the Netherlands. If there is one subject that I have ever noticed is that there is no 100% consensus on living in both Chambers of the States-General, then this is the subject. There's a lot more to be said about it, but don't let me completely mow the grass at the feet of the Secretary of State. I would ask him to say something about taxation in a general sense and also about digitax, because that is what Mr Rinnooy Kan asked for. In the category of Europe, I still have the euro area budget. That was also a question from Mr Rinnooy Kan. We are certainly not convinced that this proposal has added value. The proposal has changed considerably compared to the way it was on the table a few months ago, but it is still largely surrounded by uncertainty. Yesterday, for example, it became clear that it is not clear how much money is involved, that it is not clear which countries are going to decide on it, that it seems to me to be a relevant fact and that it is not clear how it relates to other innovation pots that are already encrypted in the European budget. So there's a lot of confusion. There have been critical questions asked not only by the Netherlands, but also by other countries, precisely how this would help to solve the problems that exist. This brings me to my last issue in the category of Europe, if I am not mistaken. Are there not much more pressing problems that you should solve, for example the European Emergency Fund? Very briefly about the emergency fund. I have just said that Germany and France are in favour of a reform of the emergency fund. The coalition of Scandinavian and Baltic countries plus the Czech Republic and Slovakia are also in favour of this. So there is already quite a large group in some form for it. This also applies to a number of countries which I do not mention at the moment. The idea is that you give the ESM, which has done an incredibly good job in the crisis, more resources to monitor and negotiate programs and give it the opportunity to restructure debt. But of course the latter is only in a real emergency, you are talking about an absolute emergency scenario. But that is reasonable, because the alternative is that the taxpayer is again in the hands of the taxpayer, including the taxpayer in other countries. With this rather large group of countries, we believe that this should be part of the ESM arsenal, not as an automatism, but as an option. But there will still have to be some conviction in a few countries that have not yet responded enthusiastically to this. Mr President, I think I have said the most in Europe and answered the various questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u88	Mr Ester still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u89	I had another question about the unused EU funds. If you add them together, the European Court of Auditors believes that they amount to 267 billion. This includes roughly two EU annual budgets. Could you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u90	I wanted to find out one more thing about that. Perhaps I can return to Mr Ester in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u91	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u92	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the first of the six blocks. Let me take a look at the clock and at you. Do you think it would be useful if I started with the economy, public finances and fiscal policy? If so, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u93	I would do that, but I would ask you to consider it acceptable to stop at a quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u94	Yes. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u95	Okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u96	Mr. Chairman. First about the Dutch economy. Many have pointed out that we are going through a phase of absolute high-conjuncture. This means that the figures look very rosy this year and that they look very rosy next year. It is also important to note that next year unemployment appears to be at the lowest point since 2001. That is incredibly good news, because apart from the purchasing power debate, which I would like to continue after dinner break, and the discussion about how many percentage points everyone gets is, of course, having a job compared to the situation in which someone didn't have a job extremely important, not only in the economic sense, but also purely in terms of life's happiness. As Mr Schalk rightly pointed out in the context of public finances, this means that next year we will have another budget that looks positive and in which we will have more money. Mr Schalk was right to say that this is not often the case. Shouldn't be more often, he asked. At the same time, there are all kinds of risks. We have already talked about Brexit, of course Italy is also an indirect risk and the third risk I would like to emphasise is a possible trade war. We often think that such a trade war is only relevant if Europe gets directly involved, but all scenarios show that a trade war between China and America will also simply have consequences for the European Union and, in particular, for the Netherlands. To those who said that things are going well, it is important to say: yes, things are going well, but if the world economy and the European economy are going well, then the Dutch economy is doing very well. But the opposite is also true. So the moment the weather changes, it could very well be that we are in a situation very quickly where we have a very different conversation with each other in the Financial Reviews. What does that mean for the budget? 'Cause that's this block. Do you need to do something about the so-called expansionary budgetary policy, which Mr Rinnooy Can quite rightly asked about? Look, the most important thing you can do as a cabinet is to stick to that trendary fiscal policy as best you can. That means that Mr Rinnooy Kan asked me, in particular, whether it was not too much. The question I regularly get, including from the Lower House, is whether it is not possible to do more on a number of files. My answer to this is always: we have an expansionary budget, which on the one hand invests very heavily in society, but in which we are also getting public debt in order at a rapid pace, and that is all we need to do. So, as we must try to resist the temptation to do a little more at the moment in the booming economy, because there is money, we will have to try to stick to the trendary fiscal policy when the weather is less good, and not to go into balance management. Unless, at some point, you get into a situation where the crisis is so bad that you go through all the European parameters. But the idea behind the trendary fiscal policy is precisely to ensure that with a volatile economy and therefore also a volatile budget like the Dutch one, you are not constantly running or standing still. Mr. Chairman. While Mr Rinnooy Kan sneaks to the microphone perhaps one more remark in addition. It is often said that public finances are much better. That is true, but it is good to remind Members that the public debt is still well above 400 billion, and that we are spending a small 6 billion on interest alone. So it's going the right way, but it's far from solved. And we are also well above the level of debt before the crisis, which was at a rate of 43 out of my head. Next year we hope to get under 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u97	Thank you to the Minister for that explanation. Are you actually saying that the structural budget deficit, of which you can say a lot, but which has really been created to bring about discipline, is a less desirable instrument for you? Or is that what I'm hearing wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u98	Mr Rinnooy Kan said, in my opinion, 'budget deficit', but he meant the trend of fiscal policy. As far as I am concerned, this is a highly desirable part of Dutch budgetary discipline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u99	I'm interrupting, Mr. Chairman, because that's not what I meant. I meant the structural budget deficit, as we get delivered after a complicated and rather opaque calculation, and as it now seems to indicate, that is also the basis of my question: that the Netherlands is more on the procyclic side than on the anticyclic side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u100	Two comments. The latter is right in itself and that is something we see much more often in the Netherlands. I believe that last year's Millions Note, but it could have been in the previous one, explained with four squares how often we have a procyclical budget in the Netherlands. That's in itself right. That is why there is all the more reason to hold on to the trend of budgeting and to resist the temptation to do more, but also to have to cut back in two years' time. As far as the structural balance is concerned, Mr Rinnooy Kan is right. That structural balance is very volatile. He will have seen that balance now looks very different than a year ago and that the prediction was that that would be quite bad in 2018. I don't have the exact number in my head, but over 2018 it turns out to be a big plus of 0.9%. For 2019, this figure seems to be structurally rather poor, but in terms of growth we are still doing it in such a way that my estimate is that next year is probably not so bad again. My real concern is, frankly, about the third number that is relevant here, namely the sustainability deficit. In this respect, the budget is also vulnerable. You must therefore ask yourself whether you should not spend less structuralally than you are doing at the moment. At the moment it is not a problem at all, because on the revenue side there is so much money coming in that we are going to end the budget with a big plus next year as it now looks. But if things are less than they are now with the economy, that might be the vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u101	In conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u102	If there is so much to note about the structural balance on the one hand, which I can understand very well, and if, on the other hand, it seems desirable that the European countries in general have budgetary policies that are capable, let us say, of resisting cyclical fluctuations, then that points to the need for another instrument to effectively assess this and, if necessary, comment on it. My final question to the Minister: would you like to stand up for that? What would that instrument be? Would that be something to question at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u103	What has not been mentioned in the discussion, but is of course relevant, are the markers that we use most, namely the 3% and the 60%. Mr Rinnooy Kan is right to ask how relevant that structural figure is. There's something to be said about that. At the same time, it is something of a long-term perspective. I am very happy, as I said to Mr Postema, to have that conversation in Europe. Something like the sustainability deficit could help. I would point out, however, that it is a complicated discussion, because that structural balance has, if I remember correctly, come in at the intercession of the Netherlands, precisely because you want to look beyond it here and now. Perhaps the basket needs to be changed, on which Mr Rinnooy Kan will ask if it can be simpler. I'd love to, but it's about something being made up that you keep your gross mode. Mr. Chairman. That brings me, with a look at the clock, of budgetary policy on perhaps one first issue that has to do with the budget itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u104	Perhaps I could interrupt you for a moment: there is another question from Mr Schalk, who was still in line with the previous point. I think he may still ask that question, and I fear that the Minister will not have a new problem. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u105	I would like to move on to the point we were just talking about. In short, the Minister indicated that he is trying to resist the temptation to add to buffering, just to put it very plastically. We must ensure that the budget is also in order for the future. He indicated the risk of trade wars. I myself have indicated that the economic tide can also be reversed. Of course, interest rates are historically low, but as soon as something happens, we're in trouble. Should we not use Joseph's lesson: make sure that, now that things are going so well, there is some extra meat on the bones by not resisting the temptation to go on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u106	Please agree with the comparison with the grain barns of King Joseph. This example has also been mentioned by another party in the Lower House. But that's exactly what we're doing. If you look at the number of billions that we have left this year and next year, then you can see that the public debt really is falling at a high rate. There are several reasons for this. Mr Schalk is right that low interest rates help of course, but the most important reason is that the Dutch economy is doing so very well. Expenditure is slightly lower, but more or less in line with our forecasts. On the revenue side you can see that in the past year things have just gone very well. I hope and expect that will be the case next year. That means there's just money left. To do even more than that now seems complicated to me again, precisely because you want to monitor the balance between making very substantial investments in society, in all those areas where the importance is widely shared here, and getting things in order, I have to say, from the treasury and public finances, and finally giving a piece of relief, which also costs a number of billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u107	Very briefly, Mr. Schalk, because we're going to suspend now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u108	Investments in all kinds of special things in the future can only be made if enough money comes in. So you could say: share that, divide that; make investments in the future, but also provide extra grain in the barn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u109	I'd like to agree. I'll come back after dinner on exactly those subjects. I come back to the question about defence, care and education, which Mr Postema asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u111	The next item is the continuation of the General Financial Reviews. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I was working on a tail of topic 2, budgetary policy, going over in topic 3, budget and expenditure. There were two omissions from the first term that I would like to repair very quickly. Mr Van Kesteren has asked for cooperation at European level and then broader than just the Hanseatic coalition. In his direction, I would like to say that the practical translation of everything I have appointed for the break will continue again this week, because I have Mr Centeno here tomorrow and on Thursday I will be in Berlin and in Paris in the afternoon. With Mr Rinnooy Kan I had an exchange of views on the structural balance. I told you, it's a volatile size. I knew the number in the start note was just not out of my mind, but a structural balance of -0.7 was predicted for 2018. That's dried up to +0.1%. So that shows exactly how that size changes, but I didn't want to pronounce that -0,7 until I was absolutely sure about the number. There are no guarantees, but history may repeat itself in this respect. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the questions about the budget, the budgetary rules, and then I will come to the expenditure side. I would also like to thank Mr Postema for his comments on the Millions Note. He asked specifically about the risk section. Indeed, it has not been included as a separate chapter. The aim of this is to put that forward in its entirety. As an annex to the Millions Note, we have also included a public finance shock test, precisely in order to give the attention that you should give to those issues for which he rightly calls attention. Mr Wever asked about the legibility of the documents. That is a very fair question. We do our best to make not only the pieces themselves, but also other texts as readable as possible. It is also very well watched by language experts whether it is not too much jargon. I have to say, it's complicated from time to time. For example, I am talking about an emergency fund, but I really should be talking about the ESM. A term like MFK will also not immediately translate most viewers at home into what that means. So that remains a task. We try to accommodate this as much as possible, not only by putting an even more readable version on the website, but also by expressing in videos and so on what that means. Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have dealt with budgetary policy to a large extent. Mr Postema asked about another major and important issue, namely the gas decision and also the sustainability balance. We need to pull two things apart. On the one hand, as a cabinet, we have said that we want to cover the loss of gas revenues. That is also what we agreed on in the coalition agreement. Of course, that is not easy, but I think it is good to stick to that agreement, precisely because of the maintenance of public finances in the long term, although that was, of course, still quite complicated. As far as I am concerned, the gas decision we have taken as a cabinet is really balanced and sensible. That is really taken with the question in mind: what is good for the region? But the account that comes back to that has to be paid. The second side of the gas decision has to do with damage and strengthening. It runs through the NAM. Of course, Mr Postema is right: that does not go directly through the state budget, so we do not have to cover that. This is in the balance, so it does damage the long-term budget. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Wever asked about the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u113	Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u114	Just to be specific about that. In the Millions note I read on page 25 that the sustainability deficit is now there. The sustainability estimate leads to a sustainability deficit of 0.4% of GDP. That forecast does not yet take into account the decision to stop gas extraction in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u115	Again, it's two things. Firstly, there is the loss of revenue. Mr Postema can read it back in my response to the Council of State: our conviction as a cabinet is, as I say to Mr Rinnooy Kan, that we have not covered that loss with incidental, but with structural windfalls. Of course, this has led to intensive dialogues in the cabinet: how do we do that in a sensible way? But this does not adversely affect the sustainability balance. That's different with the piece of damage and strengthening. The bill of damages and reinforcement is still partly unknown. That was not included in the last time the sustainability deficit was calculated. That's the last time we're gonna do that at the start note or around the cabinet formation. It is good to say to Mr Postema that I have undertaken to ask the Chamber to ask the Planning Bureau to make that sum again, so to calculate the sustainability deficit again. I'll make sure this is shared with the First Chamber as well. That's what we're gonna do somewhere between now and next year's Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u116	Finally. I appreciate the latter anyway. We'd like to see that. But I'm a little confused. I quoted the Millions note, which shows that it's not in it yet. As a result, the government will lose revenue in the future. So it is really about the first part of my question. From the Minister's answer, I conclude that although it was not included in the calculation of the sustainability deficit, the Minister now has a different opinion on it or at least has a different interpretation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u117	It's two times two things to say completely. I have just talked to Mr Rinnooy Kan about the balance year after year, but also about the structural balance and the sustainability deficit. That sustainability deficit, which hardly ever comes back in the Millions Note, has not been calculated for some time. I told the House of Representatives that I could well imagine that it would be useful to do that again. In the course of 2019 we will do so. As far as the shelf life deficit is concerned, I do not foresee any additional damage because we are shutting down the tap. We compensate the lost income of the crane with structural windfalls. That doesn't cause any damage to the balance. This is different for the additional expenses for damage and strengthening. They run through the NAM. That is also about not childish amounts. Those run, that's the deal, in the balance. I'm sure that will have an effect. I hope that's how I explained it. I'll make sure those calculations end up in the First Chamber, too. Mr. Chairman. Mr Wever asked about the disappointing accres development. It's an answer from and-and anyway. It is good to point out once again that in this expansive budget and the high level of extra expenditure we are spending in many areas, the municipalities, the provinces and the Empire are also sufficiently well-off. At the same time you see that if there is underutilization, given the "step up, down stairs" system, municipalities are confronted with a somewhat lower acres. At the same time it is true that at the time that money in later years goes some way through cash slides is simply spent again to later years, there will be a plus on top. We should avoid the impression that this causes large-scale problems for municipalities. Of course, I also had that conversation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At first we asked ourselves this question very seriously, but it is not the case that there are many signs that this will cause problems for municipalities. Mr. Chairman. One more comment on budgetary policy. Mr Van Strien spoke of a jubilee vote. As far as that misunderstanding is concerned, I would really like to take it away. I have already tried to do that when offering the Millions note in the House of Representatives. The Dutch economy is doing really well. Partly because of that, the rich budget is doing really well. But I also said at that time that I would like to repeat here that we, as politicians, fit modesty when it comes to the question of who is responsible for economic growth and who is responsible for how it will then take place, including in the budget. This has to do with foreign countries to a large extent. We have a whole international economy. This has also to a large extent to do with the strength and foundations of the Dutch economy. Politicians can help and can also do the opposite. But the economy is, to a large extent, responsible for this, if I may put it that way. In the House of Representatives, I also made it very clear that I see all kinds of risks to the budget, such as the Brexit and the trade war, which has also been mentioned. I also mentioned Italy, although this was still to a lesser extent the case at the time. In any case, there are risks that are also contained in the budget itself, such as the ever-expanding care costs. I'm gonna say something about that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u118	I've made two points in growth. Point one is that this growth for 0.7% is entirely due to population growth. This 0.7% is not growth, at least not per capita. The second point is purchasing power. I have paid a great deal of attention to purchasing power, because it is lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u119	I would like to say a lot more about purchasing power. I am hesitant, because I understand that Mr Van Strien considers this subject to be important. Let me just park it for a little while. If Mr van Strien thinks he's gonna get rid of it, then of course I'd like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. Let's look at the spending side and the investment in society. Mr Rinnooy Kan and others have already said that a lot is being spent. That is because we want to reduce the burden and invest significantly in society: in education, in defence, in security and in science and innovation. In this light, Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether we take the signals from the public sector seriously. Absolutely, we take them very seriously. You can also see that we have already taken a lot of steps in that regard. Not only have we already made substantial investments in a number of policy areas, but we have also concluded collective agreements in a number of sectors, where salaries are rising considerably. This applies across the board, but in particular to primary education, where salaries increase significantly. Then where does this find its limit? Mr Rinnooy Kan has rightly pointed that out, I think. We are investing a great deal, but there is also, of course, an important point in the comments of the Council of State, the Planning Bureau and others who say: even more would not be wise; also with this scenario, be careful whether it is not too much. Mr Ester and Mr Wever asked about underutilization. As a cabinet, we try to make the best possible estimate, with the assistance of the Planning Bureau, of public expenditure. But that estimate is never perfect. We are in the not very common situation that the cabinet started very late in the year, with relatively little lead time for the plans that got hammered in 2017, but that should be implemented immediately from 2018. That's one. Two. The cabinet really invests very heavily, especially in the first year, in all these important topics in society. This means that it is not the case that my colleagues in the cabinet do not really want to spend that money. If I have a conversation with the Minister of Defence or with the Minister and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure, they are very happy that they have that 100% end-of-year margin, which allows them to move a lot. It's not like they don't want it. But some things just won't be spent in a prudent, sensible way. With the latter, of course, I am immediately in the Compatibility Act and in my own responsibility. I am not trying in any way to cut corners or avoid spending on colleagues. We are all in favour of budgetary rules, but we are all in favour of spending. The obligation under the Compatibility Act is only that we spend it in a sensible way. And you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u120	I understand that very well. Thanks for the answer. But one day, of course, there will have to be a time when these funds will be spent. They should benefit the public sector, infrastructure and defence. I also understand that this is a bit behind schedule, but I assume that these funds will be spent in the course of 2019 in the way we agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u121	For precision: the Defence Ministers and I&W are both blessed with a 100% year-end margin. They can therefore simply take 100% of the money for the various budget items to the next year. That means a risk to me as Minister of Finance, because they have their normal expenditure and also the 100% cash-flow, and I must do so in a sensible way within the framework. But they have a lot of space. The other ministers have the so-called 1% year-end margin. So they can at least give us a piece. And Mr Ester will certainly have seen this is the last piece of my reply, Mr...............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u122	Thank you for that, but can you say in one or two sentences what your own power of direction is? As a parliament, we have said that these funds should be spent on defence, catching up, infrastructure, education or other matters. These funds are being transferred because there may be good reasons why they are not being spent in that year. But what is your directing power to say: it really needs to be taken in 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u123	It's actually the other way around. It is up to the trade ministers to direct and put in place implementation plans that will allow them to spend that money in a sensible way. My responsibility stems mainly from the Compatibility Act. As Mr Ester knows, it has been tightened up at the beginning of 2018. This means that the trade ministers have an obligation to provide a sound plan for investment and that I must then check it. Others have also asked for insight into quality. This is a first and important step. Actually, it's the other way around. The least I can do is actively think about it and make sure there are no unnecessary obstacles, but my perception is that those are not felt in my direction by the others either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u124	I would also like to come back to the issue of public sector investment. It is a pity in itself that the money that was reserved for this year is not going to be spent entirely. But the Minister makes the point that I have of course heard many times that this cabinet is already doing so much. It is then said that it amounts to 6 billion and that much investment is being made in the public sector. There is even talk of an expansive budget. In particular, the Minister mentioned salaries in primary education. If you ask the teachers themselves, they don't think that goes far enough. In addition to salaries, however, there is also an enormous workload in the public sector. This applies in particular to the education and care sectors. This is not only a problem for the people who are affected and who are suffering from this workload, but it also puts pressure on the quality of education and care. What does the Minister think about that? How does he look at that? And what does the Cabinet intend to do about it? Does it do enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u125	This is, of course, a subject which has the attention of the trade ministers. It is true that the problems in education, which are then shared problems for the different categories of education, and the problems in defence or justice and security, for example, are just as different. What I wanted to highlight, and what has really been the commitment of the cabinet, is translating the broad wish into society last year, and also the broad shared desire in the political arena, not only of the four coalition parties but also of others, to invest heavily in society. There are people who say: this is the cabinet that has spent the most since the Den Uyl cabinet. I must honestly say that I have never dared to recalculate, but we are making very substantial investments. At the end of this cabinet period we invest on top of the so-called basic path 14.5 billion. This is a combination of expenditure and relief. We are therefore talking about very substantial amounts of money. But again, that is independent of the autonomous increase in care and education. That also offers room for doing more than just raising salaries. I believe that Mr Van Apeldoorn is also aware that this is happening, for example in education, but also in a number of other colleagues. In addition, they just look at what a teacher or a policeman needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u126	Expenditure and relief are two different things. The Minister just said in his reply that there are, of course, limits to investing in the public sector. He also pointed to colleagues of mine. At that time we were talking about the sustainability deficit and public finances, with the argument: we would like to do more, but there are simply limits to that. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether, in the end, it is not just a political choice, even if you want to stick to the current budget surplus. At the same time, this cabinet chooses to greatly reduce the burden on business, for example, which makes a lot of profit. The Minister himself just mentioned that. This costs a structural cost of 3.3 billion per year per 2021. This has nothing to do with the sustainability deficit or the budgetary surplus or public finances. It's a choice where you invest the money and who you give it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u127	Of course, but they're all choices. The privilege, but also the dilemma of the politician is making choices in scarcity. That is exactly what the cabinet has tried to do as well as possible within those three frameworks or foundations that I indicated at the beginning. The cabinet chooses purposefully and as far as I am concerned also well-reasoned for all three. We choose to invest very heavily in society and reduce the burden. I would like to add to Mr Van Apeldoorn that I am going to say even more about the reduction of charges, but that this reduction is particularly affecting citizens rather than business. And the final point is that we also want to get public finances in order, because we also think that is important, especially in a period of high economic growth. So it's en-and-and-and. I see immediately that Mr Van Apeldoorn would have made other choices if he and his party were to run the country, but this is what this cabinet thinks is wise. As far as I am concerned, this is also a very well-preserved story, precisely in the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u128	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u129	Finally, on this point. It is clear that we are making other choices. We're not gonna get out of that tonight either. What matters to me and what I wanted to highlight is that when he is questioned about this, the Minister is constantly shielding himself from putting public finances in order. My point is that it's not about that, because there's plenty of money. There are plenty of financial opportunities. In this case, the government only chooses to give a significant tax relief to business through the reduction of corporate tax. This is a political choice that has nothing to do with the sustainability or maintenance of public finances. In other words, more money could be invested in salaries and reduced labour pressure for workers in health care, education and so on, if you make other choices. The argument of public finances is therefore not appropriate in this case, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u130	Yet again: I have tried to point out that the cabinet invests very heavily in society and thus in all kinds of ministries. But I would also like to say the following to Mr Van Apeldoorn, in all friendship but also in all sharpness. If, for example, I add the counter-budgets that have been submitted to the House of Representatives or the SP election programme, then there are indeed other choices to be made, but indeed also to the detriment of public finances. That's a choice, too. The cabinet made the choice as I just outlined it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u131	When it comes to the workload in education and care, for example, it is clear that financial resources could contribute to solving this problem. But it is clear that other elements also play a role. I assume the Minister agrees with me. Regulations can play a role. It can cause work pressure. And the shortage of workers who fit into these vacancies............................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that our society is facing very different problems than just the financial ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u132	I absolutely agree with Mr Ten Hoeve. I think, quite frankly, that something which is relatively difficult to express in money, but which is extremely important in the work of everyone, is about appreciation, including the appreciation given to employees, regardless of which sector they are active in. I just wanted to argue that, in addition to the strictly financial cuts in salaries, there is also financial space to do other things. I would like to argue that the issue of workload also has a very strong focus, particularly on the ministers in the VWS ministry but also elsewhere, on the police and in a slightly different way on the defence side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u133	I meant very specifically that the shortage of labour which is beginning to play a major role in these sectors poses problems for our society which should be solved in a different way. I have put that forward in my contribution in the first term. I said that they should lead us to strive not to cause even more scarcity. Does the Minister agree? Or will he come back to that later? That seems to me to be an important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u134	I would like to solve it urgently, but the question that Mr Ten Hoeve is asking is complicated. I'm gonna go over the scarcity we're seeing first. We see this scarcity in part of the public sector. This has to do with all kinds of things, and undoubtedly also with working conditions and with the point at which we have entered the business cycle. The discussion also focused on the question of why there is no increase in purchasing power. Shouldn't salaries be further up? Apart from what I am about to say about this, I do believe that the cabinet has set a good example in it with substantially increased collective agreements in education, with a state cao and with other collective agreements that we have concluded or are about to be concluded, for example with the police. This does not solve the problem of scarcity in its entirety. The Secretary of State and I also have a very specific shortage problem in our own home when it comes to IT staff. We can't solve that all at once. But what we do does help. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u135	Finally, Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u136	I take it the Minister would like to return to the tax on profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u137	I promise on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u138	First of all, I agree with what Mr Ten Hoeve said about other than financial factors which also affect the workload and the pleasure of work. The question to the Minister is the following. He indicated, also in the written reply, that we are moving from a planned investment of 4.8 billion in 2019 to 6.5 billion in 2021. The planned expenditure for infrastructure, safety and care in 2021 also indicates which part of the work pressure relief will go to the staff. Can that picture also be given for 2019, also in the light of what you just said about expenditure that may not happen in 2019? What is left of the 4.8 billion envisaged for 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u139	There are two things. As far as the first part of the question is concerned, if Mr Binnema wishes to know in detail, that answer should really be given in writing. Then, for example, I would also have to examine the collective agreements on which documents relate to the main part of the wage and which, for example, on secondary working conditions. But there are also a lot of things that ask for research. So I should at least park it, by the way, with the note that it is not so easy to divide it all into great detail. But I'd like to do that. I can answer the second part of the question. This is about a possible under-utilisation in 2019. That is how I understood the question. We have now had quite a start-up period. We have significant underspending in 2018. I cannot rule out the fact that under-utilisation will happen again in 2019, but it is realistic to expect that if it does occur, which in any case will be significantly smaller than this year, precisely because many plans have naturally been launched.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u140	Also in view of the first-term question I asked about effectiveness, efficiency and the basis for the proposals that are being made: how far will that be for the 4.8 billion in 2019? I understand that you can indicate it on the main lines for 2021. About 60% of the investments envisaged would go to staff and work pressure relief. You do not need to find out in detail before 2019, but to what extent is the effectiveness, the effectiveness sufficiently substantiated for the proposals under discussion in 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u141	I am very pleased that Mr Binnema is asking for this, because that is, of course, a subject that is often a little undersnowing, but which has been brought more on the agenda by the Compatibility Act, and also by the Quality Insight operation. My observation is also that this change in the Compatibility Act is beginning to bear fruit. In the beginning of 2018, I regularly received questions from colleagues from the cabinet about why this was necessary in terms of efficiency and effectiveness and whether they should not skip them. That kind of phone calls have dried up during the year. So that's a process we're slowly cutting in. That test lies with the trade ministries themselves, and then with the Ministry of Finance. That does happen to use classic Lubberian working road. Because there comes a time when we also have to look together to see, for example, whether we can achieve more uniformity in those assessments. That would be helpful. In any case, you can compare a budget line at VWS with some of the criteria for a budget line at SZW. In other parts it may not be possible again. So there is still a lot of work to be done, but the first most important steps have been taken as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at the point of Mr Schalk asking me about NATO and defence. He himself recalled the very substantial investments made by the cabinet, rising from my head up to 1.51 billion at the end of this cabinet period. Insofar as Defence money is not spent this year, it will be at the top of the funds in either 2019 or 2020 or 2021. Also in line with my previous answer: according to the Compatibility Act, I naturally also look at the effectiveness of these plans. The last part of the answer is as follows. The Minister of Defence has already indicated that before 31 December she would also like to give NATO an insight into how these plans are being implemented and what percentages are attached to them. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the education, at the Potema motion. I would like to clear up a misunderstanding about this. The cabinet looked very closely at the Potema motion, initially but also in the second instance at the appropriate time: in the spring decision-making process. That is when all the wishes and all the problems of the cabinet as a whole and the individual ministers come to the table. At that time, the cabinet came to the conclusion that there was no room for resolving this particular problem. I do not have the text of the motion in my head anymore, but I think it was about 'visiting' or 'examination'. That's the type of word I remember from a year ago's motion. And we have indeed complied with that, as we take every motion that has been adopted very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u142	I doubt that one-after-last thing. Because the latter: of course you take every motion that has been adopted seriously. You are so wise; you have not been able to show that you have made any effort at all. We also reported in a second letter to you that we have that concern. This would be a kind of analysis, indicating which cases have been looked at. Then it would have been said that maybe something would have been, but... But we got very short messages from you back. In fact, the debate we have just had was also about the missing part that we would have liked to have seen from you. That was about the fact that 2.9 billion was paid out into the state treasury, just because you didn't know what to do with the money. We're asking for a cover of 183 million. I know that this amount is structural and that the 2.9 billion that the minister simply did not get spent is occasional, but still, that 183 million fits in more than fifteen times. So we would have been 15 years further away with the crappy cuts in education. That is the kind of creativity, or at least a certain consideration of it, we would have expected from the Minister at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u143	Several reactions are now coming to my mind. One of the first things Mr Postema said was that it was a very short note. I immediately had to think of Churchill, who sometimes said he had little time and that he had therefore only written a long letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u144	That is also attributed to Vestdijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u145	It was Woodrow Wilson.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u146	That's what you see. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say the following to Mr Postema. We took a serious look at it the first time, but I think I remember a letter coming back from the Chamber which at least included the names of OSF and Mr Postema. I concluded from that that the others who had initially co-written were contented with the first answer. However, we have also worked very hard for the second answer. The Ministers for Education, as Mr Postema knows, have also looked at that answer and they were in agreement with it. Again, we make choices in scarcity. We have solved a large part of the legacy of this problem and we are investing very heavily in education. That's the choice the cabinet made. I really think that's justifiable. Once again, I have looked very seriously at this motion and I have also wanted to involve the trade ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u147	I note that neither the two letters from the Minister, nor the third letter from the two heads of government of Education, nor now in this debate any attempt has been made to cover this gap, other than by words such as 'in the great balance' and 'in the national finances'. I note that there is a great deal of room in the national budget, both occasionally and structurally, and that there are also many options to opt for education and to eliminate this cut, many of which agree with my group that this is an ugly, unnecessary cut. Minister, please convince me it's not unwillingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u148	What has happened should not be underestimated. Mr Postema should not fail to do so either. The motion calls for a very serious look at this. I can see that we have not yet dealt with it in material terms. In this sense, Mr Postema is not getting what he might have hoped for. But this is ultimately the choice. As far as I am concerned, we have certainly been able to support this choice. I would remind you once again that very substantial investment is being made in education. Mr Postema did a bit scornful about this, even in the debate with Mr Rinnooy Kan, but there is a lot of investment in education. The amounts exceeded more than 1.5 billion in some years of this cabinet period. Those are amounts that we have not seen in years. They come up on the so-called basic path. So we really need to free ourselves from the fiction that OCW would have a big problem. A large part of what is sometimes called "the hole of Jet" is called "that its not my words "is solved" during the cabinet formation. Then there was a lot of money in various budgets, especially in the defence budget and in the education budget. As far as I'm concerned, that's a very defensive story. Once again, we have looked very closely at this motion and weighed it. We have come to the conclusion that the balance we have reached must be maintained. Of course everyone wants something extra, but we think that this should be the case when making choices in scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u149	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u150	Finally, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u151	Mr. Chairman. I note that sending a very short note twice, without any justification why it is not possible, does not meet the test we have to do with each other. The Minister doesn't take that motion seriously enough. I am extremely disappointed about that. For the moment, I am even more disappointed by the fact that the 2.9 billion was underspent and that the Minister of Crazy managed to do nothing but pour it into the public debt. Just now he has indicated that this has been a significant under-utilisation and that it cannot be ruled out that this will be the case again in 2019; not such a large amount, but still... Can the Minister of Finance, now that this money is available and on the shelf, not make a substantive attempt to get rid of that austerity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u152	Yet again two reactions. I would like to recommend to all Members who have missed the letters that they should certainly read that second letter again, on content, but also length. I think I have a reasonable sense of the average length and the average content of letters. I think that these letters, especially the second one, are not bad at that. I think that's important to mark. Secondly, I have said that, from my role, I think it is wise to say that this year there is indeed significant under-utilisation, but there are a number of reasons for this. I would also like to point out that the spending frameworks of the ministers are maximum frameworks. We don't need the money. It's complicated sometimes, but the money really doesn't have to be eaten. Ultimately, it is about taxpayers' money, and our job is to deal with it in a sensible way. I have just said, among other things, to Mr Ester, that it is not possible to rule out the possibility of underspending again next year. Why? Because it is unwise in my role to rule out this kind of thing in advance, because I see the debate coming next year: you promised that...? It is therefore only prudent to want to ensure that the Chamber has the maximum effort to spend that money, but also to outline that there may be some under-utilisation again. Again, in my view, this under-spending is probably of a very different order than under-spending this year. I will stay with Mr Postema, because I have arrived at the interest rate increase on the study advance. We all see now what happens to the ten-year interest rate. Mr Postema made a few comments. It might be good to look again at what exactly happened. We have abolished the basic grant. The cabinet then reversed the abolition of the basic grant for the first year. The previous cabinet has chosen with a number of other parties to abolish the basic grant. The current cabinet chooses to reverse that in the first year. That's what the raise in interest rates is about. I also think that this is a reasonable balance. However, I agree with Mr Postema that this would not have been necessary if the basic grant had not been abolished. In that case, the cabinet would probably not have gone over this. Then there is a second point in the direction of Mr Postema. He himself made the point in one of his interruptive debates about the state-law side of the whole and about the issues he could and could not be addressed to. This also applies to his comment on the CDA Congress. I am a simple servant of the Crown, so I must leave Mr Buma alone with the task he was given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u153	I am surprised that the Finance Minister speaks with conviction about abolishing the basic grant. That is not at all the issue here. This is about legal tuition. I think I was quite clear about this, last year, just like my colleague Jopie Nooren in the legislative proposal on the reduction of tuition fees, and now again. It is not about the abolition of the basic grant; it is about the fact that the tuition fee has gone down and that it has been financed in a very different place, the fine print in the budget, by means of an increase in interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u154	I understand Mr Postema in such a way that he was concerned about the increase in interest rates and the resulting interest charges for students. That's how I understood him. The government agreement agreed to use the ten-year interest rate instead of the five-year interest rate for the study advance. That's what's actually changed. If you look closely at the coalition agreement, you can see that this has a certain effect, especially in the long term. That is money which is then again opposed to the loans that have been made. I do not see what else I can say in the direction of Mr Postema. I do not see why the cabinet should withdraw this proposal, not even with the hink-step-jump to the CDA Congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u155	Shortly, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u156	It is my second speech, Mr President, and an important point for the PvdA Group. If the Minister does not want to listen to his own members, then I will try. I'm gonna take a look at the fourth quarter report from the General Thesauri. Only in that quarter will there be 48 billion in transactions. This is accompanied by different interest rates. My question to the Minister of Finance and the Cabinet is, if you are actually talking about a social loan system, where borrowing itself should not be burdened with an extra price in terms of interest, so that the less fortunate students can easily use what our higher education offers, why not choose to keep that interest low, preferably at zero and finance it instead of pretending that the cabinet should borrow on the capital market and then transfer that loan to our students?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u157	We're going around a little bit in the same circle. We have yet again reached the CDA Congress, with a reproach, but certainly in this house where state law is written in capital letters, I can only remind Mr Postema of my role once again, although of course I have a political colour, as a member of the cabinet. All kinds of assignments are handed out to these and others, but I understood this assignment as an assignment to the group chairman of the CDA in the Lower House. The total palette of education, which Mr Postema and I have also outlined, is a total palette of considerations, in which it has been the strong desire of the coalition to invest heavily in education. My observation is that we are absolutely doing the same. In addition, we had a problem to solve from the past. That's right. This was the wish of several parties to partially compensate for the abolition of study funding. Another piece of palette was the interest increase on the study advance. I think this is a balanced package. On balance, this results in a substantial investment in education. That has been an explicit choice of the cabinet. I think that we can work very well with that. I'm gonna stick to the education. Mr Rinnooy asked if I could promise that higher education will not be affected by cuts in the coming years. I very much hope that in general we do not have to cut back, but all the children are just as sweet to me. As soon as I start excluding someone here in advance, I already know how the Council of Ministers will go on Friday. I don't think I should. I think Mr Rinnooy Kan understands this too, however much I share with him that this subject is of great importance and that it is an investment in society in the longer term. Mr Postema mentioned the WNT. As far as I can tell, we have no ambitions to revise the WNT. Mr Wever asked about the revenue from reducing the regulatory burden. That is an ambition of the cabinet and certainly an important ambition. However, it has been deliberately agreed that the cabinet does not pursue a generic reduction target. We all know the history when it comes to generic objectives of this kind. Instead, we try to do it through departmental programmes. The Secretary of State for EZK informed the Lower House of this last summer. I can ensure, if useful, that Mr Wever and, of course, the rest of the Chamber receive this material. This brings me to another, also important issue on the expenditure side, and that is the cost of care. Several speakers asked about it, but last year in particular Mr De Graaf asked a lot of questions about it. Despite the small debate I had with Mr Postema, I would very much like to endorse what he said in the first term, namely that it is the task of ensuring excellent care that is accessible to everyone. Thirdly, I would like to add: at acceptable social costs. If you look at the costs of care in the Netherlands, you can only worry. Some people say: if you look at the entire rich budget, then in some ways care is a kind of cuckoo cub that threatens to work the others out of the nest and should not. Moreover, the Ministers for Health are very aware of this. A number of specific comments. At the start of the cabinet, we have already taken measures to reduce the structural increase in healthcare costs compared to the basic path by more than 2.2 billion. That is not yet the case, and I am also referring to Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Postema. It has my explicit attention and that of the two ministers in the United States of America. We have now asked the WRR and the SER to provide us with a study on how to do this. In addition, the ministers and I are talking to a number of experts from the field about how to achieve that dual objective. What we all don't want is for us to just look at the costs. The task is precisely to ensure that this very good care in the Netherlands is really something we have that should also be available to everyone, remains affordable. I am happy to include the Chamber in the results of that investigation and the actions that we link to it. Perhaps I could suggest to Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Postema that we continue the discussion together with the VWS ministers. I had already thanked Mr Binnema for his comments on the Compatibility Act. I'm very glad he keeps calling attention to it. I hope that this issue will remain on its agenda and on that of the Chambers, because I am convinced that this is an underexposed but very important part of the sensible spending of the citizens' money. This brings me to the fourth block on households and citizens' burdens. I will briefly comment on a number of measures. The Secretary of State will be responsible for many of the fiscal aspects of this. First of all, Mr Van Strien's speech on purchasing power. What the cabinet has, as it were, tried to do with a compass and a ruler is to ensure that purchasing power, as we have seen this summer, is made available to society as widely as possible. Those who look at the states, who see that the purchasing power improvement, in which everything is contained, of 1.5% or 1.6% on average, also concerns a very large group of Dutch. Whether they have a job or not, whether they're retired or have a job, whatever cross section you make, they're five or six categories of you know, they're all making very big progress; a total of 95%. I will not say that there is not a single year in Dutch history in which these numbers are better, but it is a lot of searching. In recent years, it has never been the case that this percentage came out and that it was so widely shared among the population. Again, all the rent increases, all the tax effects, are all in it. I say, and I repeat this, that I cannot promise this increase in purchasing power. The improvement in purchasing power, as calculated, is the best possible estimate of the cabinet's advisor on this point, the Central Planning Office. The Planning Bureau says, "This is how we think it's gonna work out." But I'm not promising anything about that, especially from my role as Minister of Finance. Mr Schalk asked whether I agree with him that the actual purchasing power is a different picture from the percentage trend. Yes and no. These statistics, of course, hide individual cases. I can't promise that there are no people for whom the percentage is slightly different. However, it is important to highlight that the calculations of the Planning Bureau show that 95% of Dutch households are making progress. That's an almost historically high percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u158	Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u159	I had a second part of an answer to Mr Schalk. Shall I finish that, Mr. Chairman? Mr Schalk also asked whether it was true that we are ultimately more expensive because the bills for energy and care go up, and then VAT. For the record, that's all in there. Of course, the Planning Bureau has taken into account what happens to the energy bill. It has taken into account what happens to the care premium. It has taken into account what happens to VAT. On the other side of course it also included in what it means on the plus side. The Secretary of State will say more about that in a moment. Because next year we will also come up with the old-age discount and a reduction in the burden on labour. So that whole package takes the Planning Agency. This is then made up of statistics, which falls down in the five or six different categories.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u160	Of course, I agree with the Minister that it says that everyone is making progress. At least that's what we see in the purchasing power pictures on page 24 of that beautiful blue book, out of my head. My argument was that at those percentages you think the single earner is making even more progress. We calculate that exactly, after deduction of taxes and with all premiums and so on. Then you come to a very different outcome. I did the math. My question was whether the Secretary of State can promise that we will at least get an overview of this. This gives a different picture than is obvious, with 1.6% for two-earners and 1.7% for one-earners. If you're gonna figure it out, it's just gonna have a whole different effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u161	As I have it in mind, one of the bright spots for those in this house who stand up for the elderly in particular was that they come out of this statistics well. One of the bright points for those who stand up for the single earners was that they too are well off the statistics. I would very much like to return the table or have the Secretary of State reflect on it, but I have just mentioned the elderly and pensioners versus workers. I did not just mention the one- and two-earners, but we also looked for the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u162	Sure. The Minister says that he has sought a balance, and I have read it. I praised the government for that last year when it came to the coalition agreement. Looking further at what it actually delivers, however, I came to a few calculations. I submitted it. They show that there is still a big difference when you look not only at the percentages, but also at the hard euros. You can't eat percentages. You can't buy anything for that either. For euros, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u163	That is true, but then you also found out that a percent for someone who earns €30,000 in euros is something different than for someone who earns €60,000, and something else for someone who earns €90,000. It is the fate of statistics that translates into hard euros in different amounts. I am afraid that I cannot solve that problem with Mr Schalk at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u164	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u165	One final remark: that is exactly what I have done. Actually, I've straightened it out. That was about two earners making €40,000 together and a earner earning €40,000 in his uppie. That's exactly what you can compare. The two-earner has an additional €607 purchasing power and the one-earner five hundred and so much. There's just money in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u166	For the sake of precision, here's the thing. In the various categories and the way in which the average purchasing power development of 1.5% or 1.6% net is falling, my impression is that a earner does not come out worse than two-earners. I cannot promise that there will be no category where there may be a significant difference. Given the statistics, the opposite will be true. We should take that with us. As far as I'm concerned, this is really a balanced story. I recognize, of course, that Mr Schalk is once again calling for attention to be given to a very important point, which we have taken very strongly into account in the coalition agreement. That is that we must ensure that the gap between two and one earners is at least not widened and preferably reduced. The cabinet has also taken steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u167	One final comment, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u168	All the way to the end now, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u169	Thank you, Madam President. This is exactly why I asked for that state. This will enable us to see at the various levels of income whether what the Minister hopes has actually happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u170	I do not think the latter was a question, but a comment. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u171	No, Mr. Schalk. You have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u172	Hope makes life, Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on fast. I think I have answered Mr Nagel's question about the purchasing power and the prediction. Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Van Apeldoorn both pointed to the remaining wages. That's interesting. I think that's what we talked about last time. That is indeed a situation that we, as a cabinet, would like to see different. I think there are two more points to be made. The first is that as a cabinet we have really done ours in concluding collective agreements that are generous. Well, generous is such a generous word, but they do fit in with this period of high economics. Let me put it this way. Most experts are also convinced that the moment of catching up with regard to wages is imminent, precisely because the scarcity of the labour market is becoming more and more felt. See also the point I made earlier: we are moving towards the lowest unemployment since 2001. I have already endorsed that we all see that, if you look back 20 or 30 years, you would actually have expected that the development of wages would have deployed faster. Moreover, this development is always lagging behind after a phase of crisis or recession. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Van Apeldoorn and the inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u173	Before the Minister gets there, I would like to touch on what he has just said about wages which are structurally lagging behind growth, since 2000, I believe. I was wondering if the Minister had an analysis of the causes of that problem and perhaps thought about what else the government could do. I myself thought that this could also fall under the heading of labour market and flexibilisation. Maybe he'll get there separately. If not, I have a question about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u174	I think I just gave you a first piece of that analysis. There is certainly something more to be said about what is happening in the field of labour and what is happening in the area of capital. I might add that we have, of course, looked at whether this is a Dutch or an international problem, or perhaps I should say: a Dutch or an international development. You will see that we in the Netherlands have gained quite a lot ofzzp'ers over the past five to ten years. At the same time, you can see that the trend of falling back on wages in the Netherlands is not worse or different than in the neighbouring countries. That is what I can say about that analysis right now. I must be very mistaken if the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has also made analyses of this or sent it to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u175	My question would then be whether the Minister's analysis also raises the problem that the number of permanent jobs in the Netherlands has fallen steadily over the last ten years. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has shown this. The relationship between sure and flex, in which flexibilisation has actually increased ever more, has also put pressure on the position of trade unions. This is certainly an international trend, but many economists and labour economists agree that in the Netherlands the flexibilisation of the labour market has contributed to a particular extent to this problem and that the government, or cabinet policy, in turn, has contributed to causing the problem of flexibilisation. I would like to invite the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u176	If you compare the Netherlands with other countries, you can see that wage developments in our country are not dramatically lagging behind, but are much better looking. I think it looks a little better than in a number of other countries, but we are broadly in favour of this trend. I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that we have had manyzzp'ers in the Netherlands in particular in recent years. That does not translate into a bad score of international statistics. I think that's important to mark. The second is this. The government policy in the field of zzp is best summarized as: fixed less fixed and flexible less flexible. There is a lot more to be said about it, but I think that is a different discussion than purely that of the position of the trade unions, although of course these things are related to each other. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to another point, also from Mr Van Apeldoorn, about income inequality. In cabinet policy there are measures that, if you look at them sec, are leveling. And there are measures in the coalition agreement, which are part of the cabinet policy, which are de-levelling. You can argue that the two-wheel system leads to less progressiveness and vice versa you can also argue that the reduction in labour costs and the general reduction in taxation will, on the contrary, lead to more progressiveness. I have already heard from Mr Van Apeldoorn that he is not enthusiastic about all aspects of the government agreement and government policy. But when he looked at the gini coefficient, he must have jumped a hole in the air together with his group, because it shows that inequality in the Netherlands is not increasing any further. That's because of government policy. Had we gone through the basic path, the income inequality would not have deteriorated much, but a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u177	Apart from the fact that the gini coefficient is not always the best measure of inequality, if you look at the extremes for example, if you take the top 10 % and the bottom 10 %, it already looks very different. But apart from that, according to purchasing power figures, where you can also ask all kinds of questions in itself, it is a fact that incomes up to 115% of the statutory minimum wage improve 1.1% and that the other quintiles, the other groups, improve 1.6% to 1.7%? This is evident from the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau and it was read in the Macro Economic Exploration. This is in itself a de-levelling that is not only the result of the introduction of the flat tax, but simply reflects the total picture. So that's a difference of income after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u178	The attack on gini statistics, to be honest, does not seem to me to be the strongest point in Mr Van Apeldoorn's speech, because I imagine that, if the gini had deteriorated, Mr Van Apeldoorn would have walked to the microphone here with the gini in his hand and had said: 'this is a disgrace' and 'how is the Minister going to solve this?' I could have understood that better than putting aside this highly accepted international measure in two sentences. I do not think that this does justice to statistics, but it does not do justice to the situation in the Netherlands either. But I would also like to say a few words about those five or six different categories in that purchasing power picture. In that you see two things. First of all, you can see that the lower group too, and again: that has been very conscious of the cabinet, which is making a great deal of progress. In the August decision-making process, we have been turning the buttons even further to ensure that this group would go even further. That's what we've done in addition. At the same time, the government policy, in the form of the government agreement, has decided that we want to make work more rewarding. It is a relatively small difference, but there is some difference in that lower quintile compared to the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u179	Very briefly on this point. Of course, we're glad the gini coefficient isn't going up. My point is that the picture is ultimately more complex and that you should also look at other standards of inequality. Moreover, the gini coefficient is also about long-term predictions. We'll just have to see if they come out. The fact is that the flat tax is now being introduced and that it is deleveling. That's what my question was about. I now hear the Minister confirm: yes, it is 1.1% for the lowest incomes and it is more for the higher incomes. In this sense, therefore, inequality increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u180	No, Mr President, no and no: both with regard to the gini and that it would only be forward looking and with regard to the thermometer in current policy. Again, the ginistatistics, which I believe were also in the documents of the Planning Bureau, is simply an internationally very respected and accepted measure, which you see changing over time. Then you will see that the government policy ensures that the very balanced and very levelled situation we have in the Netherlands, which I think we all think is acceptable in the Netherlands, continues. Cabinet policy keeps us more or less where we were. With the basic path, it was just for people with a small scholarship light that got worse. So we really shouldn't make any misunderstandings about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u181	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u182	Yes, finally, on this point. I understand that, Mr. Chairman. But for a moment, because the Minister is always talking about the gini coefficient. I didn't mean to put that measure aside as irrelevant. I base myself on the figures given in the Millions Note and Macro Economic Recognition. That is what I read, and the Minister has now confirmed to me twice that the lowest incomes will improve 1.1% in purchasing power calculations and the middle income and higher incomes will improve 1.6% and 1.7%. That is an indication of inequality, even in percentage terms. If you were to calculate it in hard euros, the difference would be much greater. Those are the hard figures from the Millions Note and Macro Economic Recognition. I do not think the Minister is denying that either, so I just wanted to clarify that for the record. That is separate from the further story about the gini coefficient and whether that is the best measure or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u183	Perhaps I should simply conclude that Mr Van Apeldoorn and I disagree. Of course, I also base myself on the numbers in the Millions Note. I honestly do not have much to add, Mr President. So I am eager to go to Mr Nagel and the pensioners and the indexation, if that is all right with you. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nagel uses the words that indexation would have been denied to pensioners. He is right, that is a problem which Mr van Kesteren has also drawn attention to. I must point out, however, that it is highly dependent on the specific situation of the various funds. Mr Nagel knows that like no other. I would also like to point out that, as a cabinet, we have a very limited influence on this indexing. I would like to join those who have been wise enough to leave the negotiations at the pension table, which are already complex enough, for a moment. I look at the clock: it could be that people are about to have another conversation with each other. The last thing I need to do is ride a bike through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u184	The Minister states that there are weaker pension funds and stronger ones. Yeah, that's right. The figures on the reserves I mentioned are the total reserves. They're just from StatLine, from the CBS. So in ten years' time we will see a doubling of the total reserves to 1.338 billion. Those numbers are also just from StatLine. I have indicated that the total premiums received amount to 30 billion and that we are spending 28 billion on pensions. It hasn't been indexed for 10 years. You can't understand that, can you? Then the Minister says: yes, these are negotiations between employers, employees and pension funds. Yeah, I know, but where's that calculus rate coming from? Surely it cannot be maintained that the Minister of Finance has no influence on that interest rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u185	I think that can be maintained. I agree with Mr Van Strien that it is complicated for those concerned not to be indexed long-term. It is, by the way, one stroke more nuanced than Mr Van Strien says. When I was still working on pensions in this house, I looked at the statistics myself. Then you will see that many funds are not indexed for a number of years in a row. However, I would like to distance myself from the picture that has not been indexed over the full width for ten years. I don't think that's right. I am pleased that Mr Van Strien is following Mr Van Kesteren in the debate on indexation and that he is not just focusing on the issue of interest rates, because I think that is too short. The objective is precisely that all generations can benefit from the excellent pension system we have. Of that excellent pension system, you can say that it is in need of revision. That revision may be given a further boost tonight, but I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u186	Finally, Mr Van Strien. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. We've got a lot to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u187	I think this is a very important point, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u188	You also have your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u189	Can the Minister of Finance promise that he will actually use his influence, either for the calculation rate or for the mandatory reserves, to arrive at a more sensible outcome than the one we are currently working on? I am not concerned about him interfering in the negotiations he is not in. I am concerned about the issues he does have an influence on: the fixing of reserves and the calculation rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u190	Indeed, I am not here because I had other obligations tonight. What I can promote is that the cabinet does what is within the cabinet's capabilities. It can provide a pension system that is ready for the 21st century. Again, it is a very good system that often comes out first or second in international comparisons. However, due to a combination of reasons, including because people spend less time with the same boss, but there are many other reasons, many see that the system is in need of revision. I can promote this, but I cannot promise Mr Van Strien that I will personally deal with the interest rate or that I will make a promise in the field of non-indexation. That would really be three steps too far, that's on the funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u191	How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u192	I slalom from Mr Van Strien to Mr Van Apeldoorn and back and back again. I'm a long way away, but a lot of questions have been asked. I hurry to say that they are only of the highest quality, but they also ask for a well-founded answer. So I'm still in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u193	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, I see you want to interrupt. Allow me to ask you to give the Minister the opportunity to measure his response. You still have a second term. I really want to get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u194	I see that as an encouragement to my address. I'm moving on to the next block on reform. A large number of things that the Cabinet intends to do are reflected in the Tax Plan. The Secretary of State will say more about it later. Let me make a few specific comments that should be dropped from me. Mr Ester, Mr Van Kesteren and Mr Binnema have asked for broad prosperity and the monitor. I think the aspects are very important. Many of these aspects are rightly addressed in the Millions Note. At the same time, there are also limitations on what is and cannot be done in the Millions Note. I promised the House of Representatives, and GroenLinks in particular, that I would see how we could further shape this discussion on "welfare beyond only financial." Whether that is a thicker annex to the Millions Note, or that it has to be done in a different way, we still have to study that, I think. The cabinet is very aware that it is wise to look for a broader size than just the money. Let's be honest, even from my wallet, I'm at the forefront of admitting that it's about well-being. Prosperity is a means, but not an end in itself. Mr Van Kesteren asked about another important issue, namely self-employed persons and incapacity for work. What is very close to Mr Van Kesteren's question is that the cabinet considers it important that self-employed people make a conscious choice to insure themselves or not. Of course, this means that you wish it in particular for those at the bottom of the zzp-house. That is why the cabinet is talking to insurers to promote a better offer. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment will inform the House of the progress of these talks before his budget examination. I see that Mr Van Kesteren is gloating on this point, so I should like to leave it at that. The pension reform that Mr Ester is asking for, I think I have already summarised the reference to the negotiations that are going on. Then I'll come to a few questions about the housing market. Mr Van Kesteren asked for a response to the CPB analysis of the offer on the housing market. He's making a fair point. According to the CPB, supply elasticity has been higher in recent years than before the crisis. If this remains the case, supply is expected to adapt slowly to demand. In the State of the Housing Market 2018, which the Minister of BZK has sent to the House of Representatives, I hope that the House of Representatives will also receive an updated estimate of the housing shortage. The number that goes with it is 3.2%. That is quite considerable, especially when you realise that there are great regional differences behind it and that it can cause problems for start-ups in particular. Several Members have rightly asked for this. As for the starters, I would like to say to Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Van Strien that of course we have the National Mortgage Guarantee and that you also have a complicated dilemma here. On the one hand, we all want starters to be able to buy. On the other hand, we come from the situation in which we almost say to ourselves, but in any case very broad politically realized that we had to do something about the situation of the Netherlands as an absolute outlier in the way you could and could finance a home. Meanwhile we are back to a leverage ratio of 100%, the LTV. That still makes us one of the absolute outliers in Europe. I believe there is one other country that comes close, but you can still buy your own house in the Netherlands without bringing your own money. That's the complicated part. The best way to do that is, as far as I'm concerned, not to take too much away from that LTV. Don't take it off, I must say. I have to formulate it exactly. Don't take it off on the LTV, but build it. That is what the Minister of BZK is very busy with, of course in close contact with provincial and, above all, local authorities. Then I'll move on to the part about the climate. Mr Van Strien made a number of comments on costs, but also on the necessity. I would like to leave most of these comments on his behalf. However, I would like to highlight that the cabinet considers it crucial that we continue with the energy transition. We see that as our duty to future generations. Moreover, it is important that society as a whole should be able to experience this. I think that is what Mr Van Strien also says and that the bill does not disproportionately fall on those with a small grant. That has absolutely the attention of the cabinet. It is also important that we spend the money for climate goals in a cost-effective way. Furthermore, I would also like to say to Mr Wever, which also applies to the pension file. Mr Wiebes is very busy at a lot of tables, but he is not ready for the time being. The story of the brooding chicken also applies to this. I'm very close to that, but I don't want to get in his way. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked why... I think he'd rather be on a high-speed train than an electric car. At least that's how I understood his question. After once again consulting the Secretary of State of IenW, I can say in his direction that there is no question of one or the other, but that we are both trying. In that light it might be nice to say that I have announced earlier that I will come up with so-called green bonds. It's my explicit commitment to make that dark green. One of the things that can be included in the dark green category is not so much high-speed trains as passenger transport by rail. That does have our particular attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u195	Mr. Van Strien, you were going to ask one question, were you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u196	Yeah, that's what I said. The Minister and my party will certainly never agree on the usefulness and necessity of spending money on climate control. That's not what my question is about. My question is that we spend a lot of money on it. Does the Minister not think that this is disproportionate to our neighbouring countries? As an example, I mentioned Germany, where even lignite mines are being developed next to our border and where 40% are produced by lignite in North Rhine-Westphalia, whereas we should get rid of the gas. My question is about the ratio, the proportionality in the waste of money, I would call it 'you may call it 'anything' or the disproportionateness in the waste of money here and in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u197	In my view, Mr Van Strien encourages me to look for a European solution, in addition to many other dossiers, on the climate issue. As a cabinet, we intend to do that. This is particularly true of those countries that surround us, because we cannot solve this big problem on our own, of course. Mr Van Strien and I are in complete agreement. Mr Binnema asked about CO emissions in agriculture. With his permission, I must also refer to the climate agreement, which is still a short while away, but which we are working hard on. Mr. Chairman. Then I ended up with the last block, which includes the financial sector, but which also has many other elements in it. First of all, I have a number of comments on the financial sector. Several Members have rightly expressed their concerns about the sector. For me, it is crucial that the sector does and continues to do what is necessary in terms of stability, integrity and innovation. Although a great deal of work has been done, I would like to make it quite clear that it is fair to say that confidence in the sector has not been restored even on the initiative of my predecessor, Mr Delors. The cases that have occurred, for example in the area of money laundering, but also in the area of pay, do not help. I have to say that the good guys are not too well-spoken, because of course this does not happen at every bank. For me, the combination of stability, integrity and innovation is at least high on the agenda. I come up with a number of additional thoughts, in addition to maintaining everything that has been put into effect by my predecessor and everything that has been implemented from Europe. If it's okay, I'll bring that to the House of Representatives before the end of the year. I will make sure that the President of the First Chamber gets a copy of that too. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked in this light for the leverage ratio. At least I think it was Mr Rinnooy Kan, but I think it was Mr Van Apeldoorn too. Above all, we should not get the impression that we are now moving in the wrong direction. You can see in the Netherlands that the leverage ratio of banks has increased in recent years and that we have wanted to create additional guarantees in Europe in a number of ways. One is to a standard leverage ratio across the European Union, but then with deposits for two categories of banks: the internationally systemically relevant banks, of which we have only one in the Netherlands, and the banks that are systemically relevant in the country itself. There are, of course, a few in the Netherlands. To be honest, there is much more to be said about it, because besides that you have the discussion about a floor in certain categories, so a floor in, for example, the category of mortgages. Perhaps Mr Rinnooy Kan referred to this as the main point of profit, but I find the so-called bail-in we agreed on in June, which means that you have far more possibilities than just that leverage ratio. The interesting thing is that the President of De Nederlandse Bank, also in my talks with him, actually says that it is good that we have a much wider basket of instruments. If you look back, it's not at all that the banks with the highest leverage ratio have gotten into the least trouble. If only it were that simple, because that would be the only thing you should want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u198	That is also an important point, but I am surprised that whatever you think of that leverage ratio, there is now apparently Europe-wide, including the Netherlands, the willingness to go from 4% to 3%. How am I supposed to interpret that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u199	Let me put it together in a little more detail in the second term, because the story is really much wider than that. Then I'll just put the numbers right there. The material conclusion is that the leverage ratio, which until now has not been an obligation in the Netherlands, but an encouragement from DNB without any legal basis, has nevertheless only increased in the Netherlands. I won't say that you don't have to worry about the Dutch banks, but you can see that the Dutch banks are relatively good. In addition, we have arranged for a minimum to be set at European level. That is a real gain, because there are many banks in Europe that you should be much more concerned about than the Dutch banks. I will be able to share with Mr Rinnooy a final part of the answer on the buffers. I would like to comment on the Dutch banks, which are good to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u200	But Mr. Van Apeldoorn would like to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u201	May I finish my sentence, Mr. Chairman? Then I have Mr Rinnooy Kan at least for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u202	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u203	It is also good to exchange the fact that the Dutch banks have a lot of mortgages on their balance sheets and have not, or hardly, got into any trouble even in the depths of the crisis, while the requirements, the floors that have been constructed in the category mortgages have only become more stringent. This is not a guarantee for the rest of Europe, but it is reassuring for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u204	I understood that in the second term the Minister would like to go into the leverage ratios and put them together again. That seems very useful to me. Just for the record, because maybe he can take it with him for the second term. Last year I also asked the Minister whether the leverage ratio in Europe would be 3% or 4%. The stakes were 4% at the time. The Minister replied to me literally: 'The translation of Basel into European legislation has yet to take place. I think Mr Van Apeldoorn is aware of the commitment of the Netherlands." He meant that the stakes were 4%. Now the outcome is 3%. My question is simply: has the Netherlands not succeeded in this design and does the Minister regret it with the SP Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u205	No, Mr. Chairman. I found the package that we negotiated in May great profits, precisely because it contained a number of other elements that are much more material than an additional point on purely the leverage ratio sec. Not only do I agree with that, but many others also support it. What we got in return for this is a number of standards that are going to apply throughout Europe, with a minimum of 3% of the leverage ratio. Mr Van Apeldoorn is right about that, but you will be given a premium for systemically relevant banks. That is also important, because it is going to apply throughout Europe. Look, I will continue to work towards further raising this leverage ratio in Europe, even though I know that in practice, at least shortly after an agreement, it is quite difficult. But if I compare the situation of, let me say, 1 April with 1 June, that whole piece is going through the European Parliament now, by the way, I really think that we have reached a better point for Europe as a whole than before. So I'd rather have the situation as it is now. The alternative would have been to veto it. Then I can continue to pursue the Netherlands with the 4, but I have already arranged the 4, and then I don't get everything else. Our consideration has been well-aware of taking that whole package. I would also like to point out that this is polite in the south as a victory for the hardliners who want to build more buffers. It has not been interpreted as some kind of watery compromise. In fact, there is the conclusion that we can now proceed to risk mutualisation in the banking union. I'm not for that, but that's an important coloring, I guess. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have answered Mr Ester's question about the compass of the banks. I do not have any new comments in the direction of Mr Van Apeldoorn on the separation of utility and business banks from my previous answers and also the answers of my predecessors on that subject. Mr Ester asked me a question which I could well imagine if the recent EBA stress test was on the mild side. That stress test was carried out on 2 November. This stress test is intended to test the largest banks in the European Union for their resilience to economic shocks. In the unfavourable scenario, the EU has an average of 8.3% less growth over a three-year period. It is up to the supervisor to outline a realistic scenario. This test has passed all the banks. But I do understand Mr.Ester's gut feeling, because he will say: is a test that all banks come through, good enough? If you were to move on to EDIS, to a joint deposit guarantee scheme, you would have to go ahead with a much wider range of tests and controls, such as an AQR, an asset quality review, taking a very detailed and also extremely expensive picture of a bank's balance sheet. Then you will also have to make agreements about the NPLs, the non-performance loans that banks have on their balance sheet, and then both in terms of stock, so the piece that is now there, and in terms of flow, the piece that you may still be able to get in the future. So I do have that warning in mind. At the same time, of course, it is good news that this scenario is being endured by all those banks. Mr. Chairman. I guess I forgot a question here and there, but I've had almost everything. Last but not least, I thought I would have to answer Mr Ester's question about cash. He says it's important that cash stays in place as a means. I think he's asking if I want to be tough on that. I'm following this development very closely. That's exactly what I'm doing, because I also think it's very important, crucial, even though the acceptance of passes and the use of cards and electronic payments in the Netherlands is very high in the Netherlands. Anyone who sometimes goes abroad will immediately notice how relatively much there is done with cash that you also have to be able to pay with cash in the Netherlands. In the consultative body that is meant for this purpose, this is exactly what is being brought in on behalf of the cabinet on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u206	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, I allow one interruption. But first, Mr. Ester, because it was a question from Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u207	Could the Minister add two or three sentences to that? I indicated that we're talking about a very vulnerable group. It is also a large group that we are talking about. How is the consultative body he talks about ensuring that these kinds of groups can pay in a way that is very close to their primary skills and does not exceed their skills?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u208	Maybe one more data point in advance. At the moment, you can still pay very widely in the Netherlands with cash. I believe you can go to 95 or 96% of the retailers with various means of payment. It is, of course, important that we keep it that way. Just as it is important that an ATM can be found within a short distance of everyone. So that's what I'm putting in there. I am also going to inform the House of Representatives in more detail about this in a letter shortly. Perhaps I should add Mr. Ester to that shipping list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u209	It's true that the minister is at the end of his story, or almost?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u210	For a moment, I'm browsing the impressive piece of paper I've got in front of me. The Secretary of State says the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u211	As far as time is concerned, I sincerely hope that the Minister is almost at the end of his speech. You have one question, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u212	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have one question. The chairman might say that I have a second term. That's right. Then I have more points that have not been answered. Name something like the race to the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u213	It's for the Secretary of State, because it's about taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u214	I was curious about the Minister's opinion. But I have one question about the housing market. The Minister addressed the question about the sale market in detail. I did find it striking, and I hope that this is not indicative of the priority of government policy, that nothing has been said about the social rental sector and our concern about the fact that, in conjunction with the landlord levy, the reduction of interest deduction, which is desirable in itself, has the unintended effect of making the investment of housing corporations in new construction and sustainability even more difficult. Does the Minister recognise that as a problem and, if so, what would he want to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u215	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u216	I think the Secretary of State is going to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u217	I did not have the impression that I had failed in replying to Mr Van Apeldoorn, but where that might still be the case, the Secretary of State is also going to be pleased to have Mr Van Apeldoorn living with all kinds of pleasure. So that's gonna come in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u218	Mr. Rinnooy Kan also has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u219	With all due respect for the Minister's productivity, that is also exactly the subject he has not dealt with. He can do that in writing, because Mr Postema had asked for a second subject that could be written, namely what we learn from the crisis. The Minister did not say anything about this either. I think this is worthwhile, especially the observation that the production capacity of European economies is suddenly 10% lower than expected for the crisis. We should be able to learn something from that. The third, and this may be written as far as I am concerned, is the question of what is going to happen to the PEPP and what is the Dutch commitment to it. I'd like to have said that anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u220	Let me come back to that last one in second term. Look, of course, we also had an extensive exchange of views on the crisis last year. Over the last 365 days, I had the impression that this had been done satisfactorily, but I now come to the conclusion that it may not have been entirely successful. Let me study on that for a while, because just repeating what I said last year, I don't think is helpful. I am going to say something about it or I will come back to it in writing in the second period. I should like to point out to Mr Rinnooy Kan that I have also philosophized about this idea with the planning agency, but there is some hesitation here and there as to what it would mean to look back in great detail, more than has already been done. So I am not sure whether it will be exactly the same as Mr Rinnooy Kan imagines, but I shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u221	One question, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u222	Yes, Mr President, also because the request was partly on behalf of my group. It was just the former director of the Central Planning Bureau who found it important enough to look back ten years after the crisis. He wrote a whole book about it! Then there's no other way than for our finance minister to outdo him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u223	Well, writing a whole book... I would like to make a co-production of that with Mr Postema and Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u224	You said you had a whole book in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u225	Yeah, sure, but I'm almost done with that. And if Mr Postema had the impression that I failed him by not mentioning him as the author of this question, I would immediately make up for that omission. Then I will address him in particular in the answer. Mr President, the Secretary of State is eager. I'm at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u226	Thank you. I understand the Secretary of State wants two minutes, max three, a small suspension. We'll continue at 8:55. Then it's like three minutes. The sitting is suspended for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u227	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u228	Thank you, Mr President. It is also a great pleasure for me, like last year, to be able to stand here and debate various issues with you. Soon we will talk a little bit longer about the specific elements of the Tax Plan, but now we are going to talk about some of the priorities in the financial and economic field that are taking place in my policy area. I thought I could do it on five topics. Many of the cubes are quite short. Then you'll know a little bit about what's in store for you. The blocks are: the locational environment, the approach to tax avoidance, lower labour costs and a shift from direct to indirect taxes, greening and, finally, the theme of feasibility, simplicity and the Tax Administration. These five happen to be exactly the policy priorities we have previously shared. But before I do all this and try to answer the questions you have asked, I would also like to congratulate Mr Wever on his captivating maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u229	Mr Van Strien is already in the starting position. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u230	I had explicitly asked about the impact of the VAT increase on the low rate in the border region and its consequences. Are you going to take that question with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u231	Sure. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u233	I'll try to get as far as I can as soon as I can. Then we can see if all the questions we've listed have been answered. Let me start with the locational climate. The cabinet wants the Netherlands to be and remains very attractive to entrepreneurs. Well, that's for sure. It should not only be for companies that want to come to the Netherlands; it was also said today that it is important for companies that are already active here. And it is not just about large companies, but also small ones. Some of you rightly pointed out, including Mr Wever and Mr Van Apeldoorn, that we are not just talking about taxation. When we talk about a good locational environment, we are also talking about a well-educated workforce, a good infrastructure, an efficient labour market, predictable regulation and a policy that brings with it a certain predictability. These are recognized points. This is not new; we have known this for years. That is why the cabinet is not only preparing a tax package of measures for the establishment environment, but also has a number of other measures in place. This year, the Minister of EZK, who is responsible for the overall policy of establishment, will send a letter on the acquisition policy and the location climate to your two Chambers to expand on it. Today, I want to focus on its fiscal components. This concerns in particular the measures leading to a reduction in corporate tax rates, but also the corresponding broadening of the corporate tax base. The latter is often forgotten. Let me start with corporate tax. There were some questions about that. Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Binnema and Mr Ten Hoeve asked why the cabinet chose to reduce the corporate tax rate. In the first instance, we may have done so already in the coalition agreement, but later we did so in the so-called review, when we decided not to allow dividend tax abolition to continue and to create an alternative package for this. Even then, a package was chosen that affected the improvement of the Dutch locational climate. We made that choice very consciously. First of all, it is good to say that the tariff reductions are not entirely in themselves. We are, of course, pleased that we can ultimately bring prices to 15% for SMEs and 20.5% for other entrepreneurs. But it also includes something else, and that is the broadening of the basis. Ultimately, the discussion is about why you choose lower rates and a broader basis. I do, because I think it's optimal to do it this way. It's better than what we had in the past. We may have had a higher tariff structure, but we had a lot of exceptions for different companies and especially for specific companies. The core of the policy pursued by this cabinet is precisely to ensure a clear, simple structure in the Vpb, without many exceptions, but with low rates. We really think that this is the most important step to make the Netherlands attractive in the future as a country to settle in, but also as a country to undertake. The same was the result of the choice we made when the dividend tax was not abolished. That measure was aimed at making the Netherlands an attractive location. When we finally decided that this was not the best way forward, we decided to take a series of twelve measures, all of which were also good for the locational climate. Some measures may have been targeted at large businesses, but there were also very specific measures that could benefit SMEs. I am thinking, for example, of the Wbso and of the lower labour costs. But the reduction of the Vpb rates itself is also a pleasant side effect for a lot of entrepreneurs. So yes, there is indeed quite a bit of tariff reduction. You mentioned 3.3 billion. The amount is now even greater: we spend almost 4 billion on tariff reductions. But this includes a reduction in the rate of deduction from the ATAD Bill of more than 2 billion in structural terms and a reduction in the balance sheet of 1 billion in companies. And also, for example, the thincap rules for banks and insurers, with 200 million in burdens on business, are on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u234	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u235	For the record, I mentioned the amount of 3.3 billion earlier because I had taken over from Mr Postema. That was wrong. According to our calculations, the Vpb reduction, as it currently stands, will cost 3 billion per year net per 2021. That is after deduction of the broadening of the basis. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that. It talks about a balance between the broadening of the base on the one hand and the tariff reduction on the other. But in the end, that balance becomes unbalanced. After all, the net reduction in Vpb does indeed lead to a reduction in the burden on business, even if you include the broadening of the base.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u236	I am trying very hard to think about the misunderstanding that exists with Mr Van Apeldoorn. Those numbers really don't add up. The tax measures we take around tariff reduction amount to about 4 billion, and about 3.6 billion are opposed to basic measures. On balance, that is less than half a billion. And with the overall package, the business community under this cabinet under the line is far less progressing than the citizen, as the minister also said. So I really think there's got to be a misunderstanding here. If there are any more questions, I will answer them with love. I have all the figures for the legislative proposals here, but I would ask Mr Van Apeldoorn to look again at his own calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u237	Mr. Postema, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u238	Earlier in the debate, reference was made to the financial paragraph of the coalition agreement. Perhaps the Secretary of State could go there again when it comes to the business package, to which the Prime Minister also refers all too often.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u239	Once again, it is out of date, because we have taken other measures since the review of the coalition agreement. For example, we have given the dividend tax, which has risen to 9 billion, to an additional reduction in the Vpb rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u240	I made the point because I wanted to avoid, at least for our part, any confusion about the amounts. I just got the amounts out of the coalition agreement. That a different interpretation was then given to the envelope business, that's just our point. You would not have had to spend this money, you could have spent it on the citizen, and you could have spent it on covering all kinds of things in health care and education, which we have already talked about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u241	That reminds me of the discussion I had on the other side not long ago, as we always say so beautifully. The question was whether this should be allowed. If at that time we had chosen not to implement the dividend tax abolition, can we use the amount released for all kinds of wonderful expenses? Quite apart from the fact that we have budgetary rules that would not allow that to happen, we have deliberately chosen to maintain the balance in the government agreement between burden-sharing for citizens and businesses and, specifically, in relation to the locational climate. The money released by not abolishing the dividend tax is spent on a package with similar effects, namely improving the locational environment. Although we did this through other measures, more focused on domestic activities, unlike the abolition of dividend taxation, the overall distribution between citizens and businesses has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u242	Mr. Ten Hoeve, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u243	I still don't quite understand the Secretary of State's calculations. I understand from the documents we have received that the Business Act provides structural 3 billion in favour of business. In fact, I do not see any measures in the overall state that would be opposed to them. Then where do I find it? By the way, is there not also that part of the basic measures that is intended to prevent tax avoidance? Yes, that may cost business money, but can you put that against the more favourable tax system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u244	I am in a hurry to look for this misunderstanding when it comes to the overall broadening of the basis. But in the bill ATAD that goes with it, part of the basic broadening is regulated. I will add one more time: I come to 4.2 billion in reduction of VPB rates and 3.6 billion for broadening the base, and that is 0.6 billion on balance. I'm very curious to know where this misunderstanding, which leads to misdirection with numbers, comes from. But I'll be happy to explain that in second term, if I have some more precise numbers on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u245	Mr Ten Hoeve, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u246	In concrete terms, these basic measures under ATAD legislation are intended to prevent abuse or avoidance of tax. Can you just say that we give a lot of credit to business to improve the locational environment, and we take as compensation the fact that we are combating tax avoidance? Those are two completely different angles, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u247	It's not like everything we've been dealing with in ATAD used to be real tax evasion. Those were structures that may have come under the laws and regulations, but which we believe we need to adapt now. But if you look at what is being coughed up and received on balance by the business community, then you see that on the one hand they get a cost relief of more than 4 billion due to the lower rates, but on the other hand there is a burden increase for the large business, even more so than for small businesses. That remains the case in your reasoning as well. Mr. Chairman. I shall continue with questions from Mr Van Apeldoorn on the same subject. He sketched the picture that tax competition, which is becoming stronger and stronger, could well erode the tax revenues of governments. That's a theorem that's often used. However, if you go back 15 to 20 years in time and look at the percentage of corporation tax compared to total tax revenues, even compared to GDP, because the GDP and GDP are generally breathing together, you actually see a fairly constant line. You can't see that the percentage has been halved in the last 20 years. This is because, despite the lowering of tariffs, there has been a much greater broadening of the basis. This applies not only to the Netherlands, but also to some other countries. We've been asked what's going on in countries around us. There are countries that don't. They still have a high rate and seek the attractiveness of their locational environment in introducing basic narrowing measures. That is a conscious choice, which this cabinet does not take. Then there was a question from Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Binnema about the race to the bottom. They asked about the average profit tax rate in Europe if we were not the ones who would start with it. In fact, the same kind of answer can be given. If you look at where we end up with nominal rates, we are slightly below the European average. That's about 21 and we're at 20.5. But you can't compare that story with that one-two-three, because it's about nominal rates. For example, if you look at the attractiveness of the location climate, you can also look at effective rates. People will be able to experience a high rate in a particular country, but due to many basic narrowing measures they will pay less on balance. We are now slightly above the European average, with a broad base. So I really don't think it's right to blame us for running a race to the bottom, let alone leading this race. A few examples: Finland is at 20%, Sweden at 20%, the UK, a major competitor, 17% and Ireland at 12.5%. So there are countries around us, with which we can compare ourselves perfectly, which have rates close to the Dutch rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u248	One question, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u249	Thank you for allowing at least one question on this important subject. If you look at it historically, it is true that there has been a shift in taxes on capital on the one hand and taxes on labour on the other. Apart from the logic of that race to the bottom, do I understand now that the Secretary of State is taking part in the reasoning of the CDA group in this House that it is important for the Netherlands that we always stay ahead of competition, despite the fact that the competition might eventually be able to put up the same reasoning? Then I ask my question again, which has not been answered: where does this end? This is separate from the story of basic broadening and so on. The logic of this is that, if other countries follow our example, then we will be less competitive and we will have to take a further step. So where does that end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u250	I understand that reasoning. I'm just trying to point out that if you look back 20 years now, at least that didn't happen. If you look at the total income from corporation tax and you relate it to our total tax revenue or our GDP, you can see that this trend is not that strong at all. It remains around 10% when it comes to total tax revenue. That's actually pretty constant over the years. So it's not. Do I recognise that it is important for the Netherlands to always be alert to what is happening in the countries around us? Yes. At the same time, of course, we do not always have foreign affairs on a string. Other countries will be able to make their own choices in the way they want to make the location climate attractive, again, not only to attract new businesses but also to ensure that entrepreneurship is attractive in their own country. This is also typical of what we, the Netherlands, want, not only for large companies, but also for small businesses. However, I continue to state that I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn quite quickly that it is ultimately important for everyone to pay their fair share in society, including business. That is also necessary, because we have all kinds of structural public expenditure and provision that we would like to finance. This is why industry has a share of it to bring about. I can see that. At the same time, that is, of course, the other side of the medal, if you do not pay attention at all to your relative locational climate and companies would choose to settle outside the Netherlands, we also miss the tax revenues of these companies. So, on balance, it's a symbiosis: as a country if you want to be attractive, you really shouldn't just look at taxation. There are six, seven other categories of people I have just named who are at least as important. However, taxation is one of the elements for which I have at least responsibility and which I think we are choosing an attractive and manageable level. Mr. Chairman. Then there were questions from Mr Ten Hoeve which follow on from this. Suppose you acknowledge that you would have such a race. I say again that it looks a little different from what was proposed. Mr Ten Hoeve asked whether we could not better harmonise the Vpb rates. That's an ancient question. You have two questions in Europe. The first is about harmonizing the basis. That also makes it easy for companies. If there's the same basis everywhere, you only have to make one kind of report. But the follow-up step is always immediate: do you want to set a kind of minimum rate? It will not surprise you that in Europe, just as in Parliament and in politics, opinions on this matter are very divided. On the one hand, I just mentioned the benefits. You'd make it clear in terms of administrative burden, but on the other hand, it's not insignificant that as a country you can choose your own level of taxation, belonging to the level of service and the level of structure you want to offer. A country that offers a lot of facilities for businesses may also be a little more expensive. It also turns out that companies generally do not mind paying a little more tax burden if they also get a little more in return. In short, when it comes to the question of whether I am prepared to go further in the field of the harmonisation of corporate tax rates in Europe, I say that I do not want to spend all my energy on that. Moreover, I would like to focus all my energies on the European approach to tax avoidance. I refer to the directives ATAD 1 and ATAD 2. If you want to focus on tackling excesses of tax avoidance, a harmonised rate could be something. But I think it's much better to really focus on the specific structures that exist. This can be done, for example, by further improving tax information, such as the Mandatory Disclosure Directive, which we have just started with, in order to reduce tax avoidance in Europe, but also beyond. That with regard to the Vpb tariff. There were also some questions about other rates, such as Mr Van Kesteren's question about the profit reserves in box 2 tax. He said that many things are going well, but he noticed at the same time that the rate for dgas in the coalition agreement is going up. However, I would like to put an image right up against that. If you look at all the measures taken by the cabinet, including the Vpb reduction and the lower income tax, you can see in our records that the dgas are always making a lot of progress. This actually applies to dgas in all sizes: both those with low turnover and those with higher turnover. I would also like to say that, as a result of the review package and the decision-making process in August, the proposed increase in the box 2 tariff has now been halved. I think that's good news for the dga's, too. Mr Van Kesteren's specific question was the following. He said: okay, let's say that all this would be nice, then there is, in good Dutch, still an issue, namely around compartmentalizing the profit reserves. You have old and new profit reserves. Those old profit reserves are built up with the idea that there would be a certain rate, but that rate will be different soon. Shouldn't you be keeping track of those old and new profits and pulling them apart? You are already feeling a little bit coming, even if only because Mr Van Kesteren himself asked a question about the implementation policy that it is almost impossible for the Tax Administration to get a good picture of that. If we could do that, then there would be considerable budgetary costs. At the moment you could think of such a compartmental system, you can expect people to pay out old reserves first. We believe that such a system will lead to a budgetary loss of more than 200 million a year, irrespective of the problem of feasibility. In short, the whole measure will not produce anything in this cabinet period. In addition, that is the last thing I can say about it, it is not so that the dga does not have an action perspective. This measure will only apply after 2019, i.e. in 2020. The dga that really hoped to be able to pay its profits at a lower rate still has the possibility to do so throughout 2019. So he also has an action perspective to avoid that. Moreover, if he still wants to keep it in the e.g. for a while, a lower Vpb rate will help him to keep the burden on him. In short, it is true that no distinction is made between old and new profit reserves, but there is scope for action. There are advantages for these entrepreneurs, both in the ib and in the Vpb. On balance, the measure was cut by half from the coalition agreement. Then I come to the block around tax avoidance and evasion. We were just talking about it. This is an important subject for me. I have also paid particular attention to it in my first few months, because I really think that if we want to keep our locational climate as it is, we should also be prepared to take the edge off sometimes. We need to protect the core of our locational climate. I am thinking here of the ruling practice, but also of the participation exemption. We have to protect them. They are also important for the future. I have already laid down a large number of measures in legislative proposals. They will also reach your Chamber; think of, for example, ATAD 1. But ATAD 1 is not yet the end, because next year there will be a number of legislative proposals. A few are the result of the ATAD 2 bill. I'll throw in some technique, Mr. Chairman. We are going to address hybrid mismatch situations in the CV/e.g. structures. I believe that everyone is already looking forward to the discussion that we are going to have with each other for a long time. In addition, there will be the multilateral instrument. This is not insignificant either, because it allows us, for example, to add anti-abuse provisions that are now needed for tax avoidance at the push of a button to all our tax treaties. Basically, you have a list on which you tick that. If all your partners in the treaty envelope have also ticked that same box, you no longer need to regulate it in a bilateral tax treaty because it has direct effect. We hope and assume that many other countries will tick a lot of boxes, just like the Netherlands. We tick all the boxes. In this way, we can start exchanging all these anti-abuse provisions at the same time. This is very important because it makes the Dutch treaty network less susceptible to abuse. In the past, it did happen that it was abused. So it becomes easier to defend that. Finally, an important element is the national withholding tax on interest and royalty flows. That is not yet laid down in legislation, but we are going to do so next year, with the hope that this will actually be implemented in 2021. This is really something new for the Netherlands. We want to introduce a kind of standard withholding tax for certain flows, especially from mailboxes to anyone on a list of non-cooperative countries. This is going to be an EU list. In addition, we also add a number of countries, all of which we believe have too low rates. They will soon be countries with a rate of less than 9%. In that case, as soon as we see it, we will be holding a withholding tax. SEO tested it last. I think I sent that to your room at the beginning of November. Thanks to this withholding tax we directly hit a stream of 22 billion that goes through the Netherlands to a tax haven at once. That's not nothing. It is also my firm expectation that if we are successful in this legislative process, the 22 billion will hopefully dry up faster than slower over time. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the block of lower labour costs, but in that I will also tell you about, among other things, VAT and the shift from direct to indirect. First of all, it is clear that what we meant by this is that the Dutch must feel the positive effects of economic growth in their wallets. In that context, we have said before that we are sitting here on some kind of sweet spot. I think that's what we all really want. That is why it is so important that we reduce the burden on labour, not only for the first, but also so that people who are still at work feel that extra. The most important element in our plans is the introduction of a social flat tax or the two-disk system, whatever name you want to give it. This has released a total of 5.6 billion in relief for citizens. This relief will eventually fall to the public in 2021. At least, it's growing to that amount. That's a huge amount of money. In addition, the overall tax rebate is increasing by a total of EUR 3.3 billion. I would just like to mention some of them, because it does put it in perspective and is financed with a broader base, namely a higher VAT. That's what 3 billion is all about. We had 5.6 billion by the two-disk system anyway, 3.3 billion by the general tax rebate. However, there is something to the contrary: higher VAT and higher environmental taxes and energy taxes. Together they amount to EUR 4 billion. The effect is that you give people a thicker wallet on balance. We try to explain that more often. And yes, some of that thicker wallet will also have to be used for buying goods that are subject to the low VAT rate and for paying a higher energy bill. The hope is, of course, that people are a little more energy-efficient. And when you talk about the slide from direct to indirect, the hope is also that it might be better to tax consumption, something that consumes something, than to levy direct taxes on, for example, entrepreneurship or the use of human resources. So we really think that the slide from directly to indirectly on balance is a good idea. For years now, OECD and IMF have insisted that the Netherlands should be able to do more, and that is what this cabinet is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u251	One question, Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u252	I have talked about the impact of the VAT increase on families, but that was not my question. My question was about the impact of the VAT increase on small businesses in the border region. You have booked 2.4 billion for the increase in VAT. My question was: did you take into account the reduced turnover of small businesses in the border region? That's one. And two: how much is that? How much is that? And how many small middlemen are going to die again because of this? If, as far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State does not have this information ready, it may be written, but I would have liked to have answered those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u253	Actually, I wanted to answer all the questions. This question was two questions behind the question I was going to answer, but I am now bringing it up specifically for Mr Van Strien. I will answer his question if those border effects, if any, are discounted in the VAT effects, now. The answer to his question is actually yes and no. We calculated it. We have made that assessment on the basis of a number of investigations. The most important of these was, I think, the research carried out by ITEM, the Institute for Transnational and Euregional Crossborder Cooperation and Mobility, which specialises in calculating border effects of, for example, tax measures, but also other measures. The conclusion of this research office is actually that this increase is likely to have a very limited impact on consumers' cross-border spending behaviour. I can recommend that investigation. They give a whole series of reasonings. For example, the question is to what extent all VAT increases will also be reflected in the price. It is also questionable whether raising the low rate by 3% has a significant impact on the differences that already exist between prices of various products in the Netherlands and the countries around us. It also takes into account that the differences in the price of the same product in different shops in the border regions are much greater than that 3% VAT. For the same package of butter you can see in different shops a price difference that is much higher. In short, they don't say that they're sure nothing's going to happen, but they clearly say that they expect a very limited impact of this VAT increase. So the answer is yes and no. We have, moreover, taken into account the border effects in the calculation of the increase in the low VAT rate, which is EUR 3 billion, but they will not be large. You can also say that we didn't take it into account, because we expect them not to be that big. The same is true of the follow-up questions. What does that mean for the entrepreneurs in the border region or those families? For the families, what I just told you is true. They obviously also bring a thicker wallet. And if that entrepreneur chooses to pass on some of the VAT increase in his prices, that entrepreneur will not suffer, but the citizen will. It's always one of both. I often hear in discussions 'it is both very bad for the entrepreneur and very bad for the consumer', but it has to come down somewhere. So you can divide that 3% by the two of us, or the entrepreneur takes it into his profit margin or the consumer pays it. But in any case, we expect that these border effects will not be very great on the basis of research. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ten Hoeve also had a question about the VAT rate. I'm gonna grab that right now. He asked whether the rise in the low rate is actually a kind of first push towards the possibility of a real harmonisation of the VAT rate. In itself, that direction is quite special. Indeed, many international agencies and the IMF, the OECD and the EU say that one VAT rate would make it very easy and remove a lot of distortions. You now have all kinds of options to play with various categories of VAT. We have problems with whether or not VAT is due around the carousel frauds. So it could work something out. At the same time, it is a huge shift in taxation. In raising the low VAT rate from 6% to 9%, we have now taken a number of other measures to ensure that purchasing power, including at the bottom, came out acceptable to us in total. In general terms, I say that when we talk about income support and purchasing power, VAT is actually a very bad means, because it turns out that it was also mentioned today that these differences are quite small, if you look at the relative level of expenditure on all debt holders' incomes, even at such a low VAT rate. This also has to do with the composition of the products at the low rate. These are not just the essential necessities, but also, for example, culture, going out to dinner and that sort of thing. This is more widely used in the higher categories. Maybe it's a little too far to explain it all now. In short, I believe that the government recognises the benefits of a uniform VAT rate, but does not yet choose to do so. Then Mr Schalk had a question about the social flat tax. He actually said: is it really a social flat tax? Mr Schalk is quite right. No, it's not a real, clean flat tax. Then it would be one fare. But compared to where we came from, they are at least less rates. The term "social flat tax" is actually meant as follows. If you put everything at one rate, it is logical that the people under the high rates experience a purchasing power advantage, while people under the low rates experience a disadvantage, if you want to do it budget neutrally. So you need a lot to get back to a fair distribution and the principle of carrying weight, so that the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burden when you arrive at one rate. At least that didn't work out. I do not know whether that was very specific on the table during the formation period. But I think that in the current two-disk system, we have tried to go as far as possible to maintain a certain level of disposable income for everyone to benefit from. This was done, for example, by means of the general tax rebate, the labour rebate and a number of other measures which could balance things out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u254	One question, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u255	One question. Isn't that because we're dealing with all kinds of discounts and so on? As long as they keep walking, you'll never get a flat tax, even if you keep two more rates. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u256	No, I'm sure, but the system serves more purposes. I think we had this discussion on the one and the two-earners a little more extensive last year. I shall come back to another question that you raised. You could say about that principle of standing: does it have to matter whether someone makes $40,000 on his own or alone? Then we say: from the point of view of capacity, perhaps not, but there are other principles that we want to comply with. For example, we think it is very important that the least-deserving partners develop themselves in case a marriage breaks up, so that they can move on with their lives. We know that it is also important for us to activate people to, for example, start working on our own. That is another objective of the cabinet. We'd like to encourage that kind of behavior. That's why you always end up choosing a system that's a little more complicated than you might want in advance. However, the introduction of the dual-disk system has at least pushed us into the debate on whether it matters whether you earn the money in a household with one or two people. Mr Schalk will be pleased to hear that. Well, that's been taken away from this. We'll be able to talk about it for a long time to see if that's enough. I think that we think that it is enough and that Mr Schalk thinks that we could do a little more. Then Mr Schalk would have asked me, I think, as a result of last year's discussion, whether the marginal pressure table could be updated. I had to look him up again. It is a rather extensive table with a lot of numbers and incomes, but the marginal pressure is neatly in the last table. It was sent to your Chamber last year for the years 2016, 2018 and 2021. Those were the years we had available at that time. The question is: can we not update that information? But that's a bit of a problem. I will try to explain why that is the case. Many of the measures we take in the coalition agreement only affect the marginal pressure in 2021. Then, for example, you should also think about the surcharges. Think, for example, of the hard phasing-out limit in the rent surcharge. Many of these measures are still assessing towards 2021. Moreover, life also goes on and you will see that there are other developments that can still affect marginal pressure and surcharges. For example, the CPB does not, for this reason, make a new estimate for the purchasing power input "to put it like this' for the years after 2019. They say: there is still so much in motion at the moment; during such a coalition agreement you can freeze for a while, but then it goes according to reality. They are actually saying: we cannot yet get a picture of this. So just updating those numbers is a little less easy than it seems, because we need to know a lot for that, especially when it comes to looking to the future. But I get his question. We will see to what extent, for example, we can say something about it in your Chamber during the examination of the Tax Plan. You just want to know what's going on, how it's going to develop. But the hard figures for 2016, 2018 and 2021, we can't recreate on the basis of what we have now, because we don't have that CPB calculation for that. Then, Mr President, there was a question from Mr Ester about the government'szzp approach. That's not unimportant. It should not be surprising that it is also a very complicated issue. Previous Cabinets have also tried hard to make soup out of this, and have not yet fully succeeded in doing so. Nevertheless, we are moving forward with fresh courage. We have devised a coalition agreement measure for this. Mr Koolmees writes a progress note on this subject. I'm in on that. That letter of progress is sent to the Chamber for the budgetary treatment of SZW. In that letter we deal with the various sections, the three-part agreement we had envisaged in the coalition agreement. We'll show you how it's going. Then we will see that it is still quite complicated for some parts to give concrete hands and feet to them very quickly. We will indicate what we want in any case, but in part we also notice that the whole labour market is different from what we have ever intended in legislation. This applies not only to our legislation, but also to a number of European laws that we have to take into account. For this reason, the Minister for Social Affairs has set up a Committee on the Regulation of Work. It is made up of independent experts and Hans Borstlap is going to lead it. This committee will examine the change in the labour market and advise on the possible adjustments and regulations in the fields of labour law, social security and taxation. As far as we are concerned, this is going to be a very important work of this committee, because we really have the idea that there is a considerable gap between the way labour law is organized and the way our labour market is currently working. We really need to take steps. Taxation alone will not be able to do so; labour law must go hand in hand with these developments. So we'll be back soon with a letter to your room. Then the subject of further tax compensation. Not many questions have been asked about this, but I would like to say a few things about that. As a cabinet, we consider it very important that the polluter should pay. We have also put this pontifically in the coalition agreement a few times. We would prefer to tax something we do not want, namely pollution, rather than something we do want, for example, entrepreneurship or the choice of work. By linking taxes to pollution, consumers and businesses are encouraged to take greater account of the social costs of pollution in their choices. The Tax Plan already has a number of such choices in it. We are still talking about the Tax Plan, but we are thinking, for example, of increasing the waste tax, also in view of the circular economy, but also of adapting the energy tax, so that we will take more account of the COdie in its generation. So that means that your gas is going to tax relatively heavier and electricity a little less. In addition, and these are perhaps even more obvious measures, the cabinet will shortly come forward with two legislative proposals. That's a bill on the CO-minimum price. With this you are actually trying to lay some sort of basis for the development of the CO price in the market. We say that there must always be some sort of minimum that we have to pay for emissions, for electricity generation. There will also be a bill on a flight tax. It is intended that we will come to decisions and legislation in this area fairly quickly. There are still a number of choices to be made, but I think we have already come a long way on our own. Here too, we will remain close to the governmental agreement. Moreover, as the Minister has pointed out, there is, of course, also a process around the climate agreement, in which taxation plays a role on all tables. It has also been made clear at all these tables that not only fiscal legislation must remain comprehensible and simple, but also its implementation must be effective. So an execution test has also been included in all ideas. I think it was Mr Binnema who asked a question about the price of a product from organic farming. He wanted a response in the light of the advice of the Health Council. We looked very quickly to see if we could find the present opinion of the Health Council on this issue. We didn't do this one-two-three. I would like to say that I am certainly at a fair price for organic products. That's important. But if, for example, the follow-up question were to be whether we could charge a different VAT rate for organic products than for other products, I would have to disappoint Mr Binnema a little. We have often had these discussions about the different tariff groups. We also talked about a meat tax. The implementation problem is often very complicated. If we try to steer on specific products, then it is not only the demarcation but also, above all, the control of it that is quite quickly wrong. I have wonderful examples of this, even in an earlier phase. We once came up with 150 measures to help the climate, with a lot of specific arrangements. The moment you want to transpose that into legislation and implement it, you see how difficult that is actually. But maybe that wasn't his question at all and I'm now hearing what question he had asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u257	Mr. Binnema, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u258	The question did go in that direction. The reason for referring to the opinion of the Health Council was that, as with the effects of a CO levy, it also mentioned fine dust: agriculture and road traffic are the two main causes of this. You yourself rightly said that the polluter pays. When we talk about pollution, it is about agriculture, it is about road traffic or other forms of traffic. What measures can we expect from the cabinet in this respect, including in the context of fiscal greening?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u259	When we talk about emissions, there's the flight tax. That is also clearly stated. The preferred route is to do this first in Europe. This is typically a tax that works best if you do it all together. But we do not want to wait until Europe may finally like it. We have said that we want to see results in 2021. We do this in the first instance by looking at a tax based on emissions or noise. But if that's too complicated, then we could look at a plane ticket tax. But the first is, I think, a little bit more in line with the objectives of realising how much emissions there are. For the rest, there is a Mobility Table which is now very busy. I refer to the Dutch fleet and how we will deal with it in the future. You know our ambition: by 2030, no car can be sold that is not electric. That's where we really want to go. We are now awaiting further proposals from that Mobility Table. I have a high expectation pattern of that. Mr. Chairman. There are a few other questions that I couldn't put in a block. Some of those questions are about the housing market. Mr Ester asked if the cabinet was prepared to implement incentives to make housing rental less attractive...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By taxing them differently, you could mean something around the rents. We all recognize, I think, that more and more people are having trouble finding a good affordable home, especially in the big city. There's always been a lot of them, but they're not getting any less. We're all aware of that. In my opinion, my colleague from the Interior and Kingdom Relations in the House of Representatives has said that we need to see what we can think of this 'buy to let' phenomenon. In short, I actually agree with Mr Ester that there can be good reasons for looking at how the rental and buying markets relate to each other. Moreover, I have already indicated in the House of Representatives that I will conduct an investigation in the coming period to look at rental income, for example. Then you can also think of platforms such as Airbnb and others, to see if we can come up with some kind of extra load for that. This sounds a little too precise, by the way, which I already think there should be a tax on this, but we understand the problem and want to take a good look at it. We want to see if that shouldn't be arranged differently. Also in the broad sense, we are really going to look at how rent income is taxed. But this also takes a little more time than "a quick look." I also intended to make this one of the building blocks of a system review which I would like to prepare for a subsequent cabinet, should I not be able to do so myself. Then a more specific comment on the idea of higher transfer tax. I understand the idea behind it, but at the same time we also have to be honest about the fact that such a transfer tax will become very complex. We've been trying to figure out if you could determine who owns a third house. You might have a problem with that. How easy would it be to put all third houses or even a larger number of houses in the name of an e.g.? I commend the creativity, but I think that this is very complex and probably not very manageable either. Moreover, there may be a risk that a higher transfer tax for landlords will return to the rental costs that the tenant has to pay. So for that reason, too, I think that this might not be the best solution. Anyway, we are going to look at this problem together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the coming period. Then there were questions from Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Ten Hoeve about the housing corporations and the Earnings stripping measure contained in the ATAD bill. Mr Van Strien's question was whether we could not exempt housing companies from this measure. This would be important, also according to Mr Van Apeldoorn, as housing companies will be an important partner in the future in making the existing and new housing stock more sustainable. That is why we must be able to help them. Mr Ten Hoeve also said that it is important to give the corporations financial space on this point, because the investment capacity of the housing corporations must be sufficient to meet this important challenge that we are facing with them in the near future. Let me start with the technique. Could you include an exception for housing corporations in the Earnings Stripping measure? We have looked at this very extensively. Our conclusion is that this is legally very risky. We have previously had such processes when it comes to the Vpb obligation and the SGEI activity. At that time we also considered whether we could make a specific exception for housing corporations. Our contacts with the Commission show that it still believes that housing companies, if you look at the total of their activities, are competing with other providers of such products, so that they are therefore fully Vpb liable and also fully covered by the Earnings Stripping measure ATAD 2. At that time we looked at whether there could be an exception for public infrastructure projects, so that we could try to ride them underneath. The committee's answer was that this was not possible. The same question concerning the SGEI activity was also answered negatively. In short, we have looked at it, but we really think that the risk, if we do so, of a ban is very high and that it is therefore undesirable to go that way as a legislator. The foregoing does not mean that there was no attention at all to this point. We are also aware that the housing corporations are an ally in our strategy for further sustainability. For this reason, we have decided to propose an additional reduction of the landlord's tax of 100 million in addition to the already existing inclusion of sustainability and landlord's tax in the government agreement. Moreover, the Vpb reduction for housing corporations also leads to positive results. If you then look at the whole burden relief and increase for the sector during this cabinet period, then we see that all these measures together lead to a reduction in the burden for housing corporations. Of course, you can always ask yourself whether you should not have given further relief to the burden in order to increase investment capacity even further. We have not made that choice. In any case, there is no increase in the burden on housing corporations during this cabinet period which could be at the expense of our own housing market ambitions. That would be a shame. The Minister of BZK has now undertaken to report on the investment area of the housing corporations in the context of the State of Housing in the coming spring on the basis of the new projections. The effects of the various measures I have just described and the current developments for housing corporations are also highlighted. Then I come to a completely different but not unimportant question from Mr Rinnooy Kan. He asked the Minister and through the Minister also me whether the Netherlands is not in favour of a new own resource, for example a CO levy or a digital service tax. I think we should cut this issue in half. Of course, a CO charge, a digital service tax, but also a flight tax are typical taxes that, if we do them with many countries at the same time, are effective. Since it is often difficult to get the whole world behind a plan, one could say that there is a logic in bringing these taxes together with the European partners. I agree with Mr Rinnooy Kan on this point. But then I come to the second part of the question: could I assume that Mr Rinnooy could not be a wonderful new European tax, which could serve as a new basis for the EU's contribution? When you talk about own resources, that's what you're talking about. At this point I am a little more reluctant, to say it more cautiously. Of course, we have a number of starting points when it comes to new own resources. They must be simple, but they must also be transparent and fair, for example. Moreover, national powers in the field of taxation must remain guaranteed. These are familiar terms from the cabinet side. In addition, we must ensure that the increase in burden on citizens and businesses does not become too high. All in all, I fully understand the idea of emphasising the European dimension, but at the same time we are somewhat hesitant about a new means of our own. Then I come to the last, but not the most insignificant point of my speech: the good practicability of our tax system. Last year we had a discussion on this. This was mentioned by Mr Van Kesteren, among others. Mr Nagel also had a number of questions about the Tax Administration as the enforcer of the laws and regulations. It is quite clear that the problems currently facing the service did not arise overnight. They were created by a multitude of factors. I wrote about this last year in a more extensive letter, which led to our project Managed Renewal. The service has to do with late maintenance, with too complex legislation and with the fact that a departure scheme has left many people at a time when ICT does not deliver what we want. In Managing Renewal we have said that we are going to concentrate on a number of key tasks of the Tax Administration. We want to do them right now. Among other things, there is the proper handling of objections and the collection. We have raised some of these points because we believe that we really need to be top of the bill with those points. In that respect, perhaps I can refer the Chamber to the annual plan. I think I have recently sent this to the First Chamber, in which the Tax Administration is trying to outline for the first time, apart from all the endless numbers and data available to us, which are actually the problems. According to Control Renewal, they are on three points. The first concerns staff. We still need too many people. We have a lot of vacancies; we have to fill them out hard. We must continue to do so, using all the channels we have to reach people. The second point is the ICT problem. The IRS really has another ICT problem. There are about 900 applications at the service. I once called it a Belgian town, but then I was immediately flogged back. It wasn't nice to say that, but those cities weren't built under architecture either. They work together, but not in an ideal way. We really need to do something about that. Last year, for the first time, we had a kind of integrated picture of all the different ICT applications. We are now making the next step: you know what you have, you also know where you want to go, so the question is how we are going to take those steps. I will often be told that we will not have resolved this overnight. The well-known winged words "complex, persistent and bulky" have been put forward again today. This is really a long-term process. I do not have the illusion that I will solve this quickly and completely, but I do have the illusion to make meters when it comes to analysing what is wrong and providing solutions and directions for the future. Thirdly, there is the service's steering information. To date, the service had a limited number of metres in the way it had organised the process. Those meters are needed if you want to steer, so we are working very hard to put some more meters on processes, so that when we see that it goes wrong, we can adjust quickly. At the same time, I also have the compass on tax legislation in focus. We are going to go on with this and it will take a lot of my time in the years to come, but this is an important matter, so I am happy to spend that time on it. If I can choose between perfect legislation with difficult feasibility implications and a 95% session that is feasible, I will suggest more often to choose the last option. It is extremely important, however clever our practitioners and legislators may be, to make it easier not only for the citizen but also for the service to implement the different laws. I really think that in the past a bit too easy has been looked at the execution tests, which were there, but not yet integral. We now have really broader execution tests, implementation tests and new style, where we're showing a lot of elements of what new legislation means for the Tax Administration. In this context, we are also looking, for example, at accumulations of implementation policies. If you have a measure that can be implemented in itself, but you do 10 at the same time in a year, you may still have a problem. I know my colleagues in the cabinet very well by now, but I will say no more often when someone tries to arrange an exception for a particular group or has a specific demarcation and say yes to those plans which lead to less complexity of implementation. Mr Nagel had another question about an incident for which he asked my attention. Recently, a morning newspaper said that 15 people from the Tax Administration had been caught doing fraudulent activities. I have now responded to it in the press, but I would also like to do it again here. In principle, I think that every Dutchman has to pay his taxes, and every company has to pay their taxes, but that certainly applies to people who work at the Tax Office. They have an exemplary function. For them there is actually no room for manoeuvre. The answer to the question of whether they are being dealt with as harshly as other tax fraudsters is: harder. Suppose you're a Dutchman, you have a company and you make mistakes in your report, then you get a post-tax charge and then you have to pay back money. That's it, but for Tax Service people, the moment we show up, we're not talking about making a mistake that they deliberately did wrong, knowingly, that this cost them their jobs. They're gonna go out, too. That's 15 of them. There are fifteen too many, I say immediately, because we want to keep that number at zero. That number of fifteen is not last month. It is a number, added in the last two years. If we compare the amount of frauds over the years and look at the total for the government, then that number is certainly not rising. We can't quite picture it for the Tax Administration for all these years, but we feel that the number is quite constant. If it does anything, the number is increasing rather than increasing. Apart from the fact that 15 redundancies are too many, I would say that at least 99.9% of the staff at the service have filled out their tax bill properly. I hope that this behaviour will continue. That brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u260	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I call Mr Van Strien, who has five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u261	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering my questions. With regard to pensions and the absence of indexation, I have signed a motion that Mr Van Apeldoorn will table, so I shall not go into that further. Unfortunately, I have to say that in many other areas too, I am not talking about answering questions which remain in full force. I am thinking of the billions wasted in the areas of immigration, climate hysteria, development aid and Europe, rather than improving the purchasing power of the Dutch, lowering rents, money for the elderly and health care, and own contributions. That's unfortunate, but not entirely unexpected. However, I believe that we are not going to correct this last hour which we have just discussed fairly extensively, but unfortunately not with the desired result. So I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u262	Thank you. I call Mr Wever. He's got 11 minutes. I hope he doesn't take advantage of that, I'm telling you quite honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u263	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this challenge. I'm not gonna bore my colleagues that long. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for their clear answer and the energy they have put into it. I am very pleased with the Minister's answers on maintaining the balance between investment, reduction of costs and a sound financial policy. I did ask a few more questions about the investments. The CPB mentions digitisation, climate and environment as key points. I have asked whether these are also the key points that the Minister brings back and whether he can show us how we can see that in the amounts. I also asked whether the Minister would also use reduction of regulatory pressure, multidisciplinaryness and co-financing as resources in these investments. I'm curious about that. I also welcome the answers on why we are investing so much in the locational environment and why it is so important that we work on the Vpb. In the end, it's about putting our businesses in a good place, keeping our locational environment attractive and, above all, creating jobs. Investment space and work. In the end, these are crucial values in our lives. It is important that we continue to appreciate the companies here in the Chamber. I find it unbelievable that I occasionally hear notes about the douche bags we give to big entrepreneurs when they visit the cabinet members. What does that mean for the PO Council, Greenpeace and the ggz that come to the ministers? Do they all get douche bags when we do something in the Millions Note? I don't think so. I understood the Minister's answer on climate change. I understand that we have to wait, but to compare the widely appreciated Minister Wiebes with a brooding chicken is a little too much for me. I would like to replace that in the Acts with a contemplative panda. I wonder when the answers will come. Pictures about purchasing power always give you nice discussions, because one difference is even greater than the other. We always have an exception. I'm starting to get a little pimples when we start comparing a earner who makes a lot of money with two earners where two people make little money. This way you can always draw a comparison that makes it all very complicated. I don't need that much. Nor does the VVD Group need to provide the cabinet with a comprehensive epistle on lessons from the crisis. We have just heard from colleagues that a beautiful book has been published about it. I'd say cabinet, give us the ISBN number. Then we will read what the lessons of the crisis are. However, there has been a question I would like answered. That's the question about care. We asked that question last year, and a commitment was made on that. Can the Minister indicate how far he is with the idea of an ex ante link of healthcare expenditure related to GDP? I'm very curious about that. Has that been discussed with the CPB yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u264	I do not wish to leave it undisputed, because the speaker from the VVD refers us to Mr Teuling's work in order to better understand what the Dutch government needs to learn from the crisis, that at least I think that is a rather poor reflection of what they would like to learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u265	That may be true, but there's a book, there's a lot of work to be done. I believe that we are all very well able to draw those lessons from the crisis. We have also exchanged a lot of things today that we can say: you could take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u266	In addition. It's not like there's one book, there's bookshelves written all over the crisis. That's a good thing. The point is precisely what the lessons are for this cabinet in this country. Where do we see in cabinet policy that we have learned something from this? That was the specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u267	I got the question. I would point out that, as far as I am concerned, this question is not necessary because we are very well placed to deal with it ourselves. Finally, I welcome the Minister's commitment that I can obtain information from the Ministry of EZ on the reduction of regulatory burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u268	Thank you, Mr Wever. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn. You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u269	Mr President, thank you. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answer, although I must say that a number of questions have not been answered. I must also note that the outstretched hand has not been put in place and that this cabinet remains committed to a vision which, in our view, leads to a race to the bottom. At the same time, the cabinet still invests too little in people and in a public sector that cooks dry. The Minister stated in his reply that the cabinet is already doing a great deal. As far as we are concerned, this is not the beginning of what is needed to catch up after the billion-dollar cuts in the last few years. I also maintain that this is a political choice, independent of fiscal policy and the sustainability of public finances. Do you choose to invest in people? Or do you choose to give money away to business by further lowering the Vpb rate leading the race to the bottom? For the sake of correction, the Minister said that the SP makes different choices and that these are bad for public finances. In the counter-budget submitted by my party together with GroenLinks and the PvdA in the Lower House, we find the same balance. We're gonna be zero, too. In the calculation of the CPB of the SP election programme, we achieved a lower EMU balance, calculated as a percentage of GDP per 2021, than in the CDA election programme, for example. Let me get this straight. We won't agree on the race to the bottom. In my group's view, this has been used. I think we will come back to that in detail when dealing with the Tax Plan. On the issue of division and inequality, I note that neither the Minister nor the Secretary of State has addressed our questions about the inequality of wealth and whether there is agreement or disagreement with three quarters of the population. It has indicated in a study that one would like to see the distribution of power much more equal. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Does the Minister and the Secretary of State consider it normal that 20% of the Dutch population own 81% of the assets? I must congratulate the Minister for his consistency. In the Millions note, the word "poverty" only occurred four times. He also said very little about this in his reply. I do not think he has answered our questions about the increase in the number of working poor and about the persistently high number of poor children in the Netherlands. That is also what I am saying in relation to our motion, which has still not been implemented. I can see that there is some movement and there will be research into the housing market and the division there. Reference is made to a report. I do not think that the answer here is satisfactory as regards social housing and the problems faced by housing companies in their ability to invest sufficiently. The Secretary of State states that it is technically and legally difficult to make an exception with regard to the limitation of the interest deduction. Of course, we could also compensate for this by reducing the landlord's tax to EUR 300 million. There are other ways to catch that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Postema, Mr Binnema, Mr Nagel, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Köhler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the landlord levy and the proposed higher corporation tax as a result of the limitation of the interest deduction impose a burden on housing corporations in such a way that there is a risk that many corporations will not have sufficient investment space to implement the agreed new construction and sustainability programmes;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, well before presenting the proposals for the Tax Plan 2020, whether the overall tax burden on housing corporations hampers agreed investments in the new building of social housing and the sustainability of existing social housing and, if necessary, mitigates measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u270	Finally, we are pleased to note that concerns about the fact that pensions have not been indexed for a very long time are widely shared in this Chamber. It also broadly shares the analysis that this may have to do with the calculation rate. In reply to Mr Van Strien, the Minister said that the funds are about indexation. The point is, of course, that they cannot index because of the interest rate. I think that's what the Secretary of State is about. In the light of that debate, I shall table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Nagel, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Kox, Mr Van Strien, Mr Wezel and Mr Köhler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the fact that pensions have not been indexed for 10 years has led to a loss of 15% in purchasing power;]] [[Whereas the current rules on calculation rates and the necessary buffers prevent the indexation of pensions;]] [[calls on the government to show the necessary flexibility in the consultation on a new pension system with regard to the calculation rate and the buffers needed to enable the indexing of pensions to be restored in the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u272	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren. You have an unlikely number of 14 minutes, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u273	I only need one, ma'am. In the first period, I indicated that the budget is in balance in the view of the CDA Group. The reactions of the rulers underline that image. In the first term, I have put it at the heart of the matter that the policy formulated in the financial and economic field should contribute above all to the stability of society. I have made a number of suggestions in this area, in the areas ofzzp'ers, pensions and dealing with the European problem. I trust that these suggestions will find their way to cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u274	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I give the floor to Mr Postema. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u275	Mr. Chairman. I would like to use the second time to submit the next motion. The President shall: The following motion is proposed by members Postema, Binnema, Van Leeuwen, Van Apeldoorn and Sent: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that with the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers on 15 September 2008, the biggest financial crisis that the world has experienced since the Great Depression of the 1930s;]] [[whereas this financial crisis took place in 2009 in the euro crisis, which the EU has held for years;]] [[Whereas this financial crisis has led to an economic crisis and has led to a double recession in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear the lessons it draws from the financial and economic crisis for the then, current and future government policies, and to inform the Court of Justice of this by 1 April 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u276	Isn't April 1st meant to be ominous?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u277	That's not a joke, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u278	Thank you, Mr. Postema. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan. You have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't have to use it in full. I feel very well served by the Minister and the Secretary of State. If I had to sum up what they have presented as a picture, it would not be complacency on the one hand. We have come out of the crisis very well, but it has taken a long time. There's been a lot of casualties. Those wounds aren't all healed yet. And reforms have been announced, which are far from being achieved. I think they're both well aware of that. We await the labour market proposals. We await the climate proposals. And we hope, of course, that these reforms will be sufficiently convincingly visible. No complacency, but vigilance. That too is actually the image, the red line that runs through it. The recession is behind us, but it is also ahead of us; perhaps just in front of us. In due course, it will require financial back-up and care in public policy, in particular public financial policy. And in many respects, Europe remains a precious but restless asset. In this sense, I listened with great interest to how the Dutch Government imagines the maneuvering between support for the Franco-German axis on the one hand and the leadership that can be given to a northern coalition on the other. I hope, above all, that this first approach will be visible and will remain visible. Moreover, the European pension product is also part of this restless European asset. If you can say anything about this at any time, I would appreciate it. A number of fundamental issues have been discussed. This also fits in with the nature of the discussions that we can have here once a year. I refer to the issue of productivity and its current significance and the issue of economic policy at European and Dutch level. My estimate is that they will keep us occupied. In this sense, I also look forward to a follow-up over a period of time, with this cabinet and with the next cabinet. These are major tasks for every Dutch government. I look forward to the input of these leaders into this great debate with confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u280	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to Mr Binnema. You finished at zero minutes, but you get two minutes. Anyone who's finished at zero gets two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister and the Secretary of State for replying. As regards the comments on race to the bottom and inequality in power, I agree with the questions raised by Mr Van Apeldoorn. The second point that I wanted to mention and which was less addressed in the first period is the Dutch Government's commitment to the Multiannual Financial Framework, which we would at least like to stress. If, on the one hand, you are aiming for modernisation and reform and, on the other hand, you want to keep your hands on the cut, those two can be a bit difficult to relate to each other. Thirdly, it is understandable that both the Minister and the Secretary of State refer to the climate tables, but I would like to emphasise the following. Perhaps we can come back to this more comprehensively in the Tax Plan. It is noted from several quarters that agriculture and road transport........................................................................................................................................................................................... In this way these sectors will not be spared the financial and fiscal measures that are to be taken and which we believe are necessary. The minister talked about broad prosperity. As far as we are concerned, this does not need to be another annex to the new note. We would like it if a gradual process could take place, which is increasingly integrated into the Millions Note and becomes an almost invisible, but clearly part of that Millions Note. Finally, thank you for the answers on the Compliance Act. I would specifically ask the Minister to make a commitment to the Chamber on two points. The first is to pay particular attention to this in the development of the 2020 Millions' Note and its proposals, and therefore to make the requirement of Article 3.1 a material and formal part of the 2020 Millions' Note in this respect. I think the Minister has rightly said that it would be good to involve the Chamber in this. So the second commitment, which I would like to ask the Minister to follow, is to bring the Chamber explicitly and involve it in this process of increasing computability in the coming period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u282	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mr Ester, who also has two minutes because he had finished at zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a pity that the remaining minutes are not negotiable. Thank you to the rulers for the careful answer to my group's questions. We welcome the balanced nature of the budget for 2019. There are no groups that are disproportionate and unacceptable in terms of purchasing power. At the same time, my group would like to emphasise that these purchasing power cards only tell part of the story. We also welcome the Minister's commitment to further integrate the broad concept of prosperity into forthcoming Millions of Notes. We think that's good. We also welcome the Minister's sensitivity to continue to give access to groups that are struggling with electronic payments so that they are not excluded from participation in payments. They are a large group with low digital options or skills. As far as the banks are concerned, my group insists that the buffers of the banks are simply too low. 3% to 4%: we are being very tough about this, but I do not think it is enough to prevent another crisis, at least not along that line. Those buffers just have to go up to 15% to 20%. Companies like Shell and our beloved Unilever keep buffers in the order of 30% to 40%. That seems to me to be a very good thing. Finally, the housing market and the wrong tax incentives in that market. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State indicated that he would look at this, together with his colleague, the Minister of the Interior, among other things when it comes to that "buy to let" phenomenon and in a broader sense as part of the system review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u284	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Schalk, who also has two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u285	Thank you, Madam President. At least that's time enough to make up for a failure. I had not yet congratulated Mr Wever on his maiden speech and that has happened. I have two more questions for the Secretary of State and one for the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has indicated to my question about the high marginal pressure that updating the chart is not easy for 2019. From his answer I understood that we can do it again in 2020/21. I hope for an explanation on 11 December when we discuss the Tax Plan. Next year I'll be there D.V. However, Deo volente is back on track to update the overview. But now that I am not asking for this table, I hope he will give me the other overview, which I spoke to the Minister, but which I said at the time: if that is not possible now, I hope it will be possible for the Tax Plan. This is about purchasing power. I commend the cabinet for trying to get everyone to take advantage of it. For the position of one- and two-earners, even attempts have been made to prevent further widening of the gap. My argument that this was not entirely successful was supported by one example, which has not been refuted. I would ask the Secretary of State to give us an overview of purchasing power in euros, as set out in the first instalment, for two earners who earn fifty-fifty the same as one earner or a single, for different income groups, so that this can still be discussed in the debate on 11 December. With regard to public finances, I would like to ask the Minister the following. He is positive about this and wants to resist the temptation to reduce public debt more quickly or to make public finances more future-proof. I see some risks. I could mention about ten, but I don't have time for that in my last ten seconds. Madam President, I am not a pessimist but I am a realist. Therefore, the cautious question to the Minister: is he prepared to consider whether there is any possibility of making things even more future-proof and whether the accelerated reduction of public debt is possible in the future? I wish, of course, the rulers the blessing of God in the performance of their high office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u286	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve. He also has two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their comprehensive reply. I agree with a great deal and I don't have to go into that anymore. One thing remains above the market in relation to the locational climate. The first point is the reduction of Vpb rates: does this mean a race to the bottom? The Secretary of State has serious doubts about it and believes that with the development of the last few decades, it will be difficult to live up to it. That's where I keep my doubts. The second point is whether it makes sense to seek a better locational environment now and to allocate a great deal of money to it. I'm gonna stick with the 3 billion anyway. What do we want from that? New companies and investments. But doesn't that mean in practice, above all, additional demand for highly educated and technically skilled people? They are needed for this and we do not have them. We just have a lot of vacancies in those sectors. Is that the effect or does the Minister and the Secretary of State think that it will solve our problems: too many vacancies, too many traffic jams, too few homes, too much pollution and a need to come up with climate solutions? I'd like to hear one of the two gentlemen on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u288	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I would ask both directors whether they can respond directly, or whether they want a suspension. I see the Minister nodding yes, so he can answer right away. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance for the second term of office on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u289	Mr President, thank you also for the second-term comments. There were few new questions, but a few old ones. I will leave some of them untouched, but there were also a few questions left. I'll answer that. I do it in the order of the speakers, because thematically it is difficult to classify. First of all, to Mr Van Apeldoorn on the issue of power inequality. In fact, in the Netherlands, wealth is more divided among households than income. That, by the way, is something you see in other rich countries as well. In addition, capital is built up over the course of life, while income inequality between households is measured over a year. This is a comment that the OECD is making. Next, it is said that these kinds of international surveys are extremely difficult to make, much more difficult than income surveys. To complicate things further, we also have a pension system and pension assets, which increases incomparability. What is crucial, in my view, is that Mr Van Apeldoorn and I should be able to agree on this, because it is much more important to create equal opportunities. This is one of the messages of the Millions' Note, for example when it comes to good and accessible education. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked me about a subject which he knows I think is important, namely poverty and, in particular, child poverty. Nor should it be taken into account that the cabinet would not do anything about it, because that is really not right. We're taking action on this. First of all, I would like to say once again that very often the very best thing you can do in terms of poverty policy is to ensure that people get a job. In this respect, I repeat what I said in the first term. As things stand at present, we will be at a low point in 2019 that has not been reached in the area of unemployment since 2001. That is incredibly good news for all those people who found a job and were still writing job applications a few years ago. In addition, 100 million extra per year has been made available since 2017, specifically aimed at poverty reduction in children. The resources will be evaluated by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I'd like to wait for that evaluation. To further content Mr Van Apeldoorn, I note that the Cabinet has made an additional 80 million available for the fight against poverty and debt for 2018 to 2020, plus an additional piece in last August's decision-making. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u290	Thanks for the answer. I'm sure we'll get back to you. One comment and one related question. Helping everyone to get a job is the most important way for the cabinet to fight poverty. I have also noted that recent research by the Social-Cultural Planning Bureau shows that the number of working poor in the Netherlands is increasing. A job is not the solution for everyone. Does the Minister have an answer on how to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u291	The latter is really an important point. It has the special attention of the Minister for Social Affairs, because the promise has always been that, if you were in a situation of poverty before that, you will escape poverty when you have a job. This is still the case in many cases, let me emphasise the good news, but it is a point of attention. The Minister of SZW is working on this. I do not have an immediate, concrete solution. I come to the VVD Group and Mr Wever. He asked a question about innovation and regulatory pressure. Let's talk about innovation first. For start-ups and scale-ups, we offer scope to increase access to finance, for example through a new Seed Business Angels facility of the coming years 10 million and a so-called scale-up fund. So we're doing everything we can. I had already said a few things about the regulation in the first place, such as the way in which the EZK Secretary of State tries to coordinate this. As far as the proceeds are concerned, I still have to make a pass on the spot, which, as far as I am concerned, lies with her. On the issue of healthcare expenditure, I made it very clear to Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Postema that this has our attention, in particular that of the VWS Minister and myself. Mr Wever asked about the link. That was an echo of the question asked by his predecessor last year, but what may have fallen in the transfer between shore and ship. I replied in writing during the first half of this year. To be honest, I took the view that this was an adequate answer to the question. If there are any follow-up questions, I am of course happy to hear them. That brings me to the next speaker. I'm just looking for the list of speakers, because I like to do it in the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u292	You have had Mr Van Strien, Mr Wever, Mr Van Apeldoorn and then comes Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u293	Yeah, I stayed with Van Kesteren. Van Strien hadn't asked me any new questions. That's right. I'm with Van Kesteren. I have something to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn. We are not going to do the previous election debate again, but in the debate in this Chamber on the long-term public finances, it may be appropriate to include that part of the election programme, because that shows a different picture from what it looks like in the short term. I would like to thank Mr Van Kesteren in particular. I very much agree with his comments and his suggestion that his suggestions should find the way to cabinet policy. I do not think Mr Postema had any questions, but he merely tabled a motion. I'll get to that in a minute. This brings me to Mr Rinnooy Kan, whom I still owe a few specific answers. Now that we have the sum of Mr Rinnooy Kan himself and Mr Postema, who has also thrown Mr Teulings into the battle, I would nevertheless like to take a step in the direction of both gentlemen, but also in the direction of the others who have made suggestions in this direction, and to see how I might respond to Mr Rinnooy Kan in particular. I think a first useful step would be to take stock of all that has appeared, because there is an enormous amount of national and international literature about it, and then to come up with an appreciation and show how this is or is not included in cabinet policy. That's kind of a complicated and long exercise, so I'm gonna need a little more time for that. I think the idea should be different from the motion. Perhaps I could buy a little more time, rather than prelude on the motions, and may I ask Mr Postema to hold that motion for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u294	Frankly, I don't quite understand what the Minister is saying. In what sense is the appeal made in the motion not entirely in line with what the Minister can do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u295	Then I'll come back to the motion in a moment. I myself had the impression that Mr Rinnooy Kan's question was a different one. I will come back to that in a moment, but I want to assure him that we are going to look again at his comments on the crisis. A second point that he...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u296	Well, I guess it's on my side. In our motion, we asked for a reflection, above all, on the lessons the cabinet draws from the crisis, not so much an analysis of what has happened, but: what does the cabinet learn from the crisis and how do we see it in future policy? That can be done in the form of a comprehensive letter. It doesn't have to be a very large literature analysis or anything like that. On the contrary, it is very practical how we see this in government policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u297	In the form of a short letter? Then I am back to the first term, in which the blame flies to my ears over the previous too short note. If I have little news to say about it, then it doesn't make much sense to do that research. But I'm about to say something...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u298	To be honest, this sounds a bit like obstruction, so I would like to make a point of this to the Minister. I informed the Minister in the first term and also in the second period that we were not very impressed by a first letter following a motion from this Chamber, which did not yet contain three rules and did not reply at all to the request made by the Chamber. I didn't come back to that in the second term. To be honest, that did not seem appropriate to me either. There is now a proper motion asking for an analysis of the crisis and its lessons for cabinet policy. In the debate on this subject, a lot of things are brought into the discussion. I hear the Minister say something again about literature research and I know what. My approach is correct: you can skip all this, because we already know a lot; write to us now a clear piece of paper that may also be a very comprehensive piece, Minister............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u299	Mr President, it was mild irony in view of the clock. I'll be right with the motion. I was at another point. I have two further points on which I owe Mr Rinnooy Kan an answer. He has previously made a remark about productivity and his amazement, which I can support in part, that per hour worked productivity is lagging behind in the Netherlands. Productivity, we all know, is a sum of how much you know to do in an hour times the number of hours that you do in a day times the number of days that you do in a year times the number of people that do the same. Mr Rinnooy Kan's question struck the first piece in particular in the sum I am trying to make. I'd like to come back to that one more time. I would like to add that I am underlining what Mr Rinnooy Kan himself says, namely that more people have expressed their surprise at this, but not directly have a solution. Whether I shake it out of my sleeve quickly remains to be seen. At least we're gonna take a look at it. Then there's the PEPP. I just wanted to see if there was any news about a few weeks or months ago. It is good to mark once again that we, the Netherlands, are critical of this so-called Pan-European Personal Pension Product. It is easy to understand why other countries in Europe see the advantage of this, but for the Dutch situation, with our first, second and third pillars, it is probably very limited in value added. The Lower House asked the cabinet to vote against this European framework per motion. I have learned that I should not repeat how seriously I take motions from both Chambers of the States-General, but that is, of course, a fact that I must be very closely involved in this assessment. Very briefly, the stakes on the main lines. The proposal must not jeopardise the obligations in our second pillar. Everyone here will agree to that. The proposal must not affect taxation. And we also want to limit the number of delegated acts. Let me also assure Mr Rinnooy that if there is any news on that file, we will inform the Chamber. I would like to thank Mr Binnema once again for his comments on the Compatibility Act. Perhaps it is good to mention that I am expressly in discussion with the House of Representatives and that the House of Representatives has appointed two rapporteurs for the operation Inzicht in kwaliteit. That's the tandem Fast and Faster, not to be confused with the Secretary of State. They are the rapporteurs and look at the piece related to the Compatibility Act, but they also look more broadly at the Quality Insight operation. I think it's wise that if there are bigger movements in that, then I'll inform the First Chamber of that too. I would like to thank Mr Esser for his compliments and his comments in the second term. Then I have arrived at Mr Schalk. It is perhaps good to repeat that where I was talking about the short-term temptations, it is actually much more about the encouragement that is often heard in politics and elsewhere to spend even more. I have described this as the paradox of my work before. There are all kinds of complicated choices you have to make as Minister of Finance at a time of low economics, but in some ways it's more difficult to look after the treasury at a time of high economics. The Dutch have some understanding for cuts and tightening the belt, but the idea now and then seems to be that there is a lot of money and that it should be spent in the here and now. We don't. Next year there will be a very substantial surplus. This has also been the case over the past year or this year. We must try to hold on to that line, just by continuing the trend of budgeting. This means that we do not have to spend extra money now, but we do not have to make too dramatic cuts, if we are able to do so for a long time, at a next downturn. I would like to thank Mr Schalk very much for his encouragement towards the cabinet. That helps me to be serious about that, too, in the direction of the others I am speaking in or outside the cabinet who still have good ideas for additional wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u300	I thank the Minister, of course, for the answers, but I did not ask him to spend extra, but rather to save extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u301	That's how I understood the question. I have just tried to outline that out of those three picket poles perhaps the picket pole that is under the most pressure from speeding up public finances. I do not mean in particular by those who have spoken about it here, but at the same time there is regular pressure, including from various parties in the House of Representatives, to spend more money. My answer is always: let us hold on, long-term, to the trend of budgeting. Because that's actually a lot more than balance control. That is the best guarantee to do well with a procyclical economy and therefore often procyclical budget, as we have in the Netherlands. I sincerely believe that what I said to Mr Schalk on this subject, and indeed Mr Rinnooy Kan and others, will help me to keep this and that from time to time. I would like to thank Mr Ten Hoeve for his constructive and very well thought-out remarks, as always. The specific question he has asked will be answered by the Secretary of State in a moment. Then I have a few motions. The first motion is Mr Van Apeldoorn's motion on letter J. It won't be surprising that, given the above, I have to advise against it. In my view, I have explained this adequately in the first period. The second motion on letter I on housing corporations and corporation tax is, in my view, up to the Secretary of State. I'm gonna take a look at the right. Well, I can do it, too. Whichever one of us does it, we need to dissuade the motion. It's about mitigating measures, but they're out of coverage. Mr. Chairman. Then I am at Mr Postema's motion on letter K. What I wanted to argue is that there was a broader crisis than just a banking crisis. I do think it would be wise to look at what kind of international research has been done, also because I simply know the limitations in the Ministry. I would really like to look first of all at what lessons to draw, then give an appreciation of it, and to show the Chamber to what extent lessons in the policy of the previous cabinet or in the policy of this cabinet have been dropped. I would like to take a little more time for that than before 1 April. Perhaps that will work, but that is why, frankly, I would like to stick to the generous commitment I made to Mr Postema, and ask him to hold on to the motion because, in my opinion, it narrows things down a bit more than is necessary, at least in terms of time. I hope he understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u302	In the motion we mention 1 April as the end date. The chairman said that was dangerous. What if we turned that into June 1st? Then we'll have him in just before this room changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u303	That is, of course, easier in terms of time. In the meantime, I'm just quick to read the final piece of the motion. It can go both ways. Frankly, I have already promised many of the things that stand here, but with this colouring and perhaps also with the appreciation I have given to Mr Rinnooy Kan, the motion is, in a sense, superfluous, but I can also leave the judgment to the Chamber. So let me do the latter. That brings me to the last motion, and that is the motion by Mr Van Apeldoorn again. I'm gonna have to... Do I have the right one here? No, I think I'm just all through it. Let me not make life more complicated than it is and do not dissuade Mr Van Apeldoorn's motion twice! Mr President, I think I can leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u304	Thank you, Minister. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a few more questions and yet that one motion. I was a little confused by the Minister's count, because I probably didn't write down the order correctly myself. I would like to say a little more about Mr Van Apeldoorn's motion on that investigation. But let me start with the questions. There is another question which is open from Mr Schalk. The marginal pressure comes back to the Tax Plan and at least next year. I'll keep that promise with him. So I'm expecting that question, too. I can prepare for that. The second question was more specific about purchasing power and even more specific about the purchasing power of one and two earners. He had the example of a family and asked me to express the purchasing power in euros, because that is more significant for a family than relative terms. The Minister has just explained that in purchasing power these relative terms are important. That's also the standard we use for that. It is also the way the planning agency always calculates purchasing power. It's also the way I think it's best to do this, also because sometimes you get categories. Do you have to take the median or the average? That makes it all a lot more complicated. We have the purchasing power plates, we have the point clouds, the box plots, we have all the differences between one and two earners, with and without children. My feeling is that even more pictures in euros do not necessarily give even more insight into the problem that Mr Schalk wants to raise, that there can be a difference with the same family income between one and two earners. I think it's good to talk about that. We can use specific euro examples, but I think that trying to express a kind of new way of purchasing power in euro terms is technically very difficult and not the way I want to go. I can imagine the question "what's the deal?" For example, when the Tax Plan is being dealt with, I will reply to it in a specific case. But I hope that Mr Schalk understands my hesitation in moving to a kind of new euro-buying power picture, because it can lead to all sorts of uncertainties, including technical ones. Then I had a question from Mr Ten Hoeve. He was satisfied with the answers about the location climate. I hope that the uncertainties about the numbers have now been clarified. I think that the greatest ambiguity was that we had once entered 3.3 in the coalition agreement for the reduction of the Vpb, but that this became 4.2 through the adjustment and the review. This also applies to a number of basic measures, i.e. the numbers I mentioned: 4.2, low rate, and 3.6. Those numbers are right. We just checked. That really is the last piece of legislation we have proposed. But his question was more general: would it make sense to do even more for the locational environment than we have already done and could we not also do other important expenditure and lighten the burden? In itself, this is ultimately a political weighting. I think, and we believe with the cabinet, that good locational climate is not only about attracting large or small companies to the Netherlands, but also about encouraging entrepreneurship in the Netherlands. We think that's important. We also need successful entrepreneurs to ultimately raise enough money in our tax mix to help finance our facilities. In that respect, I think it is important that you try to move on to a system in which you have the idea of doing so, for example, with that tax shift from direct to indirect, that you do what we like to do, that you make a profit, that you do not burden entrepreneurship too heavily, and that you, for example, are going to look at environmental taxes or energy taxes or pollution taxes to see if you can come up with a new tax mix that also does more justice to the changing society. One of the points rightly mentioned by Mr Binnema is driving. We are currently raising a lot of money with excise duties and taxes on cars, while we know that the entire fleet is going to change. In the end, therefore, we are making much less use of traditional means. We must also look for a new tax mix. When searching for this mix, the cabinet ultimately decides to give a share to the locational climate, not only to attract the locational climate, but also to the people who are already here. That is why we have chosen to do so. But it all remains and-and-and, as the Minister always explains so beautifully. This is important, but all the other things around the welfare level in the Netherlands remain important and this cabinet will continue to invest in it. We don't do that with a chest beat. But at the moment there is no very weak policy, with the extra money we spend on public services, such as education. I come to the motion with letter I by Mr Van Apeldoorn. The motion is about the investigation into the housing corporations. I took a good look at that. In general, it is quite easy to say in a research motion: well, let's look at it again. But if I look closely at this motion, I also see a number of elements in the recitals which I do not agree with. I don't think they're right. I also find it a little strange, before we know what is coming out of the climate tables, to suggest that there is too little investment capacity left for this particular group to contribute to this. We'll see. Again, it is not the case that the tax burden for this group is increasing during this cabinet period. It's going down, I'm just gonna say again, for all the clarity. I therefore think it is far too early to ask for a possible investigation and related mitigation measures at this stage. And I don't think it's wise to put it away like this. Apart from that: if you read the sentence very well, the causality between the research and what we should prove is non-existent to me. But we'll leave that to a fine reader. For all these reasons, I think on balance: dissuade from our side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u306	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-eerstekamer-8.u307	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
