ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 35000-VI, adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Justice and Security for the year 2019, namely the Immigration and Asylum section. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. In the policy priorities, this budget speaks of migration, which, I quote, 'is well suited to the capacity and need of Dutch society'. If we take that as a starting point, there are many questions and comments to be made about the migration and asylum policy that this Rutte III cabinet is implementing. Because what is the capacity of Dutch society? What is the Secretary of State looking at? How does he determine this one? Is our citizens being asked anything? Is that the financial capacity, i.e. the billions of taxpayers' money that the Dutch taxpayer is entitled to raise annually for the maintenance of mass immigration and its effects? Are these the Dutch house seekers, who have to be on waiting lists for years because status holders in many municipalities still get priority for social housing, while that is no longer legally required, and in any case make a heavy change in the offer of housing? Is this capacity also for social security, the nuisance, crime and intimidation in and around azc's, like the recent mass fighting in the Azc Overloon, with knives and bats, where our policemen were also attacked? Or the massive nuisance for shopkeepers and neighbors around the azc's in Ter Apel and Budel? At that azc in Budel, the Azc school is now housed at a regular primary school in the village of Maarheeze, making fewer premises and facilities available for the own students from the village and one in three students from the school will come from the azc. Many parents are not happy about this at all, to say the least. Is that also the capacity the Secretary of State proposes? I'd like a response to that. And, of course, the Islamisation that mass immigration entails, not only in the large cities but also in the rural cores. For example, in villages and towns like Eersel, Heesch or Zaltbommel, the street image is increasingly determined by headscarfs and long Islamic robes. Many Somalis and Syrians who do not adapt to our country but impose Islam on our country. Is this Islamization also part of the capacity of the Secretary of State? The Islamisation that via the asylum influx reaches the Netherlands is an acute danger to our country. Last year, a Syrian IS fighter was recognised in a debate at the Amsterdam debate centre De Balie. He had come to the Netherlands in 2014 with a blank passport issued by the Islamic State. Here in the Netherlands, he was granted a residence permit as an asylum seeker. Despite being active in Syria in the Islamic terror group Jabhat al-Nusra, he was not arrested in the Netherlands. Only a year later, at the end of October, he was arrested on suspicion of terrorism. Two weeks ago, his brother was arrested in the Brabant village of Bergeijk for suspected participation in terrorist activities at Jabhat al-Nusra, further from money laundering and underground banking. This Syrian had a social rental house in this village and had his own sandwich shop in Eindhoven, which was probably a cover for his money laundering practices. It was also announced last week that two Syrian asylum seekers from Oosterhout and Bergen op Zoom were convicted of terrorist activities at Jabhat al-Nusra as well. These terrorist cousins entered the Netherlands in 2015 and received a residence permit and a residence. In addition, they smuggled a friend from Greece to the Netherlands and a hemp plantation was found in their Oosterhout home. What about the asylum policy of the Rutte cabinet? Is it capacity to provide Islamic terrorists with residence permits and our social services and rental homes, while here they are dealing with smuggling and crime? Can the Secretary of State explain how such criminal Islamic terrorists could be so comfortably received? How many more such cases could be in our towns and villages, and what will the cabinet do about it? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. And what are all those Syrians still doing here? As indicated in previous debates, many Syrians have already returned to their own country from other countries and the Netherlands is still bringing them in and will soon provide them with a permanent residence permit after a period of five years. Then they'll never leave. The ministerial reports on the security situation in Syria on which this State Secretary bases his return policy are politically coloured. For example, last June's notice uses the Middle East Eye as a source, on page 50 of the notice of office. This is an organization funded by Qatar and associated with the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas. On the basis of such Islamic activist sources, should the capacity be demanded from the Netherlands not to send back the large groups of Syrians? I would like a reply from the Secretary of State on all the points raised about carrying capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr Van Hattem seems to be basing himself on one source from the posts. I didn't check that out. All I know is that ministry reports are based on numerous reports of authoritative institutions, so never on the basis of a single report from one specific interest organisation. So I do like to wait for the answer from the Secretary of State. But I wonder what Mr Van Hattem is basing himself on when he says that Syria is once again a safe country for Syrians. We still know that the war situation is not over, that everything is broken in the country and that in fact all European countries are still protecting people. The Netherlands is not alone in that. So I wonder what objective information Mr Van Hattem then bases himself on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u5	First of all, about this source, which is used at all by such a source here in a post of office, is actually too shameful for words. That a ministry dares to base itself on that is the world upside down. Then about the large groups of Syrians, yes, from Lebanon and other surrounding countries there are already very large groups of thousands of Syrians who can simply return to their own country. Then why not the Syrians who are here in the Netherlands, who will be here for more than five years and get a permanent residence permit? We need to be able to take that step if it is possible to return there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u6	On the one hand, of course, Syrians can no longer go to Lebanon or Jordan, because those countries are overcrowded and overcrowded, so they have just closed their borders. And indeed, when people cross the border again, it is because there is no longer any possibility of shelter. That does not mean that they can actually return to Syria sustainably, and certainly not if that would go with millions, if the whole of Europe would send people back to Syria as well. So I would ask again for the objective information that Mr Van Hattem would have, which shows that all Syrians can return sustainably at this time and actually have the care and opportunity they need to build a life there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u7	The same statement of office shall also state that such return is taking place. If that happens to some extent, I'll make that assessment in a different way. GroenLinks apparently wants to do everything possible to keep those Syrians here, to let in more asylum seekers. I understand that from the point of view of GroenLinks, but we as PVV simply say clearly: if thousands of Syrians from Lebanon and other countries, Turkey among others, can return to Syria, then the Netherlands must also take that step and not let Syrians back in here, and let the Syrians who sit here return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u8	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u9	I note that the PVV Group is apparently based solely on reports about a number of people who have returned from Lebanon and Jordan, but I hear that there is no objective information underneath it which shows that we can send people back to Syria and that they will not be put at risk and will have the opportunity to build up a life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u10	Large parts of Syria are clearly safe enough. That's why they're returning. This is reported in UNHCR reports, the IOM et cetera, so that is what we are talking about. As soon as that happens, we must also dare to allow those Syrians to return to their country in order for them to rebuild that country themselves. Otherwise, it's never gonna be good enough there. As I said, what are these Syrians still doing here? Mr. Chairman. The other point that this budget refers to about migration is 'the need of Dutch society'. Here too, the question of how the Secretary of State identifies this need. Based on what? And is our citizens being asked anything? The latter is clearly not the case. This cabinet, despite the great social resistance, endorsed the UN migration pact in Marrakesh, thus facilitating even more mass immigration. The Dutch citizens clearly do not need this self-destruct pact, but this cabinet pushes it through through a meaningless insert. This cabinet does not ask whether Dutch society needs to close our borders for even more mass immigration, but regulates mass immigration and asylum influx as a constant source of migration. The figures in this budget are clear. In the longer term, the influx of asylum does not show a downward trend, but a constant rate of over 21,000 per year. Eventually, the realization figures will be significantly higher again, as was shown last year. And thanks to the bed-bath-bread arrangement extended by this budget, asylum seekers will hardly leave our country. Yesterday, the Ministry announced that it would deposit an additional 21.5 million into the asylum reserve to cover a higher asylum influx in the coming years. With the provisions of the Marrakesh Pact in place, the subsidised asylum lawyer can and will enforce even more residence and social rights. Also, the numbers for naturalization requests remain constant at 23,000 per year. Every year in terms of population, a provincial city is added. A regulated, systematic replacement of the Dutch population by migrants from Islamic countries in particular in the Middle East and Africa. Is that "the need of Dutch society," I ask our Secretary of State. Furthermore, the budget states that this cabinet intends to bring the UN Refugee Treaty to the fore, so that the treaty provides a'sustainable legal framework for the international asylum policy of the future'. The question to the Secretary of State is how to explain this passage. First of all, the 'international asylum policy of the future'. Does this mean that the focus of policy will no longer be on our national policies, but on international asylum policy? Is that what the Global Compacts should lay the foundations for? And how does this'sustainable legal framework' relate to the non-binding legal nature of this Global Compact, which this cabinet has assumed? Does the future international asylum policy force this on our country with legal consequences? Can the Secretary of State indicate who should actually determine, implement and control international asylum policy in his future view? I'd like a response. How does this "bringing the UN Refugee Treaty to its time" relate to the Global Compact on Refugees, the GCR, which builds systematically on the current treaty? Is it not quite contradictory to support that GCR, while the underlying treaty is no longer up-to-date? How can the text of the GCR be in line with the objectives of the coalition agreement, as indicated in the cabinet letter on this subject, if this treaty is no longer timely? In addition, this letter states that the legal framework of the GCR is constituted by the UN Refugee Treaty enshrined in the EU acquis. Does this not simply mean that all the provisions of the GCR will eventually be imposed on the Netherlands through the EU, because the GCR will be translated into the EU acquis? Can the Secretary of State indicate what the legal consequences could be for the Netherlands? This budget states that the Cabinet intends to amend legislation in such a way that it is more in line with European legislation. The same applies to the Global Compact for Migration, the GCM. The decision of the European Council of 21 March 2018 under number COM(2018) 168 authorised the European Commission to approve the GCM in the area of immigration policy on behalf of the Union. Through the Union, the Netherlands is thus also associated as a Member State. At least 27 Member States have committed themselves to this. In view of this, can the Secretary of State indicate how the EU acquis could lead to legal consequences for the Netherlands resulting from the EU ratification of the GCM? According to the letter from the cabinet to the House of Representatives on the GCM, the policy options mentioned in the GCM are optional, but can the EU adopt these policy options and add the Netherlands to them through the EU acquis? Can the Secretary of State give us a ruling on this? These policy options also seem less optional through the GCM itself than this cabinet produces. The paragraph on implementation is very clear. For example, Article 41 states literally, and I quote: "We commit to fullfil the objectives and commitments outlined in the Global Compact," and then talk about "taking effective steps" to achieve this. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this relates to the optional nature he has assumed? And how does he think this passage will be interpreted by judges who, in the words of this cabinet, "can be inspired by the pact"? I'd like a response. Can the Secretary of State also explain the implementation referred to in Article 41? Let me quote again: 'We will implement the Global Compact'. That does not sound very optional, nor does the provision "the Global Compact is to be implemented in a matter that is consistent with all rights and obligations under international law." Is that without any legal effect? And can the Secretary of State explain what the other provisions on implementation in this paragraph will mean for our country, either directly or through the EU acquis? Both Article 44 and Article 46 even refer to a biennial monitoring of implementation. I'd like a response. In this context, the question of how the Secretary of State interprets the response of the German Chancellor Merkel in the Bundestag. It states that if the UN resolution is adopted by two thirds of all countries, it is valid for all Member States. Can the Secretary of State state state to what extent this is true and what its consequences might be? Following the reply letter received last night from the Secretary of State, we still have a number of questions and comments. The Secretary of State claims that no concrete rights can be distilled from the GCM and no existing rights or obligations deepened. At the same time, the Secretary of State acknowledges that judges can be inspired by the GCM. That's contradictory. Can the Secretary of State specify where such inspiration from judges may relate if he is so convinced that no rights or obligations arising from the GCM arise? I'd like a response. The Secretary of State also states that the resolution at the UN is not legally binding. Can the Secretary of State indicate what the statement of views adds? Or is the Secretary of State not fully convinced that the resolution cannot be legally binding? After all, he also states that potential legal effects might be possible in the case of a resolution adopted unanimously. Can the Secretary of State explain what that difference is? On what basis does the Secretary of State base a judge's assessment of whether or not a resolution has been adopted unanimously? The Netherlands is committed to the resolution by any agreement. Is the resolution not binding on those countries which do support it? Can the Secretary of State indicate in concrete terms what form of potential legal transmission that could be? Can the Secretary of State also make it clear whether the implementation of the resolution is entirely but truly non-binding? Can the Secretary of State rule out the possibility that there could be consequences of non-implementation of the Global Compact? Can the Secretary of State confirm that he is not going to actively implement any of the GCM's policy options as, according to his reasoning, this would already be part of Dutch policy? Please respond to all these points. On the proposal of the European Commission of 21 March 2018, the State Secretary indicates that 27 Member States have adopted a shared position. Can the Secretary of State specify the consequences of this? Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly what the EU's role and involvement in the creation, implementation and implementation of the Global Compact is and how it relates to the EU acquis? I'd like a response. Can the Secretary of State give a full overview of all the international networks of civil society organisations and industry and other non-state actors and their concrete input into the GCM process? This can also be done in writing. According to a letter from the UN to Switzerland and Finland as described in De Standaard of 8 December last, the presence in Marrakesh does not yet create any commitments to the Pact. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? After all, the Pact still has to be ratified by resolution by the United Nations General Assembly on 19 December, tomorrow. So there's another way back. Therefore, the PVV Group will table two motions calling on the government to instruct the Dutch representation at the United Nations General Assembly not to support the GCM and the GCR. Furthermore, Brazil has already indicated that after 1 January, when their new government has taken office, it will withdraw from the Pact. The debate is also taking place in Belgium to get out of the pact after the elections and to make it part of the government negotiations. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent this is possible for the Netherlands and whether it will also be possible to cancel participation in the Pact through the EU acquis? Is the Secretary of State prepared to withdraw from the Pact if, for example, there is evidence of legal consequences? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Let's get one thing straight. We absolutely must not participate in this Marrakesh self-destruct pact. So much for my first term. I'm filing motions now. The President shall: Members Van Hattem, Aardema, Peter van Dijk, Faber-van de Klashorst, Ton van Kesteren, Kok, Van der Sluijs and Van Strien propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 19 December 2018 a resolution is before the United Nations General Assembly in New York to ratify the Global Compact on Migration;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Dutch Representation to the UNGA not to agree to this resolution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] The President shall: Members Van Hattem, Aardema, Peter van Dijk, Faber-van de Klashorst, Niek Jan van Kesteren, Van der Sluijs and Van Strien propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas on 19 December 2018 a resolution is before the United Nations General Assembly in New York to ratify the Global Compact on Refugees,]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Dutch Representation to the UNGA not to agree to this resolution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-G]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VI-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. In the 1990s, migration, worldwide and to Europe, increased to a high level. The end of the Cold War, the break-up of the Soviet Union, the ongoing war in the Horn of Africa, the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, the wars in Yugoslavia, the crisis of many states in sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and South and Central America: all these crises led to large flows of refugees and migrant workers, including towards Western Europe. For refugees there was and exists a reasonably robust international legal regime, the Geneva Convention on Refugees. In addition, in the 1990s the reaction of the Western countries was mainly one of combating illegal migration by making secret international agreements: the so-called Budapest process in Europe and the similar Puebla process in America. For regular labour migration, the tendency was, entirely in line with the neoliberal spirit of the 1990s, to leave its regulation mainly to the market, under the care of the World Trade Organisation GATS, the General Agreement on Trade in Services. Around the year 2000, I wrote a number of articles on the international migration and refugee crisis, in which I opposed these two trends: against the undemocratic nature of the secret intergovernmental deals and against neoliberal market thinking about labour migration. I noted that global migration could best be regulated by bringing it to the level of the United Nations through a general framework agreement setting out fundamental principles, which could then be implemented in regional treaties. After all, migration takes place to a large extent in regional contexts. The UN framework would provide the advantage that all countries would be represented on the basis of equivalence. The Marrakesh Pact concluded a week ago has a lot to do with the framework agreement as I had in mind at the time. So that's good news. However, much will depend on how the concrete implementation is designed. Is the government primarily committed to bilateral agreements or does the government also see the possibility, for example, of making agreements between the European Union and other regional organisations such as the African Union, I ask the Secretary of State? In the House of Representatives, the government has argued that the Netherlands already fulfils all the objectives of the Pact and that the Pact will be particularly useful if countries of origin of irregular migrants are to be able to take on their responsibilities. If that's the government's approach, I'm not predicting much. Such negotiations will only produce results if there is serious progress for both sides. And on the Dutch side there is still a lot to improve. I'll take an example from the headline. In the Lower House, for example, the Secretary of State was asked about the fifth objective of the compact, which talks about "enhancing legal pathways for migration." The translation of this is a problem. I make it "improving the legal opportunities for migration," something that is also highlighted in the integrated Agenda on Migration presented earlier by the government. The Secretary of State then stated that the Netherlands already has a good system of employment permits for workers from outside the EU. Well, in the opinion of our group, there is a need to reverse that statement. The main objection is that such an employment permit is requested by the employer and must be renewed annually. It is only after five years that the worker can obtain a work permit for an indefinite period and is free to change employer. The employee is therefore completely dependent on his or her employer for five years. That often goes well, fortunately there are a lot of decent and benevolent employers. But it also goes wrong in a number of cases. Workers are forced to pay the costs of an extension procedure themselves. They do not receive a timely extension during the course of their journey, forcing them to work illegally for some time. Workers who receive nominally the collective wage in question are forced to give part of it to the employer, supposedly to pay off a loan they have never taken out. And they get fired in their senior year and replaced by another victim. We would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this. Does he recognize these problems? The employees in question often do not master the Dutch language enough to properly understand the documents they receive or the correspondence they receive from the UWV. They often have no idea how to defend themselves against the abuse by the employer, afraid if they are then losing their jobs and having to leave the country. Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of the measures taken by the Government to combat this abuse? What options are there to reform the existing system in such a way that workers are no longer at the mercy of malicious employers? Where can employees go when they are dealing with this kind of abuse? We are aware that this is a matter which, above all, concerns the Ministry of Social Affairs and that a comprehensive answer may not be possible now. Therefore, through the Secretary of State, the SP Group asks the Cabinet to send a letter to the Chamber before 1 March 2019, which can be discussed in this House at a joint meeting of the Committees on Social Affairs and Employment and Immigration and Asylum / JHA Council. A further concern concerns the policy pursued by the State Secretary with regard to minors involved in asylum and expulsion procedures. Recently, a number of researchers from the University of Groningen and the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam published a note on the damage to the physical, emotional and social development of children caused by the threat of expulsion after a long stay in the Netherlands. Has the Secretary of State taken note of this note? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that the findings in this note are cause for concern? This note calls on us to consider that the treatment of these minors is at odds with the Dutch obligations under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Article 3 (1) of that Convention reads as follows: "In all measures relating to children, whether taken by public or private social welfare institutions or by courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the child's interests are the first consideration'. The Global Compact on Migration, the Marrakesh Pact, incorporates this principle with reference to the internationally accepted concept of best interests of the child; perhaps to translate it as "most in the best interest of the child." For the members of the SP Group, all this leads to the following questions to the Secretary of State. How are the interests of these children defined by the Ministry and the IND in these matters, in other words what is "most in the best interest of the child" in this case? How is this principle safeguarded in these matters? Partly the Secretary of State answered these questions in the letter we received last night, but as a result of the time pressure many questions remained unanswered. Can the Secretary of State promise that this Chamber will receive those answers, if possible around the time the Chamber returns from recess? Is the right of asylum, as I then ask, not too limited a framework to allow the child's interests to come to their full capacity? Is our impression that the issue of children's rights also plays a role in other policy areas? To what extent is there coordination within the government between departments in any way related to compliance with the ICRC? In addition to the Ministry of Justice and Security in the areas of family law and right of asylum, I am thinking in particular of the Ministry of Youth Services. How is the government fulfilling the necessary directional function with regard to compliance with the ICRC? Mr President, my group is curious about the answers and is considering proposing to the standing committees for VWS and for I&A to hear a number of experts on these issues after the Christmas holidays. I would like to raise a very specific and urgent point. More than 16,000 refugees are currently facing their fourth winter on the Greek islands. They are in a hopeless situation. The EU Member States have still not fulfilled all their commitments. In a petition yesterday, the stand was 44,000 signatures................................................................................................................................................................................................... Two questions to the Secretary of State: will the Secretary of State undertake, following Portugal's example, to bring 1,000 refugees from the Greek islands to the Netherlands and will the Secretary of State undertake to take a new initiative at European level to resolve this very specific and embarrassing problem for the whole of Europe and to report to the Chamber within two months?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u12	Do I hear the SP now plead to get even more asylum seekers, lucky seekers to the Netherlands, while Dutch families are already incredibly difficult to get by and are already facing a lot of costs and burdens, making the waiting lists for rental homes even longer? That's what the SP's arguing for now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u13	The SP notes that the Dutch Government has committed itself at European level to resolving an existing emergency situation on the Greek islands. Those promises regarding the resolution of the emergency have so far not been met. The only thing the SP pleads for is: honour is guilty, we still have to keep that promise. Those 16,000 people who enter the Greek islands in their fourth winter under inhuman conditions have the right to be brought out of that misery in a decent manner. That is the position of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u14	So I can conclude that the SP says: we want to get 1,000 additional asylum seekers to the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u15	He calls it asylum seekers and you call it happiness seekers, I call it refugees. They have been waiting four years for the European Union to live up to its words and to submit the people to a serious asylum procedure to see if they are indeed eligible for a status. That's what I'm advocating. And you can get there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Overbeek, please go through the chairman. And I would also like Mr Van Hattem to speak out. But you'll have to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u17	Then I will wait until Mr Van Hattem has finished speaking, otherwise I will lose the point of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u18	He wasn't done talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u19	I have to conclude that people who have illegally crossed from Turkey to Greece to enforce asylum must be brought to the Netherlands in the European Union, while in Turkey they were already in a safe country, from the SP, from the Socialist Party, while enough Dutch families are already in great misery and are waiting for years. And so we still have to allocate extra social housing to 1,000 such asylum seekers! That's what the SP pleads for. You leave your own Dutch people, your own people on waiting lists for social housing, literally standing in the cold. That's what the SP does here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u20	I note that Mr Van Hattem is trying to repeat a debate we have had here a few times recently. I would like to raise a very limited but poignant point. Commitments entered into by us as the Netherlands and as the European Union are not being fulfilled. People are in the mud on the Greek islands. They didn't cross illegally, they crossed in search of protection. They also have the right of the European Union to this protection. We have often debated the issue of the shortage of social housing. If you say "we think all measures should be taken to increase the stock of social housing in this country," you will find us by your side. But what we don't want to participate in is setting up one group of rental seekers against the other group of house seekers. That's a line the SP doesn't want to follow. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. The global problem of irregular and regular migration is complex, also in the context of the relationship between Europe and Africa. In the face of the huge income gap now, it is one in eleven and this gap is still growing, and in the light of the huge demographic gap with population contraction or stagnation in Europe and very rapid population growth in Africa, migratory pressures will remain very high in the coming decades. Whether we like it or not, whether we want to close our eyes to it or not, reality commands us to recognise that this great social problem exists and will continue to exist for the time being. Seriously and effectively addressing the root causes of poverty, social disruption, armed conflicts........................................................................................................................................................................................ Migration pressures will initially only increase further. All research on development processes shows that in the first instance successful development leads to greater mobility and greater migration movement. In the meantime, Europe has virtually completely closed down the possibilities for legal migration other than through asylum. This has all kinds of consequences. Aspirant migrants apply as asylum seekers and we have heard from Mr Van Hattem about this even if they do not have the right to asylum according to the standards of the UN Refugee Convention, which makes the asylum system hopelessly clogged. After rejection, most of these people are left behind in Europe, where they work as illegal migrant workers. Of course, estimates of these numbers are extremely unreliable and difficult to make, but a rough estimate shows that there are at least 2 to 4 million people in Europe who fall into this category. The smugglers benefit greatly from this, and every new obstacle will mainly push up the price and expose migrants even more to various forms of modern debt slavery. Authorities in North Africa and the Sahel are often involved in this smuggling industry or turn a blind eye for a fee. Governments in sub-Saharan Africa also have an interest in the survival of illegal migration. It generates foreign exchange revenue thanks to the money that migrants send to their families, and a social security valve, because the strongest and most initiativeary young men leave. That is why governments often do not cooperate in the return of illegal migrants, rejected asylum seekers and others who do not have valid residence status. The Marrakesh Pact may provide opportunities for agreements to be reached with governments in sub-Saharan Africa that can break this vicious circle. As I said earlier, I do not believe that this will work if the consultation is one-way. I can see that line in all the answer given by the Secretary of State, including in the letter we received last night. The governments concerned will have no reason to fundamentally change the existing situation unless Europe really has something to offer that goes beyond the current policy, which is mainly about combating irregular migration. Can the Secretary of State take us into his thoughts on this? Which way does he want it to go with this? Mr President, I will conclude. Migration is of all times. If it wasn't, we'd all still be sitting on a rug in East Africa somewhere. But today we live in a world of nation states, characterized by huge differences in terms of prosperity and population dynamics. The migration processes, which will undoubtedly continue to occur in the future, will therefore often hurt. It is encouraging that the UN has succeeded in aligning virtually all countries with the signing of the Marrakesh Pact, but the practice will have to show whether that promise is being fulfilled. What are governments going to do about this? Mr President, the members of the SP Group are eagerly looking forward to the reply by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Overbeek. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the PvdA Group. Mr. Chairman. The dark days before Christmas provide a good background for a discussion of Dutch asylum policy towards people looking for protection. But there are also more concrete reasons to use the budget for a discussion with the Secretary of State. In my speech, I will deal in particular with two issues: the announced restriction of legal aid in the general asylum procedure and the Venezuelan citizens who are seeking safe passage in the countries of our Kingdom. On 16 November, the Secretary of State sent a letter to the House of Representatives on the state of play in the framework of the Flexibilisering Asylum Chain Programme. Although this letter on the intention to restrict legal aid to asylum seekers refers to a legislative amendment, my group has learned that this will only be dealt with through an AMvB. My first question is also whether that is correct. For us, the use of the rapid and light procedure for such a far-reaching measure gives rise to an exchange of views with the Secretary of State on the reasons and possible effects of this proposal. We find the basis of the proposed measure to abolish legal aid to some extent in the coalition agreement. I quote: "Legal assistance is provided in line with EU rules following a refusal of an asylum application, including for the relief of the judicial chain. This releases capacity from the IND that is deployed elsewhere." Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has an unprecedentedly short asylum procedure at European level, which in principle leads to a decision on an asylum application in eight working days. This is ultra-short for legal complex cases, as well as a term used by the Secretary of State for asylum applications in which an asylum seeker who has just arrived in the Netherlands has no network here, does not know the language and culture and often carries a certain distrust of the government and traumas from the experience in his own country. All in all, not an ideal communication basis for a procedure of more than a week. Perhaps even more important is that the asylum seeker does not know which information is most relevant for the IND to make a decision. For all these reasons, until 2010, the IND managed to make a decision in the registration centre procedure, which at that time consisted of four working days. In that year the government decided to double the duration of the AC procedure, on the basis that a first decision would normally be taken within eight days. In order to make such a quick procedure feasible and more careful, it was decided to use the lawyer more widely, even prior to the procedure. That is why the lawyer is currently granting legal aid in three stages. The first phase consists of preparation for the procedure, where the lawyer also identifies whether the asylum seeker is suitable for the AA and whether further documentation or research is needed. The second stage is the follow-up of the hearing reports, with a lawyer helping to fill important gaps and clarify possible inconsistencies. On this basis, the IND takes a draft decision in the form of a so-called intention. The third stage of the legal profession consists of drawing up an opinion, in which one responds with arguments to that intention. This phase is crucial because it replaces the objection phase that is applied in other administrative law. According to the coalition agreement, the government assumes that the abolition of the first two phases will relieve the judicial chain and benefit the IND capacity. This brief motivation requires an explanation. Is this meant on the defamation of the legal profession, or also on that of the IND? And what does the coalition base this assumption on? The lawyer will be able to contribute less to the required quality level of the decision on the application, and the commitment, which starts only at the time of the intention, cannot compensate for the previous stages, because the basis on which the decision was taken cannot be supplemented or corrected here. That stage will be over. Moreover, in the third stage, it is very likely that a lawyer will not have more time at his disposal. Otherwise, the eight-day procedure will no longer be reached. A relevant view requires an extensive discussion with the asylum seeker and the review of the reports of the hearing. The legal profession should therefore invest much more time in the third stage without any compensation. I wouldn't call that stool. It is not unthinkable that the IND itself will also spend much more time explaining to the asylum seeker, or that he assumes too much knowledge from the asylum seeker and therefore makes mistakes. The coalition agreement also clearly assumes that the abolition does not have any negative consequences for the follow-up process, and it does, not only to my expectations, but to those of many actors in the chain. The use of legal aid was rightly based on the understanding that it leads to a better quality of decision, which can reduce the number of appeal procedures. If that advantage fails, IND and the judiciary will lose much more capacity to appeal procedures, as well as legal aid and interpretation. An asylum procedure based on incomplete information will also be followed more often by a repeated application for asylum. Can the Secretary of State therefore clarify on the basis of which assumptions are based on more IND capacity available if legal aid in the asylum procedure is reduced? Is it not very important for him to carry out an x number of execution tests before introducing such a far-reaching measure? Is it true that this need for further research also lives within the IND chain itself? Is it true that no chain partner is in favour of this agreement in the coalition agreement? In the review of the new AA procedure carried out by the WODC in 2014 for transparency: I participated in that at the time....... many chain partners in interviews confirm that those first two phases of legal aid have actually made the procedure more careful. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that care is not affected when it is abolished? Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement also refers to European legislation. The cabinet wants to get along with that, but is that an end in itself? The fact is that the Dutch procedure is still faster than elsewhere. The sooner a decision is taken that stands in front of the courts, the less reception costs need to be incurred. Does the cabinet really want to give up this win-win situation for both the asylum seeker and the government's capacity in favour of European harmonisation? So far, the Netherlands has actively promoted its legal aid model within the EU as an integral part of the rapid asylum procedure. This has proved successful in Switzerland. Although this is not an EU Member State, it is still a country in Europe. There the model was taken over one-on-one. Legal aid was not self-evident to them, but its indispensableity was recognised and thus it was taken over. Great was the surprise when I told Swiss experts last year about the political decision to abolish this part in the Netherlands. They felt a little bought. The Dutch AA model is therefore a popular export product and many more Member States are now using legal assistance at an early stage to ensure a rapid and careful procedure. It is true that the directive does not require it, but the Commission's proposal for the procedural regulation gave it an impetus. However, the Netherlands did not support the Commission in this regard. It is rather easy to then hide behind EU legislation as if you were completely out of it. The fact remains that, even after the adoption of the procedural regulation, Member States will retain the possibility of using legal aid at an early stage of the asylum procedure. With such an ultra-short procedure as we have, there is every reason to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then again: why not first take an ex-ante execution test to prevent unnecessary damage and perhaps to prevent more loss of capacity and speed? The IND is already struggling with shortages. The waiting period for asylum applications to be dealt with has been 43 weeks and more than EUR 1 million in periodic penalty payments have already been paid over the past year for non-time decisions. Thousands of claims still have to be dealt with, so that amount is going to increase even further. If the Secretary of State wants to seriously shorten the lead times, isn't it playing with fire to implement a political agreement without delay while the chain partners point out the possible counter-effect? The Secretary of State has set up the Van Zwol Committee to make recommendations on the establishment and duration of residence procedures, including repeated procedures. Shouldn't we wait and see before we start cutting our legal aid strictly? The Committee could also carry out an investigation into the effects of these cabinet proposals within that broader framework of these lead times. It could therefore be passed on to the Van Zwol Committee. This at least gives us a well-founded and comprehensive approach, and the debate on asylum policy needs such a rational approach and less politically motivated action. So I'd like a reaction. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take such an integrated approach? Mr. Chairman. Then the Venezuelan refugees. Our groups, the groups of GroenLinks and the PvdA, are keen to draw attention to Venezuelan citizens seeking protection in the Kingdom. More than three million people have already left Venezuela because there is hardly any more food and medical care to be provided in that country. UNHCR therefore requests host countries not to send anyone back to that country at this time. A country like Colombia has already generously captured a third of them and a small number of those three million also reaches Aruba and Curaçao. The reports of human rights organisations are alarming about the treatment they receive there. Often there is no access to an asylum procedure, for example, because they did not report it immediately upon arrival. However, they are automatically taken into custody in inhumane circumstances. This also applies to vulnerable asylum seekers and also to minor asylum seekers, even if they are not accompanied. Does the Secretary of State know this and acknowledge this? The Committee against Torture also strongly condemns these practices in this month's Concluding Observations on the Netherlands. It's called "appaling living conditions," people are "subjected to ill treatment" and indicate that they don't get careful procedure. A strong condemnation, therefore, with a number of concrete recommendations aimed at substantially improving the situation. The Committee addresses itself to the state party and that means that, by addressing the Kingdom Government, the Netherlands is also being called upon to do so. It is clear that Curaçao and Aruba do not offer the necessary facilities and procedures. They probably lack the necessary capacity and knowledge. Of course, the largest country in the Kingdom is looked at, and it is striking that the Netherlands has so far only mediated on the return to Venezuela and made money available for even more detention capacity. That is not exactly the first thing my group is thinking about when it comes to those findings in those reports and the recommendations of the Committee against Torture; this is precisely about providing support for migrants, decent reception and a careful asylum procedure. Automatic detention of asylum seekers is contrary to Article 5 of the ECHR, let alone in these poor conditions. Why does the Netherlands not now provide more support for reception centres and for status determination? This could be achieved by making available a combination of budget and substantive knowledge. Does the Secretary of State recognise that Article 43 of the Statute provides a guarantee of respect for human rights treaties? Does he recognise that at least the ECHR, but also the anti-folter treaty, are at stake here? Does the government have a sense of urgency when it comes to this need overseas and the responsibility that the Netherlands has in this regard? Could the government respond to the CAT recommendation? Is it going to implement this in the short term? Could the Secretary of State also comment on the repeated recommendation of the CAT that the optional CAT protocol should also be valid on the territory of the whole Kingdom so that the conditions of overseas can be subject to independent supervision? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. My group is happy to endorse Mr Overbeek's call for a significant improvement in the situation of refugees on the Greek islands, and in the short term. The situation in which the refugees find themselves and in which they are completely trapped is, of course, the result of the EU-Turkey deal. Some of the refugees have come to the Court of Justice in vain, because the Court said that this is a matter for the Heads of Government and Turkey. This raises the question of the responsibility of the Netherlands, among others, for the fact that this declaration has also been co-signed. From this point of view, I await with great interest the reply of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. I have a clear contribution to make. I would like to focus on the path, the administrative and political process, around the Marrakesh Pact. The Marrakesh Pact is a swampy treaty. You're just stuck in it and it's hard to get out of the way for a balanced and just migration policy. Very briefly, the shadows of migration are not sufficiently highlighted, the Pact is excessively focused on underlining the rights of migrants, and the commitment to ensuring that states fulfil the obligation to actually take their nationals back is too weak. For the rest, I refer to the contribution of my SGP colleagues to the House of Representatives for a more detailed explanation of our political views on this pact. Done business doesn't happen again. The government has now endorsed the pact, although it seemed for a moment that the PVV had discovered another goat path. We will hear the reaction of the Secretary of State to this later. I do think that there are a number of lessons to be learned from the course that has been taken and that the House of First Instance should put its finger on it. It will be undisputed that international declarations and agreements may be subject to high requirements regarding the rights and obligations of participating countries. These rights and obligations must not be distorted, especially in sensitive areas such as asylum and migration, all the more so because international declarations clearly have a regulatory effect in international law. However, this noise has arisen in a generous and annoying way. Each country now seems to give its own interpretation to the Pact. I would also like to refer to Mrs Merkel's recent remarks. How does the Secretary of State appreciate these statements? In addition, this noise promotes the sale of yellow hoes. Mr. Chairman. The public and political debate on the Marrakesh Migration Pact has revealed a deeper debate on the passage of various types of international legal sources and international agreements, including treaties, pacts, customary law and decisions of international organisations, within our national legal order. This discussion needs to be settled, and that also requires some leadership from our cabinet. The passage of international agreements into our legal system is not a side issue, but an extremely important one. How is the cabinet going to handle this and also create clarity for the future? In addition, the exchange of information and coordination between the departments concerned and between the departments concerned and our Parliament have raised the necessary questions. For example, in the light of the initial involvement of Foreign Affairs Ministers and Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the ultimate involvement and responsibility of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, which we can now have in our midst. This has to be different and better. I ask the Secretary of State how he intends to promote this. And isn't it conceivable that a think tank might be able to help us with that? Would it not be wise, for example, to ask the Advisory Council on International Questions (AIV) for an opinion in which it indicates how these different sources of international law and international agreements have their effect in the national legal order, and how the coordination between relevant departments and parliament on the establishment, ratification and implementation of international sources of law and international agreements can best be developed? Is the Secretary of State willing to take this to the Cabinet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the debate and suspend the sitting for a few moments in anticipation of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Change.
