ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to ask everyone to sit down and not stand in trade-k, where the cabinet is sitting, because I understand that Mr Van Rooijen has something to say. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I don't usually say "something," but really something. Now that the motion has been rejected, the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u3	It wasn't a motion, it was a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u4	... ifwecanstartthedebate. We would ask the Minister if possible to provide additional information on the basis of yesterday's decision before the start of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u5	The Minister has no new information, he says outside the microphone. But you can also ask this on your own term, Mr. Van Rooijen. We will continue with the debate on the Spring Paper 2018 (34960, no. 1). I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The spring note is now really what you call "Hague theory." Outside The Hague people have to do with real life. Theory relative to practice, theoretical figures relative to hard reality. Unfortunately, this reality is that the purchasing power of the Dutch is still lagging behind, despite a growing economy and falling unemployment. Because you don't buy anything for that, if you have more trouble paying rent, gas and health care every month. How clear did all this become this week in the news that more and more Dutch people cannot go on holiday. A quarter can't go. No money while they're working. 2018, Netherlands. Working Dutch people who can't travel. While tax money from that same citizen is provided half the world with free money. Mr. Chairman. The Dutchman does not see anything in his wallet of economic growth. During the crisis, great sacrifices were made by the Dutch. There was a huge cut in taxes and taxes went through the roof. An employers' club charged a few months ago that the collective burden has been frighteningly incurred by up to €2,800 per working person per year. The collective burden has never been this high by 39% in 20 years. The Dutchman is thus constantly being fooled, also by this Rutte III cabinet. On Prinsjesdag Dutch people were told that on average they would improve half a percent. Excited NOS- and NRC-lakes went completely out of their mind with roaring articles and columns about all the money we Dutch people would get. A few months later, the Court of Auditors showed that this was all bullshit. In the real world, these The Hague theories turned out to be wrong. It was raining love again. We fell for it after all. Prime Minister Rutte now shouts that every Dutchman must feel better. Yeah, they feel something. Pretty much. They feel that the energy bill is blowing up. And they feel the rents are getting higher every year. And they feel that pensions are not indexed. And they feel the groceries are gonna be more expensive next year. And they feel that care is almost unpayable. While they have to work well beyond the age of 67 and their social security, their WW and their dismissal protection are being broken down. That's what they feel. Since the turn of the century, wages have barely risen in our beautiful country. The real disposable income of working Netherlands has stopped for 40 years. Much more than being compensated for inflation is not in it. That is the real world and those are the facts; that is not the theory of The Hague. The only ones that benefit are large companies with shady fiscal structures and, of course, the government, with increasing public spending every year. And our billions disappear like snow before the sun. Where are they going? These billions go to Brussels, to Africa and to immigration and subsidies, all of which we in the Netherlands are not waiting for at all. The cabinet is therefore not there for the ordinary Dutchman but for the multinationals, for Brussels, for Africa and for the sharing of fat paid jobs. And yell, "You're gonna feel it." Prime Minister Rutte even yelled, "Buy that car." Buy a car? Who's gonna do that? Those people who can't even afford a vacation? It's crazy to freak out. Totally alien. For this year we see the same game. A small increase in purchasing power of 0.6% is predicted. That's a tenner a month, $10. Is that what we're supposed to buy that car from? Even that ten is not certain, because last year's predictions did not come true either. That was due to higher inflation. The same can happen now: inflation was estimated at 1.3% a few months ago and has now been adjusted to 1.5% for 2018. The chance that people will not gain anything in purchasing power this year is therefore very great. That is so unfair. For two years in a row, Dutch people have been paying more taxes than is necessary. There's another surplus. The PVV wants us finally to reduce the burden. That's what I'm telling this minister. We can take a first step here today. We can decide to give back EUR 2 billion in the form of lower rents; EUR 2 billion, if there is the will in this room today. I expect a commitment from the Minister on this. If not, in my second term, I will ask the Chamber for a ruling. Security is very important to the PVV. The police are an important link in this. We have called for more money for the police before. That is what we want to underline today. We want 43 million more to go to the national police in addition to the 154 million promised. To cover this, we use the 43 million extra allocated to the alien chain; 43 million extra for our national police. Mr. Chairman. The euro was and is a huge mistake. Everyone knows this with a little common sense, especially the people who have read our report on the Netherlands and the euro. It contains a very clear analysis, which puts the finger on the sore spot. For those who do not want to believe the PVV, the IMF economist, Mr Mody, was at least as clear last week. In short: the euro has not brought us peace, there is no growth in the economy, and the currency was not necessary to bring about the internal market. Nor, as we all know, does the currency prevent a crisis. And if there is a crisis, neither does the euro soften it. We've been lied to. Greece received 296 billion; 296 billion. Everyone knows, even in this Chamber, that Greece will never repay it and it cannot. That is why there is a constant exchange of interest and maturity, even last week. The duration was already ridiculous, namely 32.5 years, but Brussels is happy to add another 10 years. At least as bad or worse: the Netherlands contributed 21.3 billion euros to this 296 billion, tax money from the Dutch for the Greeks. And so are those Dutch who can't afford a holiday to Greece. By the way, that 21.3 billion is equivalent to 14 years of dividend tax. So the Netherlands owes billions to Greece. Our question is: when will we get it back? A question to the Minister. One of his party mates and predecessors once promised the Netherlands that every penny, every euro would come back. Not only that, we also got interest. So it made us all better. What does this minister say? We've been a few years. Are we really gonna get that money back? Does he believe that? I'd like a clear answer. This is also interesting for ordinary Dutch people who still have debts to repay, for example to the Tax Administration. There's a lot of uncertainty about paying back. It is, of course, striking that Greece even gets a bonus in the deal of two weeks ago. That 15 billion bonus is intended, among other things, to pay the future repayments. To be able to pay redemptions! Oh, that's good. We give them extra money so they can pay old loans. I would like to hear from this Minister that he will never, ever allow anything to disappear from the billions we need to get back. The money has to be returned now and not only in 2066, as is now agreed. In 2066 this minister is 91 years old, living and well-being. 91! It's way too late when the money comes back, isn't it? Then what are we supposed to pay for your nursing home? Mr. Chairman. I would like to give this Minister a great deal of care. So that money has to be returned now and not just then. For this reason, the PVV will table a motion in the second term. Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution with the difference between, on the one hand, The Hague figures, the theory of this house, so to speak, and, on the other hand, the reality, the real life outside. I would ask the Minister to introduce himself, a lorry driver in Almelo who was fired five years ago, among other things, by the banking crisis. Meanwhile, there's a Pole in his truck. He just got new neighbors; they're foreigners, they don't speak Dutch, they're status holders, and they've only been in the Netherlands for seven months. They already have a house with decor. His daughter doesn't have that; she still lives with him in the attic and doesn't dare to go out in the evening. With his benefit, he can do less and less. Prices are rising and he can't go to Greece, no. Dear Minister, let's say this man in Almelo is watching today and he's reading the spring note with all the excited lyrics that things are going so well in this country. This man just had to tell his family that a vacation isn't in this year. Tell me, Minister, if this man listens to us, what do you think he'll think of how things are in the Netherlands? What do you think about the distribution of the money? Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how he feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is in good shape again. After a years of crisis that has hit many Dutch people deep in the wallet, all signals are on green again. There is economic growth again and fewer and fewer people are unemployed. World trade is attracting and exports are increasing. Fortunately, this cabinet is also taking good steps by reducing income tax and investing in safety, education and care for the elderly. Despite the good news, the pluses and the green numbers, there are uncertainties. It remains true that as many people as possible will have to really notice that things are getting better in the near future. In that light, it is also nice that De Nederlandsche Bank and the Central Planning Bureau expect wages to increase: 2.1% in this year, 2.6% in 2019 and 3.1% in 2020. In 2019 there will also be a reduction in income tax, which will make even more people feel better. The forecast of economic growth for 2018 is revised upwards in this Spring Note, from 3.1% to 3.2% of gross domestic product. The growing economy also has an impact on unemployment. It's falling further down to 3.9% this year. This growth has been widely supported: both household consumption and export consumption contribute strongly to this. De Nederlandsche Bank recently indicated that it would reduce the growth forecast for 2018 from 3.1% to 2.5%. The CPB estimates that it would be 2.9%. How do they relate to each other and how does this affect the financial figures in the Spring Note? Exports benefit from a sharp increase in world trade. At present, however, there are still a lot of uncertainties. For example, the forthcoming Brexit, the protectionist measures of Donald Trump and the developments in Italy entail financial risks. In the blackest scenario, the protectionist measures for the Netherlands could generate a lower growth rate of an average of 0.5 percentage points by 2020. The Dutch Bank is less gloomy about Italy. I wonder if the Minister shares that optimism. It is also a good thing that in this Spring paper the cabinet anticipates the Brexit by extra money for customs and for the Dutch Food and War Authority. Mr. Chairman. The additional post is the parking space at the Ministry of Finance where money is reserved for certain expenses in accordance with the government agreement. The VVD is curious as to the extent to which funds in this supplementary item are still being paid out to the relevant ministries. There's 700 million left on the shelf. It seems to me that we need to make progress in implementing the coalition agreement. Of course, spending these resources is not an end in itself, but it is important and it is an additional budget, such as security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u9	I see Mrs Leijten at the interrupting microphone, but I want to see if Mrs De Vries can finish her first block first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u10	I'm not at the end of my line yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u11	I'm suggesting it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u12	Good. The VVD wants to know why these funds have not yet been used. In fact, an amount of more than EUR 200 million has been earmarked for the Tax Administration, from this coalition agreement. Why hasn't that been deployed yet? After all, the problems at the Tax Office are quite serious. Extra money is now being allocated to the Dutch Food and War Authority for the Brexit, but there is still additional money on the additional item. How is this compatible? There are also financial deficits with the IT of the Dutch Food and Waring Authority. It's not supposed to fill that gap with the extra resources, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mrs Leijten, I did not agree on the number of interruptions, but I would suggest that we ask four questions in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u14	With four coalition parties, I think that is far too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u15	It's possible. Go ahead. Ask your question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u16	Madam President, I really do not think this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u17	I would say: ask your question and then we can see if that is enough or not. My proposal is to do it this way. Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u18	The government said we're gonna move a billion dollars into the cash drawer. We do that for the Groningen gas, for the Brexit and some other small points. It is, of course, good that this is looked at, but it is so striking that, for example, there is a structural under-exhaustment in health care. In recent years there has been structural money left, and structuralally it goes to other posts in another year. Well, we read in the newspaper yesterday that the socio-economic health differences are how old you are and how you are getting healthy old.................................................................................................................................................. The higher your income, the older you get. In recent years, women with the lowest income have even died a year and a half earlier. Does the VVD think we should take precautions for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u19	Let me start by saying that if there is money in the budget, that does not mean that it has to be put on. You have to look carefully at how you're going to spend that, but this cabinet also focuses on prevention, for example. We have also seen, for example, that we invest extra in general practitioners in the disadvantaged areas. I think we need to solve this problem along this road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. Investing in general practitioners in disadvantaged neighbourhoods and saying that this solves the socio-economic health differences, I find that a little too lean. I am more concerned with the principle. We see the Brexit coming. That's bad for our business, so go on, the wallet's opening. We've seen a big difference for decades, from ten years...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u21	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u22	...in how old people become on low or high incomes. And we're not gonna do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u23	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u24	Would the VVD always be prepared to carry out a health test in all the policies proposed: does this proposal increase or reduce the socio-economic health disparities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u25	I think that, in the spring note, we are mainly talking about the problems that we are going to have to solve now, in 2018. I think this is a typical contradiction: saying that we want to anticipate, for example, the Brexit, that we should invest in it now, and that people would not benefit from it. I think that this can affect a lot of jobs in the Netherlands, also a lot of jobs for people with a lower income, which you have just talked about. I believe that this is precisely why we need to invest well in such matters, so that those kinds of jobs can be preserved for the Netherlands, and respond to them in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u27	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about the Food and War Authority. That also brings me to the Ministry of Agriculture. The VVD wants a statement and justification of the level of the costs of setting up the new ministry. This costs as much as 200 million euros in five years. Why is this amount so high? And what are the structural costs? The Spring paper contains a structural windfall of EUR 353 million for medicines and an estimate of EUR 100 million. In line with the government agreement, EUR 467 million of structural savings are also needed on medicines. In total, it is almost EUR 1 billion. According to the Minister, it is clear from the answers to the written questions that this must be seen separately. But how is this possible, because it is the same post? And can the Minister guarantee that this austerity mission and what is now being entered in the spring note will not ensure that patients will no longer have access to the necessary medicines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Vries spoke just now about the costs of setting up the Ministry of Agriculture. I was also wondering what she thinks of the principle of why we're doing that again. About seven, eight years ago, we came to the conclusion that it could be merged with Economic Affairs. That cost tens of millions of euros; that was a major operation. Then the country's back on its feet, and what do we do? Then we'll create an extra ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u29	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u30	My question is: what do you think, Mrs De Vries, of the principle that we are now going to waste another EUR 200 million to redesign it? Where does this necessity come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u32	We agreed in the government agreement that there should be a separate Ministry of Agriculture. I would particularly like to ask whether this is and can be cost-effective and from which these costs have been built up. But we just made that deal in the coalition agreement, and that's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u33	But, Mr President, when we do things in this country, people trust that we here in Parliament make sensible decisions. So I'm just gonna ask you this: why are we gonna tear it apart again? I know it's in the coalition agreement, but that's gonna kill any discussion. A few years ago, we spent tens of millions in taxpayers' money to put it together, and now we're spending 200 million euros to pull it together, because we need another place for ministers. Where did that come from? You say cost-effective. But the important thing is that you decide to do something first. I am concerned with the principle: why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u34	We agreed to this in the coalition agreement, which is why we are doing so. It is an important economic sector, let me be clear about that. Agriculture generates a lot of exports and a lot of jobs. So that's important, too. But if you take that step, we think you should have a good justification for the costs, and then you should keep them as limited as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u36	The new budgetary rules removed the cyclical part of the WW and the assistance from the expenditure framework, as recommended by the Study Group on Budgetary Space. But the question that arises from us is why the framework is now being changed in this Spring paper. For we read in the Spring Paper that it is being revised upwards, but what happens if, for example, the estimates are bad again and so less money is needed? The VVD welcomes the decision to eventually turn the gas in Groningen back to zero and to pick up the reinforcement faster. Safety comes first. That is true, of course, but that does not mean that we should not have a view of the full financial consequences and how we deal with them. Some of these costs are outside the expenditure frameworks and some of them within them, but if they are outside, of course they are burdening public debt. A lot has happened in the last few days. The Minister sent a letter about this early this morning. I have a number of questions to clarify. The table lists a number of non-tax means and we are curious about the breakdown of these means of taxation. Is it true that all of this concerns the income framework? Finally, Mr President. The letter also states that, occasionally, 500 million must be allocated to the economy and the viability of Groningen. It is not clear to us when we will get that back in the figures and how it should be seen in relation to this Spring note. I think it is an occasional amount that comes back to the budget, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u37	I fear that it is the expenditure framework and that it must be found elsewhere, but let the Minister answer that. I do not want to ask Mrs De Vries to judge the deal, because I do know how the VVD views it, but I do know about the information that the Chamber has obtained over the last week and a half about the deal with Shell and Exxon. How does Mrs De Vries look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u38	I think that the most important thing is that security has been chosen and that, even after this spring note has been drawn up, a number of good steps have been taken as far as we are concerned. I understand there's been some kind of messy image. The letter sent this morning gives an overview of what the financial insights are at the moment, and I assume that we will have the overall insight in the 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u39	I am referring, for example, to the 0.5 billion, which turned out to be 135 million, the deal of nearly 3 billion to 2022, which we found out yesterday and not last Monday, and to long-term financing. I know the VVD very well, so does Mrs De Vries. He always says: when you make an appointment, you also need to know how to pay it in the next few years. Well, that hasn't been settled either. I am therefore curious to see how she, as a parliamentarians, looks at this deal and the information we have as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u40	We're discussing the spring note today. There are a number of things about Groningen. It has been announced that the overall overview will be included in the 2019 budget. Then we are going to look at this for a multiannual period. I also think that the PvdA shop a bit selectively here and there in the agreements that have been made. It is always forgotten to mention that there has also been a buy-back of the 70 billion that has now remained in the ground. That story, that the package consists of several pieces, sometimes forgets to tell the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you. I am now going to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u42	Thank you, Mr President. GroenLinks makes different choices than the cabinet, with a different financial framework in the relationship between charges and expenses. We presented this in the autumn, together with the SP and the PvdA, under the name 'People over multinationals'. It is important that we choose a different relationship between reducing the burden on large companies and spending on people who run our society, the teachers, the police, the people in care and the bus drivers. They deserve appreciation, both in terms of salary and in terms of reducing the workload. Do you choose people or do you choose large companies? That is ultimately the political question, in which we make a different choice than the cabinet. This choice has actually become even more acute over the past year. Strikes and actions in health care, education and public transport show that many people have the water at their fingertips. Against this background, I would like to talk today about the financial consequences of the gas decision and yet again the dividend tax. Here again and again we are talking about people or multinationals. At the end of my speech I will ask some questions about the Compatibility Act. The fact that gas extraction is accelerating down is a good thing, but the question is what the financial consequences are and who pays the bill. I have already said in the General Financial Reviews that, as far as I am concerned, the budgetary rules are not right. I do not think that decisions to reduce extraction under the expenditure framework were wise. We've seen that now. In the spring note we see that the lower gas benefits and the reinforcement are absorbed by windfalls and under-exhaustment, at least partly. It is not clear what this means for social security expenditure or longer-term care. The windfalls at the Anw and the medicine prices ultimately mean that there is less room for other expenses that we might have wanted to do, for example higher salaries for teachers or care staff. Why do we only get a look at the structural consequences and structural coverage in the Millions' Note? A structural decision has now been taken. In the spring paper, we must now look at the structural financial implications. But this was for the advice of the Mining Council and for the agreement on basics between the Ministry of EZK, Shell and Exxon Mobil that we got. Talk about multinationals. These decisions and this agreement have major financial implications. My group has the question of whether the Minister of Finance, in his role as guardian of the treasury, has interfered with the agreements made, and more than just in the cabinet. And why didn't the Minister of Finance inform us directly about the financial consequences and we had to wait for a letter? First we got one from EZK, which was only partial, and only this morning one from the Ministry of Finance. We received that letter yesterday from EZK and now that letter from Finance and actually that is still a kind of summary of the temporary series in the Spring Note. Now we have new agreements with new series and new budgetary implications. The only thing we can say is that it seems that the financial impact on the government is a lot greater than we saw in the figures in the spring note. What does that actually mean for the longer term? What does that mean for cover? What I also found striking was that in the letter from EZK we received a separate series about the Vpb revenue. This is repeated in the Minister's letter. Why is that even done? The VPB revenues, I think, are endogenous. Mr Nijboer has pointed this out before. The cost is therefore just EUR 3 billion gross. I believe that the budgetary rules will work in such a way that we will have to cover 3 billion and we will see what Vpb revenues will come up with later. That is a bit the same as the Minister would have to buy pencils for all government officials and pay a bill for them. If the profits of the pencil factory go up and the Vpb flows in, we'll see about that later. How do these budgetary rules work? Or is this a direct tax agreement that we do not yet know about and with direct tax consequences? I'd like some clarification. Why are we asking for this? Because the agreements that have now been made with regard to Groningen affect not only the longer term but also the current financial year. That is why we want more information on the current financial year. That's what we're about as a room. This has to do with the Compatibility Act and the Court's budget law. The question I have is whether we're not going along the edges of the Compliance Act. Or are we even gonna get over it? How does the Minister view that? When do we as a Chamber still have the opportunity to influence, for example on the deal made with Exxon Mobil and Shell? Or is that deal legally binding and has the House's budget law been undermined? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This was about Shell, among other things. Speaking of Shell, I'm coming to the dividend tax. I have been asking for it for a long time, since the autumn, but with question 144 in the written replies to the spring note, the cabinet itself finally concludes.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. It has taken a while, but now the cabinet also recognises that most of the money, the abolition of the dividend tax, is simply wasted money. If that 1.4 or 1.6 billion went to foreign shareholders, the VVD might still be able to say that it is wise policy, because then there could be effects on the capital market and on business. But this measure simply means that we still do not give out at least one billion dollars annually to foreign tax authorities, to French, German and American treasuries. In reply to question 146 an attempt is made to correct the lack of efficiency. For example, it is said that there are at least lower administrative burdens for all shareholders. Almost a billion dollars to save some paperwork doesn't seem very effective to me. Another line of reference that is being tried on Question 146 is to start with the overall package of measures that we are talking about again, and on other tax measures that are good for combating tax avoidance. I understand that this argument is being used by the coalition to explain why this measure is in the coalition agreement. Of course, it can never be an argument for the Minister of Finance to explain why this particular measure is effective or not. If you have a package of 99 effective measures and 1 ineffective measure, the one measure remains ineffective. Today, finance is so strict that for more than 700 million in the supplementary post there is a waiting for good support from other departments. Each euro must be reversed three times before it is issued. When it comes to efficiency and effectiveness, I agree with that. I think we should be careful with taxpayers' money. I hope, however, that this strict attitude will be applied consistently. Why are we here today debating 1% margins at the end of the year, spending plans for the means of government agreement and other efficiency issues if the Minister of Finance does not look at efficiency in the really large money? That is why I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance how he intends to assess the effectiveness of this bill. I would prefer to see the abolition of the dividend tax become a separate legislative proposal, but that is not my concern. That's up to the cabinet. If this comes into a package of measures, I hope that we will apply Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act separately to the abolition of dividend taxation. I would like a commitment from the Minister. So I want a separate efficiency and effectiveness analysis according to Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act on the abolition of dividend taxation in this bill. What else would the Compatibility Act and this article be worth? Mr. Chairman. I have previously asked questions in the written set about Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. In reply, the Minister states that the way in which departments are to explain is free of form, that the Chamber must be informed by the responsible department of the trade and that it is up to the Chamber to determine to what extent this explanation has been sufficient. I have already drawn attention to this, together with my colleague, Mr Sneller, in my opinion, at the AO Budgeting and accountability. As far as I am concerned, this is a little too limited and the Minister of Finance may be a little more proactive. For example, in all the proposals contained in the Spring Note and in the allocation of government appropriations added to budgets, I assume that the requirements of Article 3.1 have also been taken into account. Were they followed? How will the Chamber be informed about this? What is the role of the Minister of Finance in this? All proposals come through the Minister of Finance and past the department. Surely the Department of Finance should know how other departments report on objectives, effectiveness and efficiency? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The historian Wesseling once wrote about the Dutch parliament in the middle of the nineteenth century, which did so at the time for which it was originally set up, namely making it difficult for governments to spend money and not encouraging them to do so, as it does now. Parliament in the role of Treasurer. Discussing the spring note is a good time to see how we do it. The government's agenda is ambitious: 1.5 billion additional investments in Defence; 2.1 billion additional investments in nursing care, aimed in particular at attracting more staff in this sector; nearly 1.6 billion more to education, and 1.4 billion more structuralally to public administration, making municipalities more able to cope with the decentralised task, for example. But also tax relief: more than 3.3 billion by lowering the VPB rate and 4.3 billion by structural tax reduction for the inhabitants of this country. It is important in such a comprehensive investment agenda and this burden relief package that the funds are well spent. That is why the CDA is happy with the programme Insight in quality. We all benefit from a better understanding of the efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditure. Today's spring note is actually the first interim report of this cabinet. The CDA Group believes that a sensible budgetary policy is the foundation for meeting the many wishes that the inhabitants of this country have. That is why we would like to see an EMU debt that can absorb shocks. The current EMU debt is still higher than that of the 2008 economic crisis and that makes it vulnerable to cope with new economic shocks. Shocks that may have an economic background, but can also be influenced by a restless international world. Unrest, for example, from the current President of the US, the Brexit, the continuing conflict in Syria and the middle-class discontent in many European countries. These could be triggers for new economic shocks. The ability to cope with economic shocks therefore also requires sober financial management. Are sausage scenarios designed at the Ministry to see what possible shocks can do to our economy and, if so, does this give the Minister insight into the desired size of the EMU debt and how high it is about? Mr. Chairman. The national budget has three components: the narrow national budget, the partial ceiling on social security and the partial ceiling on health care. In the next part, I would like to deal with some of the outstanding points from these sub-ceilings. First of all, the gas file. We are pleased that the cabinet takes responsibility for finding a solution for the Groningers, but the cabinet chooses to present the solution for 2018 to the Spring Paper and the structural solution at Prinsjesdag. Our question is, why do you do that? Is this a result of the obligations of the Compatibility Act or simply because things still have to be worked out? Is it not therefore wise to provide some sort of guidebook of when the information can become available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u45	I'd like you to finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u46	This was the part about the gas dossier and my next point is about education, while I think Mrs Van Leijten has a question about the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u47	How do you know that? And her name is Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u48	I have another question about the Groningen gas decision. Mr Slootweg is right to be critical of this. I will also say a few words about it, and we would rather have all the information before we started this debate. But does Mr Slootweg also think that the Chamber should have nothing to say about it and that it is not a closed deal with two oil giants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u49	I think there is a lot of direction in this question. I am really pleased with the solution that has been found for the Groningen people and that the government simply dares to draw its wallet to that end. I am also pleased that people are trying to do this in the most justified way possible by not pushing everything backwards or by saying that this generation must solve it. It is a good thing that we are doing this along the framework of gas benefits now and the reinforcement operation that you can continue to benefit from in order to keep that out of the box. I still have questions about the information, such as when you could foresee what things and why this choice was made. That is why I asked these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u50	I share that it is a good thing that Groningen is finally offered safety. I also share that it's a good thing that you can put that out of context. We both have questions about the trial. You have also put them and we will listen to the answers very carefully. What I asked you was whether the Chamber should still have control when we get that overview. Because I am getting the feeling that we are actually in a trap of agreements, including financial agreements, with two oil giants, Shell and Exxon, which we can't get rid of. Whether we know everything why does the government do this and this way, you are actually asking us to do so, but we still need to be able to go about it. Does the CDA group share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u51	When it comes to the assessment, I think it is logical that in this context the Minister of EZK is trying to make these agreements. This too is of course new for the cabinet. We didn't have that in the coalition agreement. So the shocks that have come and are being picked up have their effect. I understand, however, that the balance will then be made to reach a negotiating position with two partners with whom you have also increased in the past. So in that sense, I do not entirely think that the Court is excluded from its assessment. But I would like to know when people have been able to know things in order to be able to carry us with us and with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u52	I thought Mr Slootweg asked very good questions about future coverage, so I will do so later. I have a question about the deal. Yesterday it was announced that there was 3 billion in it. Did Mr Slootweg know that? That's my first question. And the second question is, how does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u53	When it comes to the exact figures on the deal, I haven't had any prior knowledge of that. However, as far as the implications are concerned, I would like to say to Mr Nijboer that I would like to consider these implications as a whole. I understand I'm getting it all on Prince's Day. But I would like to know what information I can receive until then, so that I can make the right judgment until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u54	I'm trying to listen very carefully. In fact, Mr Slootweg says that I do not have enough information to give a balanced opinion on this matter. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u55	No. I don't think I know if I have a complete picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u56	Isn't that the same as: I don't have enough information to pass judgment now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u57	No, it could be that I already have all the information and I can't see until Princess Day that that's all the information now. Or there's gonna be business. As soon as I have all the data, I think I can also make that overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u58	The trouble is that tomorrow we will have the final debate on the agreement. I am very opposed to that, because I do not think we have that information as a Chamber. That's what the coalition pushed through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u59	You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u60	Yes, but if Mr Slootweg now says: I can't actually give a judgment until Princess Day, when we have that final debate tomorrow, it's difficult, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u61	I think Mr Nijboer is making a somewhat greater distinction than there is in essence. I think it is about assessing the gas deal tomorrow, but when it comes to the multiannual implication, we have it on Prince's Day, and I think we need to talk about it at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u62	Another bit more fundamental, and then it's about the position of the Chamber, the Compliance Act and budget law. I assume that Mr Slootweg has also seen and learned that the deal between EZK, NAM, ExxonMobil and Shell is legally binding. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u63	I wouldn't really know how you could do that in a different way either. In this assessment of the legal relationship, I think it is quite logical for the cabinet there to consult with Shell and Exxon in the first instance. Finally, as a Chamber, we are going to talk about this. So yes, in that sense the opposition will probably have to draw the consequences if we want to make a different assessment. So in that sense, I do not think that is very different from other considerations we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u64	I admit the file is complex. And I also admit that negotiations must be conducted with the companies involved. But this is quite fundamental, because Mr Slootweg keeps saying: I am postponing my judgment, because I do not have the complete record and all the information yet. But the question is, what does your judgment matter if you have nothing more to say about it? Then it's about the position of the Chamber. I don't think your judgment matters anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u65	I do not share that view with Mr Snels. What if I wanted something else? That will, of course, have far-reaching implications. I must therefore include these implications. In that sense, it is not much different than making a lot of agreements with each other. So I do not see that there is a greater fundamental difference with the other agreements that are being made. I have the feeling that Mr Snels is trying to enlarge it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u66	I don't think I do. Is Mr Slootweg, like myself, curious about the implications and the relationship with the Compliance Act and budget law? Wouldn't he, like me, want clarification on that? Actually, we should've had that before that deal was closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u67	Mr Snels asks two questions. In response to the first part, I have just asked how this relates to each other. The second part is about "before." I think at that point you're going to ask the Cabinet to submit some sort of agreement in advance. Then you'd have to work with parties to make those appointments and get things done. Personally, I don't know if if you're gonna do that, you're gonna bring in the best for the Dutch taxpayer. I think you're gonna get a game where the minister's gonna say "I want to get as much space as possible" and the other guy's gonna know what framework there is. I do not quite know whether the way in which Mr Snels proposes it will ultimately be the most efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u68	In fact, I hear Mr Slootweg say: on this point, the Court's budget law is limited to signing on the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u69	No, I didn't say that. I tried to explain a few times that it would have consequences if you didn't sign on the cross and that you would have to stand up and bear those consequences. I think we should wait for the debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u70	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u71	...where the Minister of EZK gets the room to explain why he did it. At the moment I have no reason to suspect that he has put the interests of the inhabitants of the Netherlands first. I'd like to make that clear. I've come to the point of education. We see that the estimates in the Ministry of Education in recent years have always been exceeded. We're still puzzled at the cause of under-assessing the number of followers of higher and scientific education. We ask the Minister about how, for example, foreign students will receive costs. We did not get a satisfactory explanation of this in the answer to the factual questions. Let me give you an example: what does it mean for the costs of scientific and higher education when there are 50% more students coming from the EEA area, the European Economic Area? What implications does that have? In general, we note that small differences in estimates have a significant impact on the budget of OCW. Does the Minister have any ideas as to how more rest can be achieved on this budget, so that small derogations do not have such great financial consequences? Then I come to the point of Justice and the partial ceiling of the state budget in a narrow sense. Legal aid was faced with under-exhaustment in 2017. In 2018, there was also a windfall in legal aid. There is a need for clarity in order to achieve a different remuneration structure. Is the under-exhaustment of legal aid structural or is it occasional? How does this under-utilisation relate to the agreement in the government agreement that changes in the system of subsidised legal aid can be made within the existing budgetary framework? Then I come to the partial ceiling on social security and to the child schemes. Every time the economy attracts, we are faced with setbacks in the area of childcare payments. This may seem logical because more couples are becoming active in the labour market together, but the question that our group is concerned with is whether there are actually the wrong incentives in our system to encourage the least-earning partner to work more hours? What would it take to ensure the right incentives? Then the partial ceiling care, the Hugo Breast standard. In addition to geopolitical shocks, which can have an impact on the government budget, there are also national developments that can have an impact on the budget. As an example, I would like to mention the progress of the quality impulse of 2.1 billion for nursing care. The application of the Hugo Breast standard resulted, according to an autonomous process, in the amount of 2.1 billion. That autonomous process occurred without the Court being able to make its own assessment framework. My question is whether there are systems for more budgets that have some kind of force of law and can therefore have a major impact on the budget, without any real intervention from the Chamber. In my last part I would like to dwell on two themes a little bit longer. The first is the housing market. There's a lot of tension on the housing market. For the CDA, it is a great pain that people with MBO training, professionals in our eyes, are hardly able to obtain a rental or purchase house. For the rent one often earns just too much to qualify for a social rental house and rightly so, but a more expensive rental house is often not available. Because these are sometimes couples who work both works, but one person, for example, does not have a fixed contract, is not eligible for a mortgage either. This image can be seen not only in Amsterdam and Utrecht, but also in small municipalities around it. This also means, for example, that people who work in health care or in education can hardly settle in the city anymore. There is a need to build, but also then the question is whether the builder focuses on those homes that are attractive to these professionals. In addition, the CDA is deeply concerned about the investment capacity of housing corporations. We receive a letter that the tax reductions for the landlord tax, intended to address urgent societal challenges, are much earlier than expected. In the meantime, the scheme has been closed, but the closure of the fishing scheme means that housing corporations in shrinking areas behind the grid will not be able to make investments to make these regions more attractive. Does the Minister of Finance see a role for himself to think about, so that young people with MBO training can find a place in the housing market? Can he, for example, play an encouraging role in banks, so that they develop financial products that allow this group to benefit from a buying house? Is there any possibility that housing corporations together could, for example, allow demolition in shrinking areas, which would also allow for investment there? Then debt financing and green bonds. The CDA Group sees that the market for debt paper is developing. More and more governments are issuing green bonds, green bonds. In 2016, Poland was the country with the European first, but recently France, with 7 billion euros respectively, and Belgium, with 4.5 billion euros, have issued green bonds. Belgium has indicated that it wants to do this more often. It is also noteworthy that all these issues were subject to an over-subscription. Green bonds are not more expensive for the State in terms of pricing, it seems, to spend. The large demand of pension funds, for example, may even make them more advantageous in terms of interest costs. Perhaps in abundance a description of green bonds: you issue debt papers on which you pay a fixed amount of interest. The funds raised are put into a fund to make climate investments. The CDA Group is thinking of making houses more sustainable. Only those projects that have a positive impact on the climate are financed. The project must therefore comply with internationally established green union principles. The lender is not only assured of a good financial return, but is also assured that it contributes to improving the climate. How does the Minister view the issue of green bonds that comply with the green bond principles? Is there enough projects in our country to help finance them with a positive impact on the climate as a government? And are projects aimed at making homes sustainable covered by these principles, in particular to make homes no longer dependent on gas, but on renewable energy? Finally, I have a somewhat more technical question. It's about the in=terminal. The assignment is the counterpart of the end-of-year margin and is filled with the under-exhaustment that occurs during the year. Partly filling in the deadline for the Spring Note reduces the risk of exceeding the ceiling. In recent years, only sporadically, the spring note has filled the in=terminal. This year, the cabinet has chosen to do this for 225 million. In the coming years, will the Minister always have the intention of filling in the deadline with the Spring Note? Is the assignment mainly completed by incidental, or by structural under-exhaustment or windfalls? And can the Minister indicate with which budget lines have been filled in this year's deadline? Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives is the place to address social needs. And our parliament is also the place to look critically at what the cabinet spends. Professor Wesseling was perhaps a bit too one-dimensional by reducing the role of parliament to make it as difficult as possible for the government to spend money. We see that role a little more broadly. But if we are to be able to address social needs not only in the long term, but also in order to respond to them, Parliament must also play its critical role alongside the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u72	We are pleased that the CDA is now also concerned about the height of the rents. You will be well served, because the PVV will present a motion today to reduce those rents; so you can join immediately. But I wanted to ask you about what you said earlier in your speech. You mentioned the growing unrest among the population in many European countries. That's kind of interesting, because there's this unrest. But do you have any explanation for the growth of this unrest?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u73	In my view, many elements play a role in this. One of the elements, in my view, is that we are coming from a period of economic crisis, in which governments have also had to make adjustments to the level of provision. That hurts. That hurts many sections of the population, and that mostly also hurts if you want to have a sort of economy where there is also room for just being able to participate in the lowest social class. That's often taken care of by the middle class. So I think the fact that more sacrifices have been made is part of it. I think there's also a cultural component in it. For a long time, we've had the idea that our economy was only growing. Then I think it's hard to accept at some point that things don't grow so much. So I think that could be two elements. And it will undoubtedly also be the case that politics may have had a tendency here and there to promise things that it has not been able to deliver. Perhaps Mr Mulder is pointing that out. That also means that you have to be extremely reluctant about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u74	It is strange, because even in the late 1990s, when there was no crisis at all, there was unrest: the famous peat fire. So it can't just be an economic crisis or not. It is because of the distribution of money and of course it is also because of the total failure of the euro and of mass immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u75	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u76	You're looking at the economy now. It would be interesting if the CDA were gradually to ask itself whether mass immigration, the euro and the perseverance of a state in Brussels are also involved. The ordinary Dutchman and the ordinary European have nothing to do with that, because Europe is made up of simply independent countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u78	I don't think there's gonna be a good answer until the CDA does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u79	Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u80	What is the right answer, I think, will ultimately have to be judged by our people themselves. I think Mr Buma, for example, is addressing a lot of things in his Schoo reading, in a slightly different tone from Mr Mulder. I would not like to use the word'mass immigration', because I believe that even at earlier times a larger group came to the Netherlands. That really is not something that has only played since the beginning of this millennium. That is a tendency that you have been seeing for a long time, also because we have greater prosperity. But I think that certainly creates some sort of displacement among the population of the Netherlands. In that sense, with a slightly different wording, I can think along with a part of Mr Mulder's analysis. I am a little less critical of the euro, also because many middle-class groups will experience that they have the same means of payment when one goes from one country to another, and then I wonder if the euro is the shibbolet, to put it in my terms, which makes one very hopeful. So I am less sceptical about that part than Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u81	Just checking to see if I heard correctly: there is mass immigration, which has been going on for a long time and people are coming here because we are more prosperous. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u82	There are several reasons why people are coming here, but it is of course quite clear that we have a wealth that is not there in other parts of the world and that we have also had a job question that had to be filled in. At least in the 1970s, we had a job question in certain sectors that the Netherlands could not solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u83	Finally, Mr Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u84	That question stopped somewhere in the early seventies and at that time there were 21,000 Moroccans and 22,000 Turks in the Netherlands. Then we stopped asking people to come here. Of both population groups, there are now 400,000, that is, 800,000 in total. Then how come they came here when we didn't ask them to come here anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u85	There are many elements to the question of employment. Even now, people are still being asked for in some sectors because our people seem to be unable to fill in these places. So in that sense, that really is a longer process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u87	It's raining good economic figures. The economy is still growing fast. House prices are rising. Unemployment is low. There is no less than 3.8 billion left in the budget. Nevertheless, the wage trends and purchasing power of ordinary people are disappointing compared to the estimate. Purchasing power is increasing by 0.6% and is therefore once again lagging far behind the growth of the economy. In the previous debate, I asked the Minister whether we could not ensure that purchasing power grew as fast as the economy. But this is still very far behind. How exactly does he reflect on that? 'Cause what if inflation gets worse? What measures are there to take to ensure that the promise "everyone is making progress" is fulfilled? The crisis is over, but socio-economic health inequalities are growing in the Netherlands. Women with low education die even earlier, a year and a half. The difference between women with a high level of education and a university or theoretical education, as we are going to call it today, is ten years of practical training. In men, it's eight years. And then at least 13 years alive in worse health. The socio-economic health differences in the Netherlands are as large as in the US. What does that say about our country, I ask the Minister? And does he also feel responsible for leaving our people healthy, and not just the numbers? The cabinet is talking about financial robustness, and yet a billion euros are being nailed down through all kinds of cash slides, on which we have little vision. Of course, that's not a problem at all, if that's possible. But we want to be able to follow it. I also have the idea that over the last few years there has been a deliberate over-estimate of social affairs and care. Then we say in the presentation of the Millions Note: look how much goes to it, look how much we spend on it, but we always keep it and it goes to other goals. That's not so neat. Because I think those people who are on the waiting list for mental health care, for home care or for hospital treatment would like to see that structural underexhaustment on care goes to that care. The crisis is over, but in Groningen, they notice it only slightly. Stuntling Wiebes goes through the file. How do we know that? There's no way we can get together with Shell and Exxon. What we're hearing now is that they're gonna contribute less to reinforcement and they're gonna get more by stopping gas extraction. For years they have made so much money, for years the Groningers have been in uncertainty and it is still not clear what exactly this is about. A family received reinforcements and waited for the installation of solar panels. They therefore had €1.080 too much in the savings account at the turn of the year and now have to refund €1,500 in surcharges to the Tax Office. Can we do something about that, I ask the Minister? It also disturbs the SP and certainly the Groningen people that the government is pretending that there would be no money left by the gas decision to do other necessary repairs for our society. The crisis is over, but there are more poor families than ever. Poverty is deepening. A quarter of a million of the seven million households have to live on low incomes for four years or more. Despite the growth of our common prosperity, we do not share this prosperity well. The number of children growing up in poverty has been 400,000 for years. Why can't we fix this? Can't go on school trips, no music lessons, uncertainty that'll last the rest of your life. Why doesn't this minister feel responsible for that? The economy grows like coal, the money pounces against the plinths, but we see that it prefers to go to foreign governments, multinationals and lower public debt. More inequality, a more divided country, but it has to go back to the state debt. What is the Minister going to do to reduce the gap that we see in many areas, to make the 90% that this has to do with economic growth, for example to reduce the huge capital gap in our country, so that multinationals and millionaires will also pay for the challenges for the whole country? When we had to save the banks, it cost 90 billion. And the blows ended up with people who weren't part of it. Social workshops, for example. Reductions on the costs of workplaces, no more people, and now we see that the social workshops can no longer be kept in the air. We are making money available for this in an amendment, because we see that there is money left and we are told that the crisis is over. But can these people who need a little support to work take advantage of that? The crisis is over, but there is less and less access to justice. That's under pressure. According to the Van der Veer Committee, there is twenty years of late maintenance when it comes to the remuneration that social lawyers receive. Actually, the Secretary of State for Legal Protection acknowledges that. Only he doesn't have any money, he says, to fix that. No money. If we want everyone to have access to the law and not just people with a big wallet to pay a lawyer, we have to ensure that the social lawyer stays alive. And that's not happening right now. People are getting involved, they've got more costs than it's gonna cost. New crops aren't coming in. This is worrying about the future of our rule of law. That is why we need 127 million in structural terms for the social lawyer. I know that we are not in a position to regulate something in a structural way, but I have released 164 million for this year, so that we can at least adjust the leg for the next six months. We are going to try to settle that, and we hope, of course, that the Minister for Legal Protection will do so already with the Millions Note. Otherwise we will take the initiative. 7 million savings within the Education budget as there was a setback in the funding of studies leads to the disappearance of learning places for 40,000 young people undergoing training in the MBO. I think it's so stupid. Why aren't these kids one of them, these kids? 40,000 learning places disappear due to a setback in student funding. I would like us to fix this and I hope that the government can support my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u88	I would like to thank Mrs Leijten for her warm plea for professionals, technical professionals, because we need them so badly in this country. I think it is an extremely sympathetic amendment that Mrs Leijten has tabled, but it is an uncovered amendment. Does Mrs. Leijten have cover? The Christian Union is always voting against uncovered amendments and I would very much like to support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u89	It's covered. It's in the general budget. The fact that you, not you, President, but the Christian Union have made the budget agreement that everything that comes in extra to the repayment of the sovereign debt is your own clamp. You can also choose: there is also a billion encrypted within the budget, to say here: listen, there is an additional 3.8 billion, we are only halfway through the year and we are talking about 7 million but we are talking about 40,000 children, we are saying that the budgetary rules should be less strict. But these are not my budgetary rules, I say clearly. That is the clamp that the Christian Union itself has imposed on itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u90	It is clear that we do not agree on sensible budgetary policies. That is a pity, because if it were covered I would like it. But then we leave it like that, too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u91	What the hell is this shit? Then I'll find somewhere a structural underexhaustment on care to cover it out? Only then will I do something which I do not like either, because I do not think that this structural underexhaustment on care, on social matters, should be included in the budgetary system. What happens here is something so small but means a lot to a large group of 40,000 people. Everyone's part, we're recovering from the crisis and then you couldn't give out that 3.8 billion 7 million to 40,000 study places for children?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mrs Leijten's option is that the government is getting bigger and bigger, and I will not go along with that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u93	No, not at all. The option is that we put 40,000 children in trouble because they are no longer able to follow a learning path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u94	May I suggest to Mrs Leijten that we take a moment to find cover for the 7 million, for example with Mr Bruins, and see if we can support the amendment with 7 million coverage? I think that should be possible, and I think that this should be opened up by the coalition. I think we should take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u95	I am always willing to talk to everyone, but I would also like to explain here that the budgetary rules are not an agreement for which the whole Chamber is responsible. 76 Members in this Chamber are responsible for this, so Mr Bruins himself can also say: I do not really think this applies here. I also know what happens when I use under-exhaustment, I say to my colleague from GroenLinks. If you use under-exhaustment in the spring note, the government says: no, the Chamber cannot get there yet, because we may still need that in the course of the year. That's why it's always very complicated to use your budget right. You must not come to underexhaustment, "for we may still need it," we must not come to the general means because it has been said: we cannot out of the general means...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u96	Clear. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u97	I fully agree with Mrs Leijten, of course, but I think we should now look very practically at whether we can arrange this for those MBO students. That seems to me to be the most important priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u98	Sure. I also believe that this applies to legal protection and social law. If there's an opening there because there's an underexhaustment, I think we should pay for it from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u99	Please continue, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u100	But how is it that the Secretary of Law says he doesn't have any money? The crisis is over, but not for rheumatic patients and people with osteoarthritis. They will not be reimbursed for the heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals they receive on prescription. Ask a doctor how necessary these medicines are if you are already ill. In order to save 40 million we transfer the bill to people who are already ill, who cannot work because of their illness and often already have very high healthcare costs. I ask the Minister: shouldn't we? We're out of the crisis anyway. We don't always have to wallow that on the sick, do we? We're all getting too fat. Today this was also in the news. We know that children are moving less and less. That is a bad, worrying situation, especially for health in the longer term. We are talking not only about longer-term financial health, but also about longer-term physical health. My colleague Van Nispen has made a bill that says: three hours of sports in the primary school of a professional teacher. We need resources for that. We would like to ask the Minister to fill this out for next year, so that if the bill is adopted, it will be effective. If he is not prepared to say now that he will take this into the Millions note, then we will table a motion for that. Mr. Chairman. We see that raising the AOW age comes completely before the valve of low-income people. They can't buy their pension before. Working to the death for low incomes and practical occupations is actually what is in sight. More like enjoying your old age when you have money, but not if you don't have it. We already know these people are dying ten years earlier. Does the Minister see this problem? The gap between rich and poor, between people with practical training and those with theoretical training, is only increased by the increase in the AOW age. You know, the cops don't see for themselves how they work up to 68 years. In the front line of our society, far too few colleagues have to do your job properly, see organised crime grows and grows and lacks colleagues who can guarantee the safety of people. They can barely be present in the neighborhoods. Police stations continue to close due to the tasks assigned to them by the previous government. This government says that there will be new money for the police officers, but then they will have to be more flexible. They've become furious. You're right! Tomorrow they'll love the Mars from the squeezed lemon. Is the Minister going to explain that it can be more flexible? Is that where he's gonna explain that a family life for a police officer doesn't seem to matter? I'm curious. The money's fucked up all over the place. 1 billion extra ICT expenditure; it was about it yesterday. Less tax revenue because the IRS is on its way. A huge financial dent due to all kinds of tax rules agreed in the past and which would now be applied to much more by European rulings. Deals with Shell and other companies, including billions. People are sick of that. People are sick of it! The cabinet is there for the rich, for the multinationals, for shareholders; 10% of our population. The other 90% have to fight for progress. That's the fight they're gonna fight. As the bus drivers and teachers have done and the officials have shown us: action pays off. We call on everyone: join in, support the fight for higher wages for everyone; do not wait for this cabinet, but join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now turn to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u102	"I don't know what they want from me; it's like the more money we come across; the more problems we see." Or, Mr President, because I know how you relate to the Dutch language: "I'm not sure what they want from me; it's as if more money just means more problems." You'd almost think at this time of high economics that Notorious B.I.G. was right. Almost then, because I see many opportunities at this time to make our economy future-proof now. Mr. Chairman. We're gonna take those chances, too. We already had the greenest coalition agreement ever. Now, with a broad political front, we are setting ambitious targets in a climate law. That is important, not because it makes history, but as a condition for all the plans we have for the future. It's not done with that. Soon we will need just as much ambition and energy to make concrete plans and agreements on the climate agreement. As far as I am concerned, part of this is to ensure that the price also includes environmental and climate costs. The polluter pays, as with the announced flight tax. The fact that the gas infusion budget goes off is an historic decision. In 2008, gas was still 5% of the state's revenue and even 10% in 1985. I therefore understand that such a large decision has not been taken overnight and has not been worked out in detail. Clear communication to people, the Groningers first, and the Chamber is crucial then. Especially with the complex financial flows in the gas building, this has proved to be quite a challenge. I would like to endorse the questions put by Mr Slootweg on this matter and on the role of this minister in it. I would also like to have a more detailed explanation of the budgetary impact of the volume decision. How does the Minister reach EUR 900 million in 2022? On the other floors of the gas building, two further debates are scheduled tomorrow with the Minister responsible. A future-proof economy is also resilient. We're seeing that resilience now. The economy is going well and people notice it more and more. More people are at work than at any time in the last 17 years, but that doesn't mean we're here yet. Fortunately, in the coming years there will also be a reduction in the burden and a new collective agreement has been agreed with an additional 7% for state officials. And yet the most important development must come from the market. We're gonna have to raise wages. There is room for this in many sectors. The Minister also made a nice appeal to this effect in the General Financial Reviews. This resilience of the economy does not come naturally; it requires reforms. In the Financial Reviews, I asked for attention to be paid to the sustainability of healthcare costs. The WRR is going to investigate this. I think that is important, because it better reflects how we can continue to provide people with good care, without reducing other important public expenditure. We must also use this time to maintain the labour market so that the gap between fixed and flex is reduced and people can be used sustainably and their work combined with a family. Fortunately, the adjustment of our pension system also has the full attention of this cabinet and we are working on a housing market that has less impact on the economic situation and reduces the burden on debt. For years the European Commission has seen this as a macroeconomic imbalance for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u103	In the D66 reforms, I always have to swallow for a while. Then I see the age of AOW rising and then I see the healthcare system being marketed with an account for the people and less for the companies. And so on and so on. But it could be that we're dealing with a new D66 here. Would it be okay for D66, in all the necessary reforms that it sees and which have been disastrous for people in the past, to always check on the flexibility of the labour market, whether they are also good for reducing, for example, socio-economic health inequalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u104	I believe that many of the reforms we have carried out in the past have been very important for strengthening our economy and that we are now reaping the benefits of it. A few weeks ago, we supported a motion to have the Cabinet examine how we can actually give greater weight to the Broad Prosperity Monitor in making these plans and in assessing such measures. In that sense, the answer is yes, because some of the items mentioned by Mrs Leijten are certainly included.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u105	You can be damned that all these reforms have led to more prosperity, but that is not prosperity for all of us. These are flexible employment contracts for people without being able to buy or rent a house, work longer for those who cannot buy an earlier pension and a wider gap of socio-economic health inequalities. Those reforms have led to this. Is Mr Sneller of the opinion that, in the future, in the case of all kinds of reforms, you can call that "improvements', and should always look at whether they are good for all people and not just for that 10%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u106	Sure, and I'm also convinced that eventually everyone can benefit from making the economy stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u107	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The best investment in the future is in education and research. It is good that a new collective agreement has also been concluded in primary education, so that the extra 270 million can actually go to teachers. There is also extra money to reduce their workload. Education is not just a priority for D66; the IMF also stresses this importance in its country report on the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Our students are doing better than the estimates predicted. They study more often and more quickly, but a slight deviation from the estimates has acute and significant budgetary implications, while at that time it is already "closely required," as the Minister said strikingly in the legislative consultation on the Annual Report. For the past ten years, there's only been one windfall. My question is: how random is that? The system that we now have leads to unnecessary unrest in the implementation of the budget. It is good that the ministries of OCW and of Finance together will investigate how this can be done better. As far as I am concerned, we are going, for example, towards a system of multiannual averages or a delayed transmission of these derogations. How's the minister looking at this? The in=terminal has also been mentioned before. Some of the available budget for this year is likely to remain unused. With six months to go, the cabinet has already completed 225 million of the in=terminal. This is 22.5% of the total while in 2016 and 2017 it was only 0% at this stage. The underexhaustment towards the end of the year was always sufficient in those years. So I'd like to get a more detailed explanation of that choice. Mr. Chairman. The budgetary rules state that windfalls may be used for setbacks. I see now in the spring note a windfall in the number of cases within legal aid, but there has also been a setback brought to light by the Van der Meer Committee. As the Minister for Legal Protection agrees, the current point system is no longer proportionate to the actual hours that lawyers make for those cases. Or, in this minister's jargon: in the PxQ calculation, the Q is lowered, but that Q does not meet the actual setback within that Q. I would also like to hear a further support from the Minister on this point. Last Monday, the Prime Minister went to see President Trump. Unfortunately, the intended de-escalation of the trade war does not seem to be working and at a time when the Brexit is getting closer and the ECB, quite rightly, ends its buy-back programme, it is clear that the risks are huge. We must prepare ourselves for that. Should we not say: DNB, CPB and the Council of State are making good use of this period otherwise you will be sorry? This includes building buffers. In 2017, 22 billion has been repaid on public debt and for the first time since 2011, we are below the agreed 60% standard. Five billion has already been repaid this year. This leads to lower interest charges and more rest. Stability is also helped by the choice to exclude cyclically sensitive effects such as those of the WW. A good step, but my question is whether we have learned all the necessary lessons from the previous recession. At that time, a series of wide-ranging reviews were needed before the government could take steps and some additional spending was actually only too late to take effect. Today, every policy review has a 20% saving variant, but if we look at this as a package now, does the Minister have a plan for what steps should be taken if the risks I have just outlined become more serious than expected reality? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Notorious B.I.G. said: I don't know what they want from me. Although our minister has as much swag as the Brooklyn rapper had, I hope he not only sees problems but also the odds. It's okay to be clear what I want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u109	I have two questions about the gas deal to Mr Sneller. One: was he generally aware of what the cabinet was going to do? Two: does he also think that Parliament should have the final say on spending?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u110	Not what he was gonna do. I have received as much information at the moments when Mr Nijboer received it. In the end, the Chamber has the right to budget, and that is what we will do with the Millions' Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u111	I know that Mr Sneller attaches great importance to budget law, but how does that relate to the statements made by Minister Wiebes last week in this Chamber? He said: my signature is there, you can't do anything about it as a parliament, it's a fulfilled fact, you can jump high or jump low, but it's a fulfilled fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u112	I think that the idea behind the Compatibility Act, which has been mentioned a number of times, is that this kind of private law action is allowed and that the mandate for that is basically in the Cabinet. We are talking about budget law, and that is more the internal functioning of what we think of it, and we have the final say on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u113	So that last judgment isn't worth anything anymore, because there's nothing we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u114	The private law act is carried out by the Cabinet. We'll check it out. In the end, it will have political consequences if the Minister goes beyond the judgment of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u115	And then we're gonna end up in court. It's still a curious one. Does Mr Sneller at least agree with me that we should have some more information to show how the private-law deal and its legal significance relate to the Compatibility Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u116	Well, I think my colleague Jetten put that question here last week to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u117	We have not yet received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u118	That is what the debate will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u119	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It goes very well economically in the Netherlands and then the government also has time and opportunities to make real choices. The key choices made by this government are summarized as follows: multinationals over people. That is also apparent from the proposals that come to the Chamber. The abolition of the dividend tax is being speeded up; there is no argument for it. The tax on profits has to go down; that costs EUR 3 billion. But the investment measures announced by the cabinet for ordinary people are not really effective: we have hardly seen any law in the Chamber. For about ten projects, the NRC keeps track of the government's schedule for investment and says that about 10% has been achieved. And we've been upset for a while. And that while all measures that are good for multinationals with steam and boiling water are sent to the Chamber and defended. Mr. Chairman. Even worse than that, it is precisely in these good times that additional cuts are being made over the most vulnerable group. I refer in particular to the disabled: half a billion. What kind of antisocial choice is that of the cabinet in these times? I also call the tenants. Everyone knows that the housing shortage is one of the biggest problems of our time and that tenants pay themselves completely blue in rent, if they can find a rental house. And the cabinet is doing it to cut back 138 million, even though there are windfalls. The windfalls are 100 million structurally, according to this Spring note. So there is less spending than budgeting while the problems are big. We really need to get rid of this austerity. But I don't notice that the cabinet is willing to do anything about it. The PvdA is opposed to these main choices of the cabinet, and we are also proposing them. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment in particular on the Court's budget law. That's what this meeting started with. It's about my heart. I have never asked for a roll-call vote in this way before, but I really think that this is being handled carelessly. I think that is a serious matter and I think that all parties should take note of it. I also hear in the introduction of all the previous speakers that they have many questions about the gas deal that has been concluded and about the financing of the decision to bring gas extraction to zero. Those questions are justified. Those questions are justified. Mr. Chairman. The way in which the cabinet informs the Chamber about this is really not acceptable. It depends on half-information, pieces of information that need to be asked, half-values and the beautiful picturing of things that come out well. I call the half billion of the NAM, which turns out to be 135 million. On the other hand, if a deal costs 2.8 billion, tax revenues will be settled at once. Beautiful previews and misdemeanors. In the case of misdemeanours, I would like to mention the example of the cabinet covering only this year's reduced gas extraction. This year the gas tap is almost not closing; it costs almost nothing. But for the following years, the cabinet has not offered a solution. The Minister is shaking no now, but he's just wrong. I've looked at the last spring notes, at structural coverage. There are fourteen examples of structural issues that have been resolved by spring paper, because the costs were clear. Whether it's bed-bath bread or nursing homes, extra investments in police or childcare, it's just use here: if you make a decision and that costs money, then you inform the Chamber about how you cover it. And then you don't say, "It costs 900 million and you'll hear." This doesn't look like anything, Mr. Chairman. And that's bad, because you say "we're gonna do this" on the one hand, but not on the other hand where it's paid for. GroenLinks, the PvdA, the SP and several other parties have already said at the beginning of this cabinet period: don't let the Netherlands be set up against Groningen by making cuts against the gas decision; don't do that, because then you're acting unwise. Now the cabinet finds that it has to cut back, but it does not make it clear what it is doing. That's impossible, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? If I, as an opposition party, make a proposal to the minister that will cost almost nothing this year and that I will cover, but which will be billed in the coming years, then the Minister will not say: that's okay, we'll see about that later? This is not how we deal with the budget here, is it? Mr. Chairman. Now the gas deal itself. A huge deal, with huge consequences and liabilities: liability for damage, liability for reinforcement. Last Monday it was said: we are responsible for the reinforcement. Yesterday there was an extra Council of Ministers meeting, which showed that the Empire is also going to pay. What, the minister won't tell us. I wonder what was discussed there. What's that supposed to be? Has it been agreed that that would cost 400 million? If so, how will that be covered, from what and who will pay for it? We just have a right to know that. In Het Financieele Dagblad, the Minister also said something about the coverage of the gas decision: that he knows how it is covered. He has also confirmed that, because I have put questions to the House. So he knows how it's covered, but he doesn't want Parliament to tell him. What kind of attitude is that, Mr. Chairman? If you know that, the parliament must be informed immediately. Then the 2.8 billion. Why does the cabinet choose not to present that directly to the deal, so to immediately inform the Chamber? Why does the cabinet choose to only provide information until 2022, and not until 2030, the duration of the deal? Why does the cabinet choose to present the Vpb revenue, which is completely unusual, to this deal as if it were a lower amount? And why did the cabinet do exactly the opposite when 500 million had to be raised? Then the cabinet didn't say it was actually much less. That's no way to inform, is it? And every time, the Chamber has to ask and information comes out. The cabinet has an active duty of information to the Lower House, chairman. In particular, I am asking for this because this is always hanging over the market, and it is always hanging over the claim that the companies could impose on the government. This is always said, as Mrs De Vries said, as a ransom. Is that right? Could Shell and Exxon have made a claim? Question two: did they say that to the cabinet? So something like, if you don't compensate us, we'll file a claim. If so, when? In the media, these companies have always denied this. Three: has the lawyer asked for advice on how strong the legal position of the NAM, Shell and Exxon was? Personally, I don't give them a chance. The Council of State has said it twice to the government. He destroyed the gas extraction decision about how much we can win there, because the safety of Groningen was not paramount. And that's a legitimate reason to do that as a government. So I don't see any position for those companies for a claim. But I'm assuming the Cabinet has searched this thoroughly before it gives away 2.8 billion if it doesn't need to. It's always being screened, but the room doesn't know anything. There is a call for a claim to be made, but that is not an argument for taking out such a large amount of money for Shell and Exxon? So, what exactly is that all about? I also ask the Minister what his involvement in this deal has been. Was he aware of all those parts, and when? And when did he intervene? And how is it that a Council of Ministers had to be held yesterday, because apparently it is hundreds of millions? As a chamber, we don't have that information, but it's in the newspapers, so I guess so. Usually the answers come to the Chamber after that; we'll see when that is. When did the minister get involved? What did the Secretary of State find on this deal? Or did he let Minister Wiebes walk free and was the signature under the gas deal also a fulfilled fact for him? Was he tied to it, too? Those are answers the Chamber is entitled to. It's a lot of questions, questions that shouldn't have to be asked here. I'm underlining that one more time. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that we also need to cut back on the gas extraction decision. You can see that this year's cabinet uses windfalls at Social Affairs and Health, Welfare and Sport. Well, that doesn't seem to hurt, 'cause they're lucky. But if you hadn't, you could have made other choices. For example, you could have removed the cut on the rent allowance. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Je had de bezuiniging op de arbeidsgehandicapten, waarvan ik weet dat die de ChristenUnie zwaar op de maag ligt, kunnen verzachten of zelfs van de baan kunnen vegen.]] It is therefore not the case that this agreement remains without consequences for people. I call on the Cabinet to do so, regardless of what it costs, apart from the bad deal that should never have been closed and which burden the taxpayer with responsibilities that should have been borne by large companies. Take that out of the box and make sure that you take the painful measures that the Cabinet takes for those who are most vulnerable, the tenants, the sick people, the risk of their own, the disabled people, off the table. It's easy now. It's a political choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u121	I give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u122	Mr. Chairman. We live at the top of a boom, but there are signs that we have already passed this summit. At least the peak in economic growth seems to be behind us. The expected growth for this year has been adjusted downwards by the CPB by a few tenths. The labour market is getting tighter every day, entrepreneurs are screaming for staff, and it seems harder for entrepreneurs than ever to get good professionals and enough seasonal workers, although card boxes are anything but empty. In all this economic weather, there are also plenty of downside risks around us. First of all, the threat of an escalating trade war with Trump, where one thing is clear: we as an open competitive economy are vulnerable to its consequences. Second, the Brexit. Only 268 days, but since the day of the infamous brexirefementum, we've only gotten one day closer to a deal, so my question to the Minister. A Brexit without a deal is especially harmful, besides of course for Ireland also for our country. Think of the fishermen here a few kilometers away in the Scheveningen port, who are more than 60% dependent on British waters. Surely it cannot be that the Brexit is ending a tradition of centuries of fishing in British waters? In short, are we sufficiently prepared for a Brexit without a deal? The third risk is, of course, Italy's announced extremely expansionary fiscal policy and hence the structural imbalances in the euro area, which we obviously do not want to resolve with a political union with its own budget that will start small but will end grotesquely. Although we have to face these risks, our country and Europe as a whole are going economically well. The question then is: do we buy out this time well? Are debts being phased out, so that in lean years that come we have built up a buffer again? Looking at the developments in the euro area alone, I am not confident. The credit crisis seems to be solved with the provision of more credit and the mockery buying of money. Anyway, I have been critical of the ECB's policy in this Chamber before. I am relieved that the irresponsible expansion policy is finally being brought down. We have often talked about Italy in recent months, but take a country like France. High-class or not, France is barely holding its deficit for the first time in years just under 3%. The last surplus in France's budget dates back to 1974. 1974, Madam President! That's when Macron had to be born. How's the Minister looking at this? As a government, we are not unkind here in the Netherlands. Although fiscal policy is rather expansive, we are heading towards a small surplus again. As a percentage of GDP, the debt ratio is falling sharply towards pre-crisis levels. But is our private debts going to be okay? After an initial decline, mortgage debt rises again, albeit less quickly than before the crisis, but still. The student debts are also rising rapidly. How does the Minister view private debt development in the knowledge that low-growth may not be very far away? Are we doing enough to reduce private debt by means of measures such as a slightly further reduction in mortgage interest relief, the abolition of the citizen loan system, to mention just a very topical example, and the reduction in interest relief, to call it a little larger beer? Of course, my group welcomes these measures and the increase in the fight against problematic debt and the prevention of these debts, but the question remains whether the agreements made are adequate. Are we reducing private debt to a sufficient extent or are we not going to go beyond slowing down the growth of this? Mr. Chairman. Groningen first. That was the commitment of the Christian Union to the creation of the Spring Note. Glasses can always be fuller, but I am happy for the Groningen people that in the spring note they really were chosen for them. With this morning's letter, the Minister gave some further insight into the budgetary consequences of the choices made, for which I am grateful. In short, the reduction in revenues due to the zero extraction of gas in Groningen in 2030 will be covered by the expenditure ceiling set by this cabinet, with each ministry contributing to a greater or lesser extent. The reduced contributions of the NAM and the cost of the reinforcement notice that is now being taken up rapidly are taken up outside the expenditure frameworks and are thus included in the EMU balance. This way of dealing with the financial consequences of reducing gas extraction, offering prospects of viability and jobs to the Groningen people and strengthening their homes is good for the Christian Union Group. Mr. Chairman. Although the cabinet has not been sitting still in recent months, think about Groningen, for the first time this year we are going to see as Chambers what was agreed in the government agreement last October, for example the measures by which we reduce the burden on labour income. We have increased the burden on consumption and pollution. You will understand that I look forward to the comprehensive Tax Plan and next year's budget. I would also like to give one final point to the cabinet. Wage developments are finally coming on steam. At the same time, inflation is picking up. It remains exciting how the static purchasing power development will look next year and whether it will be sufficiently balanced. To this end, I urge the govern ment to commit itself to a balanced purchasing power development for next year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u123	I have one question. Mr Bruins referred to the Tax Plan. He heard my speech on the abolition of the dividend tax. Does he agree with me that Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, objective, effectiveness and efficiency should also be argued for the abolition of dividend taxation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u124	We can have a very long debate on this. I think this debate on the Spring paper is not the place. I suspect that we will come back to that more often in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u125	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u126	We are certainly going to have a lot of debates on dividend taxation. I'd be happy to help with that. In my view, it is a matter for the Ministry to know, when preparing the legislative proposal, that we want Article 3.1 to be implemented explicitly and separately for the abolition of dividend taxation, not in a package containing all kinds of other measures. I don't think that would be in the spirit of the Compatibility Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u127	I'm waiting for the Tax Plan to come to the Chamber in the next few months. Then we'll talk about this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u128	Do you not also think that the proposal for the draft directive on dividend taxation should be assessed separately, independently of other elements, on all aspects, including efficiency?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u129	I believe that all legislative proposals should be dealt with very carefully in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u130	That discussion has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u131	I have no problem with that being discussed in an overall package, because it is important to always look at tax measures in their context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr. Chairman. What a difference from six years ago. Do you remember? There was a fine from the European Commission for our excessive deficit. For weeks, intensive meetings were held at the Catshuis. All discussable and non-negotiable subjects were on the table. There was a real crisis at the time. We all know that in times of crisis everything becomes liquid. That is what it was, under European pressure, which I have never seen in the same way, against France and Italy, for example. Somewhat at the bottom of the economic cycle, the "perfect storm" was created for draconian measures. It was a long, hot summer with the Kunduz Accord and the election campaign. Many economists have argued that the interventions in 2013, both in substance and in confidence, have done more harm than good. Hardly inhibiting the decline of the economy and now today in the booming great expansion policy. Back to that time. It was economically ill-advised crisis policy, which at the expense of the country's prosperity and, in particular, of the income and security of the elderly and pensioners. The reason I quote this history is twofold. Firstly, my party's history is linked to this history for a not insignificant part. Secondly, this says something about the power of Brussels, which we must be very aware of in the present with a money hungry European Union. With the Kunduz chord, the charges went up by almost 10 billion and the AOW age was sacrificed, just like that. In total, the burden increase has increased to more than 16 billion over that period, of which 5 billion has been returned much later. But you already guessed it: almost not to the pensioners. At the time there was the acid and then it was sweet, but not for the elderly. That just stays acidic. Now that we have a little more to spend, Brussels is asking for additional billions for the new multiannual budget and an additional separate budget for the euro area. Now that the Dutch government finally has something to spend again, the money is claimed by the same body that put us under heavy pressure in 2012 to give up the pearl of our social achievements. Our motion on the euro area budget has been rejected, but we will come up with a new one as soon as the issue even comes into sight of the Brussels agenda. That seems clear to me. Mr. Chairman. In particular, the elderly have been given much more trouble. Let me mention the list of the most important anti-aging measures in recent years and before: The indirect fiscalisation of the AOW. Pensioners must raise a larger proportion of the AOW themselves each year; The introduction of the Forest tax. Pensioners are more likely to gain a higher tax base than workers; The income-dependent care premium. Pensioners do not pay 5.5% income-dependent care contributions and employees do not; The Law on the Uniformization of Wage Concepts. Pensioners were not compensated for the 4% increase in the first tax base. Working people did get that benefit; Don't mention it in the 5 billion package. This went almost entirely to the workers; Abolition of the elderly allowance in box 3 for very low-income older people. This was simply abolished at once three years ago; Reduce the old-age discount on the employment discount. The employment discount is much and much higher than the old-age discount. The old-age discount is reduced three times as quickly as the employment discount; Last but not least, there we have her again: the payoff and the abolition of the Hills Act. Instead of rewarding people who pay off, they've been fined by the Cabinet. Back to the present. Now inflation is finally rising. At least that's what it looks like. Moreover, according to the Spring note, contract wage increases have decreased compared to the Central Economic Plan. I have the following question to the Minister. Is the small fall in contract wage increases in the Spring Note compared to the Central Economic Plan perhaps a sham move? If the collective agreement of state officials is decisive for what awaits us for the whole economy, the wage increase will increase from almost 2% to about 3%. Can the Minister confirm that? The Netherlands Bank has also recently issued a report on this issue. Wage increases are of course a good thing for the citizens, the hard-working Dutchman, but when will the no longer be able to see this development and how much is left for them now that inflation is increasing? Is the cabinet prepared to intervene and, if not, why not? It is not possible for pensioners to be caught first by ECB policy in a very harsh way that we are still experiencing the consequences of, namely no indexation and even reductions, whereas that ECB policy was designed to drive inflation forward and then to be put back on track once again because inflation is now rising because of that ECB policy, but also because of the rise in wages? I'd like a response from the Minister. First, the policy of the ECB, then the trade war, which also leads to an increase in inflation. For example, older people are first bitten by dogs and cats for retirement, first by the ECB and now by the trade war that is coming after them. For this year, we want to correct higher inflation by means of an amendment calling for an additional 2% increase in the AOW. We also call on the cabinet to increase the elderly discount in next year's Tax Plan and to reduce it less quickly compared to the current plans. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the week we were informed of the OECD's biennial report on the Dutch economy. Among other things, it states that in no country has the number of self-employed persons grown as much as in the Netherlands. In 15 years, according to the OECD, the share of flex work rose from 4% of the labour market to 17%. I now quote the OECD: 'The generous tax advantages for the self-employed contribute to large differences in the taxation of workers'. I would like to point out, like the OECD, that the 2015 IBO report warned about this development and that nothing was done at the time and now to the great disappointment of my group. The coalition agreement also shows that nothing is actually happening. The OECD then concludes that the limitation of tax incentives for self-employment is necessary and that flex workers are required to participate in social security. I'd like a response from the Minister. What expectations does the government have with regard to the development of the number of self-employed persons when tax incentives would be reduced? Is it possible, according to the Minister, to establish a link between the use of part of the tax arrangements for entrepreneurs and participation for those million non-workers in social security? We are thinking in particular of disability insurance and, of course, a pension provision. We are going to have to look ahead to the old age of a million people by now. It is high time we finally made good arrangements for this group. Mr. Chairman. I agree with the questions on the gas decision and the budgetary implications until 2030. Finally, 50PLUS believes that pensions should not be reduced in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. General considerations are being taken into account in the spring note in more and more municipalities. The reason can be guessed, because at that moment you can still give the College points of attention for the forthcoming budget rather than putting your finger on anything that is not really desirable afterwards. I want to use the same method today by giving the government a little bit of credit for the forthcoming budget. Then you know when you can count on our support and when you can't. Traditionally, I will, of course, bring forward Defence and the single-earners, and I will add a few points to that: taxes for housing corporations, the simplification of the tax system, the cost of cleaning up drug waste and water pollution. First, defense. In 2018, many funds promised in the coalition agreement were actually made available. The same applies to the defence budget, amounting to 681 million. An indispensable step and a compliment for that. In the coming years, however, much remains to be done to reverse these years of austerity. We only see, since the autumn agreement in 2013, that it takes quite a lot of effort for the organisation to invest these resources as quickly and effectively as possible. The distribution of the amount of 681 million is not clear to us. So our question is: are there any concrete plans for this? If so, how are these resources distributed? And if not, how can we prevent a cash drawer from taking place at the end of the year because there is still no investment? Then there's the one-earned. The SGP is concerned about purchasing power development. And we're not the only ones, we've heard, because among others the PVV and the SP have shown with the necessary emotion that it also suits them. This is demonstrated by the CPB's Central Economic Plan 2018. Unfortunately, last few years, pluses have become lovers. And you already guessed: the ugliest minus stood with the one earner who earns twice the morale. All the other earners weren't very good at it either. From 0.1%, the one earner I just quoted went to minus 0.8%, after turning it in year by year. The spring note does not say anything about purchasing power, but in September we will undoubtedly see these purchasing power cards again. In the run-up to that, I would like to call on you to give the single-earners a bigger plus next time, so that they do not fall back on it again. Then there's another subject: the housing corporations. We are awaiting the implementation of the Tax Avoidance Directive, the ATAD. The SGP considers it very important to tackle tax avoidance. But we also think it is important that we do not unintentionally tackle a sector here, namely housing corporations. The SGP considers it disastrous that housing corporations will have to pay 300 million more corporate tax, whereas this money is very much needed for the sustainability of housing stock and for new construction. I would therefore call on the Minister to create an exception for housing corporations or to reduce the landlord's tax by the same amount. Then there is the simplification of the tax system. Deadlines soon come into view on which the parameters can be adjusted. Not for nothing have we had to deal with the implementation of the Hills Act for more than a year. IRS beeps and cracks. I don't think we need to explain that further. However, in line with the OECD, the SGP would like to repeat: bring marginal tax rates down in the 2019 Tax Plan and simplify the system by reducing the number of discounts. Then a very different, practical, subject: drug waste. If drug waste is dumped on your territory, then you yourself are responsible for the cost of cleaning up, when you have nothing to do with it at all, at least that's what we're assuming. That defies the sense of justice. And it also provokes dangerous behavior, because with a bill of tens of thousands of euros in prospect, it becomes very attractive to dump your waste with someone else. Now it seems that some provinces are going to work to find pots for that, but it seems to us much more logical to set up a national subsidy scheme for the disposal of that dumped drug waste. So our question is: what is the Minister's position on this? Finally, I would like to mention a little bit of water pollution. It's something that's been getting a lot of attention in the last few weeks, when we're actually dealing with a water shortage, at least in many places. Anyway, all year long, that water pollution's been going on. Of course, it is often linked to climate. That will undoubtedly be the case with all the extra rain showers that we have and they are coming, but it is also true that we have done spatial planning in a certain way in recent years. We have applied all kinds of compactions in this respect and natural watercourses have not been given their place and so on. Last week this was discussed in the Old Water. We have seen with joy that the Minister is proposing that a legislative amendment be made to the Delta Fund so that, in addition to safety, the approach to water pollution can be financed. Now we think it is very important that this water pollution is addressed, but not at the expense of water safety. It is good that the Minister says: in the run-up to this change of law, I want to make available two times ten million. But if we look at what's going on in society and what's going on, I've said it before. I've blown twice 10 million twice and it's gone. So we would very much like to see the Delta Fund, if it is opened up and used to finance the management of water pollution, be substantially supplemented so as not to deal with water pollution and, in the meantime, allow an even bigger problem, water safety, to be tackled at the expense of that pollution. In this country, where we have been fighting against water for centuries, we need to tackle this water pollution, but also to keep an eye on water safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u136	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is doing well, the multinationals are doing very well, but all Dutch are not doing well. That is unjust, because we are all entitled to a piece of prosperity. As the Minister writes in his Spring paper, the overall economic picture is positive. The growth forecast for 2018 has been adjusted to 3.2%, but this growth is still too low for all Dutch. This year, the government expects wages to increase by 2.2%, with inflation at 1.6% and, on balance, a slight 0.6% increase in purchasing power. Mr President, let us not forget that the 2007 assessment was wrong. The development of purchasing power was very disappointing. As has been said, overall macroeconomic policies are positive. Full employment is even in sight. Who could ever think that? As far as purchasing power is concerned, I have just said that this is a dramatic picture. It does not translate sufficiently into the purchasing power of Dutch households. The last Millions note showed that real disposable income has not or hardly increased since 2001. The economic prosperity that coalition partners talk about with a lot of words is not automatically distributed fairly among the population. The citizens of this country hear wonderful stories about that economy, but the wallet remains pretty empty. Yesterday there was an article in Het Financieele Dagblad about the large differences in life expectancy between people on high and low incomes. According to Netspar's research, this difference is no less than nine and a half years and has increased by more than one and a half years in recent years. Mr President, poverty is deadly and this difference is as great as in the United States, whereas income disparities are much greater there. Does the Minister share the view of the DENK Group that something should be done about this? For example, the increase in AOW age introduced less quickly, whatever social partners want? I'd like a response from the Minister. As far as we are concerned, labour market relations are not in balance. The trade union movement appears to have too weak a negotiating position, possibly also due to the progressive flexibilisation. This seems to be confirmed by the OECD report a few days ago. This is because the OECD points to the negative effects of an overly flexible policy. Too many agency workers, payrollers andzzp'ers. The latter group, of course, has many tax advantages and has no compulsory social security and pension structure. This gives a great competitive advantage, but it also has disadvantages. The government agreement also states that the government is going to do something about this, including in the form of a minimumzzp rate. We have not yet seen any legislative proposals for this. When are these coming? Can the Minister tell us about this and can the Minister also respond to the OECD's analysis of this investigation? How can he contribute to countering this fluctuating flexibilisation? Mr. Chairman. How can the position of these unions be strengthened? And is it true that the position of the FNV and the CNV in particular is being further undermined? We had Jumbo last week and last week the retail non-food with among others Leen Bakker and Quantum, where the FNV was put out again. Only a small increase of 1.03% has been agreed. I was thinking: that must be a mistake; that must be perhaps 1.3%. But it's really 1.03%. The CNV, the Union and the AVV eventually agreed, but from a weak position. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to another point that a number of colleagues have also mentioned: budgetary law. Why is the Chamber only informed afterwards, after far-reaching agreements have been made with Shell and Exxon? In the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, this is an undermining of budget law. I want to talk about this today, because we see that other parliaments have a much stronger budget right. Is it true that the establishment of the departmental budgets in the period March to September is a process which takes place mainly within the walls of the ministries and government and that, unlike the parliaments in many other countries, the parliament has virtually no influence on this? Is it true that in other countries Parliament is being taken much better into account in drawing up the budget? A good example of this is the United States. The United States has a Congressional Budget Office. 230 employees work there. They have their own budget of $47 million. So they have a very good view of the financial flows. Why can't we do that in our parliament? In the Netherlands, Parliament only has a role in formal decision-making at the end of the budgetary process. Often the money has already been committed and spent, as in the adoption of the final laws. The government's budgetary documents are formal accounts. These budget items rarely or never provide an insight into the room that the Chamber has to spend the funds in a different way. That is why we also see that in recent years the Chamber has managed to reverse only 1% of the budget by means of amendments. When MPs ask the government for possible cover, the answer is always: there is no money. That is to say, there is money, but it is already legally committed or invested in administrative or policy. In the case of financial amendments, the Chamber is constantly told that there is no cover. There are often all kinds of money pots within the ministries, but these are not known to the Chamber. If money is released during the year, it is reported in the autumn note and in the spring note, but then the money is again re-destined, or actually spent again. Internally, the government prepares everything that the Chamber has no knowledge of. In this way, it is not clear from the documents which cash transfers are being carried out by the government, i.e. which funds are being pushed forward or backwards. In this way, the Chamber is not given the opportunity to make its own choices in the different directions of spending. That's not gonna get the room to the ball. Ministers and State Secretary play the game, and the Chamber may subsequently determine the outcome of the contest. Mr. Chairman. Parliament has too little influence on the budget. For example, budget law is often a paper law in practice. That can and must be changed. When it comes to legislation, the Court has access to the excellent Legislative Office, which prepares amendments and legislative proposals. But why doesn't the House of Representatives actually have an agency budget similar to the American Congressional Budget Office? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Mr President, I would like to address the following question to the Bureau: can you see how the financial responsibility of the Chamber can be better supported, so that the Chamber has more control over expenditure in the budget? Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the words used by the Minister himself in the previous AO. He said, "When others make plans and they come to me to sign the cross, I say, "I'm not that big of a deal." I would also like to point out that in the case of budgets, the Chamber should not sign off on the cross. I would like a response from the Minister to the question of how he can contribute to a more proactive role for Parliament in making financial plans prior to commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u138	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u139	I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour, so until 2:00 p.m. Then we start with the arrangement of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u140	Do you think it's gonna take more than 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-6.u141	I'm suspending until 2:00 p.m. Then we have the arrangement. And at 2.15 p.m., we start with the Minister's response.
