ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34854 Repeal of the Advisory referendum Act. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. A serious devaluation of our democracy. That was not only an appeal noted in 1966, but also what this proposal for the withdrawal of the consultative referendum brings about. Nota bene a D66 minister may overthrow and sacrifice a small piece of acquired direct democracy on the altar of power politics. A little as Abraham had to sacrifice his son Isaac, D66 sacrifices the consultative referendum in a test of loyalty. And not to the higher power, but to the power elite and the associated government plush. It is to be seen whether, as with Abraham, a saving angel will keep them from this misstep. After all, it is not just the sacrifice of a political pick pole but, above all, our citizens taking an instrument out of their hands, without any equivalent alternative. Mr. Chairman. During the discussion in this Chamber in 2014 of the introduction of the Advisory referendum Act, the group chairman of D66, Mr Thom de Graaf, explicitly appointed the importance of the referendum as an instrument in the hands of citizens. "I do want the instrument to be given to citizens, and I even think it is crucial." And: 'You can see from my speech that my group makes a fundamental choice for the referendum as a right to be used by the citizens to rule on a legislative act proposed by the government and by the States-General and possibly reject that intention. A right of correction that does not replace representative democracy, but complements it." At that time, it was crucial for D66 to give citizens this right of correction, but suddenly not anymore. What remains of this basic choice of D66? For the PVV, for us, this basic choice is beyond question. The referendum is and will continue to be a necessary complement to representative democracy. On the contrary, the referendum offers the opportunity to give the elected government additional commitment to their electorate to keep their ideas sharp and where necessary adjust them. A clear added value for our democracy. In 2014, Mr De Graaf also asked the VVD spokesperson, Mrs Huijbregts-Schiedon, the following question: "Now that she basically rejects the referendum as a stick behind the door or as an additional tool of the population, I ask her if she has any other proposals we can talk about." The same question can now be put to D66 and her minister: what equivalent alternative is left for the population? That's what makes this bill so abject. It abolishes a referendum instrument immediately, without an alternative, without the public being able to vote on it in a referendum on that abolition. There is no need for abolition, let alone a valid justification. The government's only argument is that the consultative referendum leads to disappointment among voters. A deception of the top shelf. It is not the referendum as an instrument that leads to disappointment but the way in which the government deals with referendum results. The government can choose to ignore a referendum result and introduce a law anyway. This is inherent in the advisory and advisory nature of this referendum. The problem is that the government does not dare to take responsibility for that choice. It is up to the electorate to judge a government on its actions in the Lower House elections. This includes taking responsibility for a referendum result. If the government feels that it is necessary not to follow a referendum result, it must dare to explain that choice openly, dare to answer publicly. The voter can take that into account in the voting booth and appreciate it or punish it. This is how our democracy should work. But this government dares not take responsibility for its choices. If she chooses to ignore a result and introduce a law after all, she seeks to escape in slips, goat paths or a few meaningless policies, leaving the result on balance the same. This kind of cowardly flight behaviour for the electorate, for all intents and purposes: flight behaviour for the electorate is a disappointment, not the referendum an sich. It is not the electorate who is disappointed in the referendum but the government. He is disappointed with the outcome of the referendum. It is the government that disappoints by not being able to take responsibility for its choices. Opinion polls also show that as many as 59% of voters do not think it is a right decision to withdraw the consultative referendum. Only 28% would support the withdrawal. By withdrawing the consultative referendum now, the government is only further in the direction of disappointment. A further mistake by the government is that the consultative referendum would be the prelude to a remedially binding referendum. There's nothing concrete about that. Both proposals were presented side by side at the time, with the consultative referendum being intended as an independent instrument. The Minister refers in support of the horizon clause of the Advisory referendum Act: "because this law leaves no room for the different referendum instruments to co-exist." The horizon clause was not included at the time in order to take a further step towards a binding referendum, but as a prerequisite to prevent the existence of both systems alongside each other if a binding corrective referendum were ever to be introduced without a target criterion being used as an "advice'. The functional need for withdrawal is currently lacking. In fact, if this government takes the parliamentary system of the state committee seriously, it should certainly not now withdraw the consultative referendum. It is this state committee which, in its interim report, is considering precisely the binding corrective referendum and, in addition, welcomes referenda in general. The so-called next step is thus again explicitly in the picture. Or is this state committee just a show for the stage, which the government is not going to actually follow up on after all? Is the Minister prepared to respond to these findings from the interim report, rather than to remain silent on this until the final report appears? Why does the Minister respond in the written reply or with points in the interim report which are acceptable in her argument for the withdrawal of the consultative referendum and not on other points? How can she justify this cherrypicking behavior? In addition, in reply to our written question on the signal function of the consultative corrective referendum, the Minister refers to the final report of the State Commission to be published. The Minister can therefore not yet call an equivalent alternative to this signal function........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's the wrong order of things, Mr. Chairman. Don't throw away old shoes until you get new ones. These advisory referendum shoes have actually been used as good as new, hardly anymore. So once again the question to the Minister what equivalent alternative are within the existing system to give effect to this signal function. Retroactive withdrawal after publication in the Official Journal also remains an disproportionate and unnecessary measure. It should prevent a new referendum on withdrawal, but a new referendum does not stand in the way of a permanent withdrawal, as the outcome is always of an advisory nature. Nevertheless, the essential point here is that the government does not dare to answer if it is allowed to decide on something that would go against a majority of voters. A disproportionate measure is taken to break into the home, as one of the experts called it, in order to avoid potential reputational damage in a referendum on the withdrawal of the referendum. Legislation can and should never be intended for this purpose. There is also a trial of the foundation More Democracy against this method of withdrawal. A provisional provision will be made tomorrow 4 July and the judgment will follow on 1 August. By ratifying this law before then, a state-law vacuum can arise with potentially irreversible consequences. What if more democracy is equal in her? What effect does this have on the retroactive effect of this bill that has already been invoked? What does this mean for the referendability of laws adopted in the meantime? Therefore, it is better to take the certainty now and at best not to adopt this repeal law at all, but should this happen, at least not to allow it to enter into force until the judgment has been delivered in this case. That's why the PVV is filing two motions. A motion requesting that the vote on this bill be postponed until the judge has decided on that claim. In the event that the Chamber refuses to accept this request, we shall table a second motion requesting the Government to postpone ratification and publication in the Official Journal until the court has decided on the claim. Carefulness should be paramount. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van der Sluijs and Mr Dercksen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that Article VI of this bill states: "This law shall enter into force from the day following the date of issue of the Official Journal in which it is placed, and shall take effect until the date of ratification of the proposal of this law.';]] [[Whereas the repeal of the consultative referendum and the retroactive nature of the repeal law are the subject of legal proceedings;]] [[Whereas, if the claim is awarded by the court, it has consequences for the entry into force and referendability of both this repeal law and other laws adopted subsequently;]] [[calls on the Government, if this repeal law is adopted, to postpone ratification and publication in the Official Journal until the court has decided on the claim,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van der Sluijs and Mr Dercksen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that Article VI of this bill states: "This law shall enter into force from the day following the date of issue of the Official Journal in which it is placed, and shall take effect until the date of ratification of the proposal of this law.';]] [[Whereas the repeal of the consultative referendum and the retroactive nature of the repeal law are the subject of legal proceedings;]] [[Whereas, if the claim is awarded by the court, it has consequences for the entry into force and referendability of both this repeal law and other laws adopted subsequently;]] [[requests a postponement of the vote on the bill until the judge has decided on the claim,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-H]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of the proper order of things: the last motion read should be the first to be dealt with. Mr. Chairman. To return to what is at stake here today: the referendum. The PVV sees this as a necessary tool for our citizens to express their views on political social developments, in order to exert influence alongside representative democracy. Preferably in a binding variant, but equally the advisory variant serves the same purpose. The current instrument has now been used twice and seems to be well steered. If the people do not need a referendum, the necessary signatures will also be omitted. It is therefore extremely regrettable and embarrassing that this instrument should already be abandoned. Democratic involvement is thus excluded from its base in society by this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I quote again: 'The great parties of the Netherlands should be ashamed of how little they care about the bottom of their right to exist. The political system is highly archaic and regentesque, delaying and inimitable to voters. The Prime Minister is appointed in the bosom of his own party in a way that would not have been wrong in the Kremlin of the past. And voters are still held back from a direct mandate to power, because that would not fit in with Dutch culture." Thus then D66 leader De Graaf in 2001, who will soon be appointed as Viceroy in the Council of State and who today can decide on the small piece of direct democracy that the Dutch electorate has through the consultative referendum. The quote continues: "In recent years, D66 has had to fight in and outside the government against the repellent twist of most other parties to get at least a little innovation. On that inside of power, we draw determined threads away from the establishment. Like the referendum that will finally be introduced after 20 years of prying. It is only a small intervention, but with great consequences if it makes citizens aware of their own voices that can break the self-evidentness of political power." Thus Thom de Graaf in the 35th anniversary book of D66 from 2001. Mr. Chairman. Does D66 choose today to let go of that little bit of innovation again or does she only want to sit on the thread of the established order? Have all these years been in vain for the referendum, for the awareness of the citizens' own voices, just to be part of that self-evidentness of political power? Or were Mr De Graaf's words hollow at that time? After all, it was D66 under his leadership that in 1999 as a matter of course returned to the political power in the Purple House after the vote against by VVD-senator Hans Wiegel had been rejected by the remedially binding referendum. Even after this Night of Wiegel the referendum for D66 turned out not to be a hard point. Or would they be prepared today to be the voice that keeps their minister from this sacrifice? Will they, like Wiegel at the time, not allow themselves to be tied to the coalition agreement, but take a stand on their own and dare to speak 'against'? Or do you only count the plush and compromise of the polder model and the board elite? In any case, it is clear to the PVV that we are in favour of maintaining the referendum in principle, including this consultative referendum. Therefore, the PVV will vote against this repeal law. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. In Western Europe, the Netherlands, alongside Belgium, will be the only country, if it is up to this government, which has no national referendum. In Western Europe, the Netherlands is already the only country that has no elected mayor. Worldwide referenda are known in all variants. While the Dutch voters in all keys say they want more democracy and the interim report of the state committee recommends the referendum, this government, supported by the arrogance of the power of a single majority vote, calls itself a "full parliamentary democracy." Let us say what it is like: the facts mentioned make the Netherlands a backward country in the democratic field. In the First Chamber today we are talking about a very important law: the repeal of the consultative referendum. With high expectations one looks at the trade and treatment of the chambre de réflexion. The run-up to today was not very stylish. Last Friday, at the end of the afternoon, we received a comprehensive response from the government to further questions. In order to study this, possibly to consult an expert again, to make a responsible argument for today and possible group consultation was given a period of no more than one working day. While there was no urgent need to deal with the bill today. In fact, at the committee meeting, no less than six political groups insisted on consideration at a later date and pointed out that it was a use in the Senate when such a large minority that asked for it was taken into account. It is typical that the D66 committee chairman, pointing to the majority in the Chamber, wanted to continue this discussion today. The First Chamber degrades itself as a chamber of reflection. One of the key issues today is whether the consultative or corrective referendum can exist independently of each other or whether they are inextricably linked. There is no problem with this abroad, but this government sees both forms of referenda inseparably bound together. In other words, it is either or neither. An advisory referendum cannot exist independently in the government's view, and the government sees that as an extension of each other. It is even more strange that a small part of the electorate's participation is being taken away without anything being done, or that it is not being attempted first to improve existing legislation. With an argument that can hardly be followed, the government points out that a consultative referendum raises assumed expectations that are not being fulfilled and that this should make citizens feel disappointed. But the figures of the National Election Survey in 2017 show that, contrary to the government's statement, this is a minority of 38% who believe that a government should always take over the result. On the other hand, it appears that a large majority is in favour of maintaining the consultative referendum. It is the reversed world that this government does accept a minority view but ignores a majority view. And with that, especially those who are less educated, who already have little or no confidence in the Hague politics, are once again deeply disappointed. Does the Minister realize how serious this is? In this context, the 50PLUS Group refers to the report "Between stand" of the Committee on the Parliamentary System, page 13: "The board cannot, of course, meet all (sometimes counter-timely) expectations in society. The disappointment of the electorate is therefore inevitable in some sense. For the sake of confidence in the political and parliamentary system, it is therefore important for citizens to be involved in matters of general interest in other ways than the ballot box. At national level one can learn from the many forms with which experience has been gained at local level. The general interest requires that these forms are as inclusive as possible and not only attractive to highly educated people, for example.' That's what the report says. The broad basis of our democracy lies in social democracy. Can the Minister agree to this and how will this be translated into practice? To take a piece of democracy without putting anything in front of it. If we were to pay the benefit, we would be dissatisfied with the method of implementation or the amount of the benefit. Then no one would have the idea of abolishing aid without replacing it? We would then have to amend the legislation first, wouldn't we? Then why is that not happening in this case, the Minister's 50PLUS Group wants to know. In the further reply, the Minister states: we are in favour of abolishing the consultative referendum, so it is consistent not to allow a referendum on the law that abolishes it. Prime Minister Rutte said it even more clearly at the press conference after the Council of Ministers of 1 December 2017: "We are against referenda, then it is crazy to make this bill referendable." Does this not once again show great arrogance in order to break down all the electorate's views in advance? Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that there is a complete disregard for the fact that the current legislation counts and that, under certain conditions, consultative referendums are possible? So as long as the law is in force, should it still be enforced? In 1968, the GDR was the last country to abolish the referendum. The minister must be a great admirer of the German poet Heinrich Heine, who once predicted that everything would happen 50 years later in the Netherlands, now in 2018 to write in her name that the referendum will be abolished 50 years later in Western Europe. At the same time, the government is giving a high priority to our parliamentary democracy, which is explicitly commended as full-fledged. I recently spoke to a parliamentarians from an Eastern European country, who asked me: Your Head of State, is it elected? No, and do you have any national referenda? No, but do you choose your mayor? No, but you're giving up on your full democracy? I have, of course, fought hard and defended our country by pointing out that, even without consulting the people, we have reached a mayor in Amsterdam and that we have a state committee that is allowed to make and conceal recommendations that it is already clear that they are not going to be implemented. However, deep in my heart, I can imagine that objective outsiders are seriously questioning the fully-fledged parliamentary democracy that we have so highly commended, also knowing that a single vote in our Parliament is taking decisions which the people have not wanted for 50 years and which would be different in the event of a genuine free vote. Does the Minister maintain her view in the reply of 9 May 2018 that the Netherlands is a full parliamentary democracy or does she believe that improvements are necessary? Does the Minister take seriously the view of the State Committee in the report "Betweenstand" that the quality of the substantive representation in the Dutch political system is inadequate? It is characteristic of how the government and this minister deal with the report of the Committee on Parliamentary System, which has been issued under the title Intermediate and not the way the government interprets it as a Resistance. The chairman, Mr Remkes, has shown that he would not now like to withdraw the consultative referendum and his committee is in favour of the remedially binding referendum. Clearly, on page 1 of the reply of 29 June last, the government says that the report does not create a new situation. And well before any discussion can take place, the government puts this on the ground in two ways. The Government considers that both forms of referenda are mutually exclusive......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It adds the conclusion that a majority in favour of the binding referendum is not in sight. In fact, the Minister has already deposited the report in the trash. Can the Minister explain why, in view of this government position, it is still useful for the committee to report further on this issue? In addition to the law, we will also focus on the special role of one of the coalition partners: D66. A party set up to explode the political system and give citizens greater participation. What is at risk now is that a small part of the citizen's participation will be destroyed with a very bizarre argument. D66 led by former group chairman Thom de Graaf as a new Marx, invented a modern version of the Verelendungstheory. The less participation the electorate has, the happier it gets. D66 has become a pure regent party. That started a few years ago in the Upper House. A motion of 50PLUS and the Party for the Animals for the First Chamber, as long as it existed, no longer kicked but directly elected by the citizens, was rejected by D66. D66 wants to abolish the First Chamber, an in itself noble endeavour, but at the moment an unfeasible cause. So not a half egg, but an empty cap. And now no limited participation through an advisory referendum; no D66 wants the currently unfeasible binding referendum. Not a half egg but an empty cap. The display case packed with crown jewelry that D66 displayed at its establishment has been turned into a junk folder full of empty caps. 50PLUS is a party that wants more democracy from the start. Voters and citizens must have more influence and more to say. That was the case with our creation, and that is the case now. This applies not only on paper but also in practice when we have to vote in the Chamber. At D66 you see the opposite. Their voting behaviour has nothing to do with the ideals of the establishment or even the current electoral programme. The less participation the voters have, the happier they become, is at the heart of this new D66-Verelendungstheory. As D66 Minister Ollongren argued: the electorate estranges and is disappointed because the referendum is not binding. That disappointment will remove D66 by abolishing all participation. It's a misdemeanor. A large majority of Dutch voters have been in favour of the referendum for more than 50 years. But the new theory of D66 means: no more listening to what voters want, D66 knows what's good for them. The D66 Group of the European Parliament, or even a single member of it, can prevent this Verelendungstheory from being put into practice in the near future. But then someone must have the courage to go against the iron leadership of the former group chairman, the new Marx Thom de Graaf, and his successor, who is not by chance but historically called English. That would be justified if you took D66's statements seriously. Let me give you a few examples. The rejection of the consultative referendum is largely based on the experience until then: the Ukraine referendum. A number of politicians did not like the result. Only one experience she doesn't like is enough to take away a piece of participation from the voters. But what is in the D66 election programme 2017-2021? "When a new instrument such as the consultative referendum is used for the first time, we embrace it and learn from it. We do not stand as the other parties at the forefront of pleading for the rejection of this renewal." It's in the election program, and D66 promised it to his constituents. Learn from it and don't throw it away. And who is at the forefront of this abolition? The cold D66 minister, who only knows from Hans van Mierlo's fairy-tale books the days when D66 wanted to explode the political system and is flanked by the new Marx and English minister, who stands D66 with the election program tucked away in the back pocket, just in front. Can the Minister explain what it feels like to stand up to your own election promise to abolish a piece of democracy? A second point. Professor Tom van der Meer, Professor of Political Science University of Amsterdam, said on 13 February 2018 in the House of Representatives: "The repeal of the law, and in particular its non-referendum, risks a decrease in confidence in politics and an increase in political cynicism." And what's in D66's election program? "False promises made by politicians feed cynicism. That requires a different behavior from politicians. Only by listening and performing can politics begin to restore confidence in democracy." Where's the D66 that listens? Where are the D66 ministers and roommates who behave differently from the right-wing politicians in The Hague? Unfortunately, a clearer deception is not possible. Doesn't the Minister like this? A third example. D66 preaches the now unachievable abolition of the Senate, but does not want to be directly elected by citizens like 50PLUS in the meantime. D66 does not want a piece of participation through the consultative referendum, but preaches a now unfeasible binding referendum. That is not an effective but a policy of testimony. What does D66 ideology English really think about this? This was said by Vice-President Engels at the 98th party congress of D66 in Utrecht: "I myself am active long enough to know that witness politics in terms of results and authority yield nothing." Yes, Mr President, sometimes D66 has a clear desire that is thwarted by an impotence to make it happen. Fourth example. Thom de Graaf noted on his website: "D66 prefers to give people control over their own future rather than to rely on the status quo. Our innovative ideas are based on people's own choice." But that does not seem to apply to the majority who want an advisory referendum. Then the Regent Party D66 will know what's good for them. Can't there be any hope of this treatment in the First Chamber? There should be hope for two reasons. First of all, the treatment in the House of Representatives, which was obvious and which was aptly summarized by the newspaper Trouw in the headline: "Opposition grills Ollongren about abolishing referendum," a headline that many people will have read with approval, with the exception of the Party for Animals. Secondly, the website of Thom de Graaf, which of course we want to take very seriously. I quote: "The very thing about the Upper House is that we add something to the judgment of the Lower House. Arguments that can make a difference." And again literally: "There is no law being pulled out of the closet to symbolically combat an incident instead of really doing something about the underlying problem." Clear language. Not the Ukraine referendum incident should be leading, but the problem that voters do not feel represented. The underlying problem is that voters feel powerless and think: they do what they want in The Hague. After this list of literal texts and promises from D66, you may ask them to keep their word and promises at one point in this bill! Many D66 candidates have already been quoted on the abolition of the consultative referendum. I'll just mention two. Former MP Boris van der Ham: "The referendum is all we have left." A sad but concise summary. And former political leader Jan Terlouw spoke in Middelburg in February this year about the fact that even on the abolition of the referendum no referendum should be held and whether a simple question could be asked. Jan Terlouw: "I know one thing: are you for or against abolishing the referendum? It can't be any simpler than that. But no, that question's not gonna be asked. I think it's serious. My own party is doing it, our minister. I think it's serious. And so I see democracy weakening everywhere, rather than strengthening." According to Jan Terlouw. An opinion shared by eighteen professors who wrote in the NRC that declaring the law of withdrawal not referendable is a double gap between people's representatives and their supporters. Does the Minister not understand the views of former party leader Jan Terlouw and is this the reason to change her own views? I'd like a clear answer. Conclusion: The voters of D66 are downright cheated. The D66 election programme is written on toilet paper, which is overused by their people's representatives. 50PLUS opposes this course of action and calls on the members of D66 not to be served by group discipline but to be faithful to their founding principles and, above all, to their latest electoral programme. Members of D66 who do not want this repeal law to become a fact. Those who don't accept that this is happening without an agreed law review after three years. They want to wait for the debate on the opinion of the State Committee on Parliament's system of referenda. Those who agree, like Jan Terlouw, that a referendum on abolition should be possible. Those who do not think this is good democratic governance, who do not want the voters to have a policy in which they are never known and whose majority does not want it, and who realize that the political parties in deep crisis have lost their important place by constantly looking for excuses for not giving power out of their hands. 50PLUS wishes to address all D66 members personally. Those who are still hesitant may be helped by the support from their own D66 circle. In the Volkskrant of 30 May, for the first time, hundreds of D66 members called for an organized protest. They believe that their party has strayed from its original democratic ideals by abolishing the consultative referendum. They write: "One of D66's missions is to involve people in politics and to give a voice to discontent and alternative views. "Canals dig to the center of power," the party once called it. That's why we're resisting the conservative reflex that now seems fashionable. The distance between society and politics needs to be reduced, and more democratic participation is needed." Does the Minister understand what the D66 letter writers want or is the Minister himself in need of refreshment leave? The D66-Second MP Rob Jetten emphasizes in the Volkskrant that D66 wants to come up with new proposals for democratic renewal. It is likely that this will be about the correct binding referendum. The State Committee on Parliament's system proposes the introduction of the remedially binding referendum. New shams are already announcing themselves. Apart from the question of the likelihood of a two-thirds majority in both Second and First Chambers agreeing, such a procedure is expected to last between eight and ten years. Jetten says it's a long-term process, but from 1966 onwards it seems more like the proposals are on life support. In any case, this reflection is all the more reason to maintain the current consultative referendum in an improved form and not to do away with it. And in any case, a referendum on abolishing must be possible, say the Refreshers of D66. The chairman of the Committee on Parliamentary System, VVD-prominent Remkes, also indicated that he would not want to abolish the consultative referendum now. What is the reason for this cabinet to want to go against all the democratic forces and the majority of the population? It has been pointed out from all sides that there is an increased sense of powerlessness among voters. Research shows that the lower and middle-aged, including many older people, have less confidence in politics than the higher educated, and that this is further widening the gap. Less democracy is the worst way to fight it, fear is a bad government counselor. Because why are the cabinet and D66 so scared? That the citizens want something different from them? Therefore, should existing political rules be changed to the advantage of politics and to the detriment of citizens? The Netherlands has dropped to the last place in Europe on two points: football and democracy. We are the only country that has no referenda and no elected mayor. And that's what we call a full democracy. Mr. Chairman. We indicated at the beginning why we should pay so much attention to D66. It is about their principles and promises and their special position in this decision. We are counting on their spokesperson, Engels, not only to be prepared on paper, but also to respond initially to this contribution so that we can have a real debate in the second round. But also the VVD senators, who often have good experiences with local referendums, would adorn it if they showed some of their self-thinking. They should also consider that as long as the current law is in force, it should also apply. Surely there must be self-thinking VVD-First Members of Parliament, who do not care what their foreman and perhaps future group colleague advises? VVD senators who do not blindly follow their Lower House party as parliamentary coolies. Or is prominent Remkes the only VVD guy who wants a referendum? On the sidelines, I would like to say how Prime Minister Rutte deals with difficult and almost impossible matters. During his previous cabinet, painful social affairs had to be settled, such as raising the AOW age with all the financial consequences. He managed to play this to the party that had the least on it and had to deny her own program, the Labour Party. The electorate's punishment was unprecedented, poor Jetta Klijnsma. With this cabinet, it's no different. Less democracy against its own election programme. D66 can take care of it. The polls aren't lying. D66 is on heavy loss: from nineteen to thirteen seats. Of course, formatter Rutte didn't mean this in advance. But in politics, there are few coincidences. And anyone who can't resist the magnetic pull of the plush will like to buy the blisters on the seat. Then there's a lawsuit. On 20 June, a hearing took place in the case of the Foundation for More Democracy against the State on the draft law repealing the Advisory referendum Act. The court will rule on this on 1 August, not to be confused with the judgment on 4 July. We have two reasons to ask for a delay in ratifying the law until after the ruling. First of all, there is no urgent argument. Between 10 July and 1 August, there can be no fact that is relevant in this matter. Secondly, for many reasons, we consider it more purer and more careful to wait for that ruling before ratification is final. The government's possible desire to arrive at all stations on 10 July five minutes after the vote in this Senate with an additional edition of the State News should not play any part in this. The government states in its reply of 29 June that it is not up to the government to maintain the ratification on its own. The government thus places the responsibility on the Chamber and we will therefore table a motion for a resolution. We have taken note of the PVV's motion, but our argument is a little simpler and may help some coalition people more easily for that reason. The President shall: Mr Nagel, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Koffeman and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas on 20 June last there was a hearing on the abolition of the referendum before the Hague Court, initiated by the More Democracy Foundation against the State of the Netherlands;]] [[having regard to the decision of the Court of Justice on 1 August;]] [[Whereas there is no urgent reason not to await the court's ruling on 1 August next;]] [[calls on the Government not to ratify an adopted legislative proposal 34854 before the said ruling is known and considered,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u7	We trust that the Minister will not object to this motion with the additional effect that the position we have advocated can only do the name of this government right. I'm rounding up. We strongly urge all senators to reconsider the view of Professor of State Law Wim Voermans that a final vote on the consultative referendum now cuts the pass for the further process on direct democracy and that it removes the mat from the work of the state committee. His view is that making political facts now by a minimal majority on such a controversial and fundamentally democratic issue does not fit in with such a respectable institution. 50PLUS supports this view and hopes that there will be independent and independent thinking members within the coalition parties who will express their opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mrs Huijbrechts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group did not take part in the written preparation of this bill, because we had no questions to the government whose answer was needed for our position on the proposal before us. In dealing with legislative proposal 30372, the own-initiative proposal for a consultative referendum, on 8 April 2014, we have already given and explained that position in advance. I know this very well because I was allowed to speak on behalf of my group, as was Mr Nagel. I did so as an independent, independent, self-thinking VVDer and on behalf of all my independent, independent, self-thinking colleagues in the group. The authors then based their initiative on the assumption that representative democracy has lost legitimacy and that, in our multifaceted and complex society, the elected parliament cannot be regarded as having the mandate of the electorate on all subjects. Citizens would get the feeling of being heard again with referendums. With the initiators, the VVD agreed that the distance between society and politics is a matter of concern, a concern that calls for attention and improvement, but the chosen means, the referendum, was rejected by us for various reasons. It is the fight against symptom without any substantial modification of politics itself, according to the VVD in April 2014. Mr. Chairman. It will therefore not be surprising that the arguments for rejection that we put forward at the time in April 2014 are the same as those in support of the present legislative proposal. It is therefore very tempting to quote from its own work and, in the abolition of the Advisory referendum Act, to reflect on the treatment of its introduction, but that does not bring us much further, because the reason for this experiment, let me put it this way, is not yet off the table. On the contrary! The distance between the electorate and the elected, between politics and society, is widely felt. The need to adapt our parliamentary system and the role, position and functioning of politics in a strongly changing society, as expressed in the discussion of the two referendum laws, were the guiding principles of my speech on 8 April 2014. Then, during the 2015 General Political Reviews, our group leader, Loek Hermans, challenged the Prime Minister in November 2014, to set up a state committee to keep our entire parliamentary system under review. Finally, in January 2016, the Duthler motion laid down that wish here in this Chamber and a year later the state committee considered parliamentary system became a fact. In the meantime, the State Commission has published an interim report on its work which shares a number of ideas, mature and green. They are thinking lines The coherence between them is particularly important. Any change, addition, adaptation in our parliamentary instruments will have to be assessed in this context and assessed for impact. In considering the initiative proposal for the consultative referendum, the government's response at the time was one of them, as the minister also mentioned at the time, "no opposition'. It would not be so bad because, at most, a referendum would be requested every few years. The negative effects are not that bad, according to the Minister in 2015. The Minister's VVD would like to know if she has any ideas as to how to deal with the final report of the State Commission. In what way does it intend to engage in the debate with both society and parliament? Mr. Chairman. It was this Chamber itself that advocated the horizon clause in the law. The legislative proposal at that time was based on the assumption that consultative and corrective referendums could co-exist. Following discussion here, initiators submitted a repair law stating that the consultative referendum would be terminated as soon as the proposal for the corrective referendum was introduced. As a result of this, which was a major part of the debates at the time, it became a de facto temporary law, at the request of a majority in this Chamber. The fact that the initiative proposal for the corrective referendum in the form in which the preliminary ruling was rejected by the Lower House at second reading therefore means that this temporary law, for the VVD, quite rightly ceases to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u10	Can I ask Mrs Huijbregts why she thought it would be a temporary law? In the course of the legislative process, too, it was clearly stated that it was only the question of whether the correct binding referendum would come after constitutional changes and that that provision therefore did not prevent the consultative referendum from having its own effect. This was explicitly mentioned in the debate, both by several Members of Parliament from this Chamber and by the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u11	That's right, but in the repair law, now I'm doing it out of my head, and that's a little tricky with me. This implicitly appoints the finality of the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u12	I don't have to take it out of my head from so long, because I looked it up yesterday. This horizon clause means nothing more than the statement: if there is also a binding corrective referendum in the future, the consultative referendum will lapse. But that's only true in that case. This also means, in my view, that this consultative referendum Act will continue if there is not a binding corrective referendum, or as long as there is no such referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u13	After the discussion in the Lower House at the end of last year, and the decision not to proceed with the second reading of the corrective referendum, the corrective referendum has in any case disappeared temporarily behind the horizon. As far as we are concerned, the basis for the consultative referendum has therefore also expired.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr. Köhler, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u15	Now Mrs Huijbregts refers to the decision-making process in the House of Representatives on the constitutional review in order to allow a binding corrective referendum, but that decision in the House of Representatives is far away after the coalition agreement stipulates that the Advisory referendum Act would be repealed? That can't be the supporting motivation for that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u16	The coalition agreement already mentioned a crumbling consensus and a political majority in favour of the abolition of, or failure to proceed with, the corrective referendum. In that respect, the government had a visionary vision. Finally, Mr President. The expected impact of the initiator at the time was that the referenda gave citizens the feeling of being heard again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u17	I think this is a remarkable argument from Mrs Huijbregts. She says: the binding corrective referendum is out of the picture in the Lower House at the moment, and with that this horizon clause has an effect. But nowhere has it been stipulated that this horizon clause should be accompanied by an imminent proposal for a remedially binding referendum. It is only in case such a proposal would be adopted. Then it doesn't have to hang in the air or be on hand. Could you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u18	My argument is that this Chamber has established the relationship between the consultative referendum and the corrective referendum. That was not originally in the initiative proposal. Here the debate has taken place and, in particular, at the request of the Labour Party, two things have been changed in the repair law: the turnout rate, i.e. the turnout threshold, and the linking of the consultative referendum to the binding referendum. This has highlighted the temporary nature of the consultative referendum. It has always been the intention, through this repair law, that as soon as there was a binding corrective referendum, the consultative referendum would cease to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u19	The problem is that Mrs Huijbregts, that the VVD, simply does not have a clear argument. For at that time it was only decreed that both forms of referenda would not exist side by side...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u20	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u21	... and that does not mean that if there is no initiative for a remedially binding referendum, the consultative referendum could no longer exist. Then temporaryity has simply been postponed to far beyond the horizon, just as long as an initiative for a remedially binding referendum is adopted. As long as that is not in sight, this law does not need to be repealed, there is no need to do so. What would be the point of this need now, and this urgency with which it is now being implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr President, this discussion simply proves that it is an opaque and bad law. The fact that Mr Van Hattem and the PVV have a different interpretation of the addition of Article 1.3 to the VVD is, of course, not surprising, because we have rejected this initiative proposal from the outset.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u23	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u24	That's right. That's right. I have to conclude that the VVD simply cannot put a good argument on the table to support this point and therefore comes with a false reason about the horizon determination. Because that's all it is. So just be honest and just say: as a VVD, we simply don't care about the citizen, we don't care about referendums, and that's what we want off the table. Don't come up with such misconceptions about horizon clauses that have no right in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u25	As we have done with Mr Van Hattem's contribution, I do not want to respond to this. Mr President, finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mr Huijbregts is talking about a horizon clause, but the law also has a very clear horizon clause, namely that it would be evaluated after three years. It was not a legal emergency bandage, it was said: we are going to try this for three years, then we are going to evaluate this seriously and then we can draw conclusions. Does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believe that this evaluation is no longer necessary and that even the legal provision on this can be thrown overboard with the bath water?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr Koffeman was also spokesperson in 2014, so he also remembers how extensive the discussion was then. He also knows what the approach of the VVD was and that we did not like this whole law, also because it rattled on many fronts. It is the legislator who may withdraw the law, the legislator may do so at any time. You say: would it not have been better to wait for the referendum itself to be evaluated? We as VVD believe that we have the right, that it is possible, to withdraw the law earlier. In fact, we believe that this is desirable in order to ensure that the uncertainty does not persist any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u28	Then I would like to ask Mr Schiedon whether such a legal provision does not constitute an important promise to the electorate, namely 'we are going to introduce a law here and we are going to evaluate it in three years' time, you can count on that'. The voter now finds that he can't count on it, so he feels cheated. This increases the distance between citizens and politics. My question to Mr Schiedon was: do you think that repealing that law has made the evaluation completely superfluous?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u29	Yes. I had already said my final words, Mr President. I would just like to say that, as far as we are concerned, it is a matter of courage to note after a few years that where there was a expectation that the referenda would give citizens the feeling of being heard again, that effect was not there and that it was even counterproductive. In this regard, the VVD is modestly in agreement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mrs Huijbregts. I give the floor to Mr Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the House of Representatives talked about this repeal law, it was described as a black day for democracy and it was extensive about the role of D66 as a government party that abolishes its own crown jewels. In this Chamber, my group is keen to support the legislative proposal that is now before us. The members of the Labour Party have been greatly surprised at the lack of support for both the need and the speed of this proposal and the lack of evaluation of previous consultative referenda. Let me begin with the value of an advisory referendum. The Labour Party believes that the influence and involvement of voters in the policy to be pursued should be increased, in addition to our current system of representative democracy. In its interim report, the State Committee also presents this vision and specifically mentions the referendum as an interesting means. The Labour Party is interested in experiments with new forms of democratic involvement. For example, we want more scope for citizens' initiatives at different levels of decision-making, from local to national. We believe that different forms of engagement and direct democracy can be used to strengthen our current democracy and the experience with the current consultative referendum, the subject we are discussing today, can be taken into account. An advisory referendum can help strengthen our democracy. That is why our party, together with GroenLinks, tabled an initiative proposal at the time. This does not mean that this is the only or most ideal means, but it is an interesting tool that can give citizens more influence over their country's policies. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, it is only in connection with a discussion about our entire political system that it is possible to make a good assessment of whether or not to continue the referendum. The opinions and recommendations of the State Committee could therefore be a good basis for discussing the added value of referenda in our system. In its interim report, the State Committee states that the coherence and balance between its different solutions will be further developed in the final report. How does the Minister view this intention of the State Commission? The Government states that it has made the withdrawal proposal independently of the larger picture. We would like to hear the Minister's response on this matter. We understand that the reason for this repeal law is mainly political, but we are surprised at the tunnel reasoning used to explain the need for the repeal law in both the explanatory memorandum and the answers to our written questions. In fact, the cabinet confines itself to two arguments why the law would not work: that it leads to a binding referendum that was just under discussion, but that that is no longer possible, and that it causes alienation among the voters. Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond to both arguments. First of all, the government describes this consultative referendum as a prelude to a binding referendum. However, that was never the intention of the initiative proposal. The consultative referendum can indeed be seen separately from a binding referendum. The Minister refers in the reply to the horizon clause in the law. It's definitely something else. The horizon indicates that a binding referendum is more far-reaching than an advisory referendum; that will not contradict anyone. However, the fact that the consultative referendum is less far-reaching does not mean that it cannot be an isolated law. The government's argument is and remains unfounded. Can the Minister explain again why the consultative referendum cannot have an independent meaning? The second argument concerns the alienation of voters. The government states that the consultative referendum did not bring what was expected of it and that voters were disappointed that nothing was done with the results. My group has many objections to this line of argument, and I am happy to pass on those objections. First of all, the possible disappointment among voters about the impact of an advisory referendum can never be compared to the disappointment that may arise when voters see this means being abolished. Does the Minister not think that the withdrawal of the consultative referendum could also lead to incomprehension and alienation among voters? If not, my group is curious about the Minister's argument. Secondly, the analysis that the consultative referendum did not bring what was expected of it is a very poor and subjective observation. Why didn't it meet the expectations? What expectations did the government have? What expectations have been and which have not been met? It is therefore more objective not to talk about the expectations of the government, but to learn from the experience of a broad and thorough evaluation of the consultative referendum. The Group of the Party of European Socialists regrets that it has not taken place. The government has now only looked at one case, while more experience has been gained with a second referendum and an attempt at a third referendum. Does the government agree with my group that the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act has informed many people about the work of the security services? Does the government's intention to come up with proposals in connection with the referendum to amend the said law on a number of points not reflect the value of the consultative referendum? We would like to hear the Minister's response on these points. The Government shall choose not to attach a scientific evaluation to the withdrawal. The Labour Party considers that such a broader and deeper investigation is necessary. In this we could look at the conditions for referendable subjects, the threshold and the views of different groups of voters. Even if the consultative referendum were to be withdrawn, the results of this evaluation could be included in the discussion on the final report of the State Committee. Does the Minister see the value of such an evaluation? Will she promise to carry it out? Mr. Chairman. Moving in isn't the only option. If something does not meet expectations, it does not immediately mean that it should be abolished. After all, you can change a law. The government states that 40% of voters believe that a result should be carried out one-on-one. The Group of the Party of European Socialists considers this to be an interesting fact and is curious about its significance. Are the voters not sufficiently informed about the consultative nature of the referendum? Or was the complex subject of the Ukraine Treaty not really suitable for a referendum? Or has the threshold for consent been chosen wrongly? Or did the government fail to provide adequate information on EU-Ukraine cooperation during the campaign, we ask the Minister. These are questions to which the answer has not been given and to which we would like to receive a reply from the Minister in this debate. Would it not have been more logical, in the view of the Minister, to change the consultative referendum rather than abolish it on the basis of the answers? Adapting the consultative referendum also seems to be a more political choice, because new legislation takes a very long time. Why throw away old shoes that come back -- which have barely been used yet, when you don't even know if new shoes are coming? A binding referendum as proposed by the State Commission will take years because of the need for constitutional change. What is preventing the Minister from maintaining and improving the current consultative referendum where necessary? Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, the arguments for repealing this law are ill-founded. The government decides to repeal a law which only exists for three years and which has only been invoked once until the date of the present legislative proposal. Why does the Minister decide to withdraw this law when there is hardly any experience of it? The law did not have enough time to gain enough experience and could have developed further. The electorate too has had little time and too few referendums to get used to the consultative referendum. Therefore, it is very premature to abolish this option of democratic renewal once and for all. The government seems to be doing everything it can to guide and implement this law of withdrawal through this Chamber with steam and boiling water. Why this haste, I ask the Minister. In recent months, very little legislation has been passed by the cabinet, and priority will be given to a subject which is still being examined by the State Commission. My group wonders whether the government has also considered temporarily suspending the present legislative proposal. After all, the state committee will be presenting its final report in six months' time, and I am sure that the consultative referendum will also be fully discussed. With this withdrawal, the government seems to be taking an advance on this discussion and thus showing little respect for the work of the committee. I would like the Minister's response on this point. In order to have this complicated social and parliamentary debate on the future of our parliamentary system as well as possible, it is important that all options can be discussed. It can lead to alienation among citizens when the government already has a topic on the agenda in advance. In the view of the PvdA, it is therefore more credible, even if you are against this consultative referendum, to put this law on hold. Has the Minister considered this option? If so, why didn't she choose it? If not, will it consider choosing to do so? Does the Minister agree with us that it is important to organise social involvement around the final report of the State Commission? And does it also see that it can lead to alienation and incomprehension in the electorate if the government excludes one of the subjects even before this discussion has taken place? Finally, I would like to mention the government's decision not only to abolish this law but also to make it impossible to refer to it. In our view, the fact that the government is going so far as to exempt the present proposal from the possibility of a referendum, with a very limited minority in Parliament, is not a test of political and legal purity. As far as political purity is concerned, this reinforces the impression that the government is not interested in the opinion of voters, and that it is mainly afraid of a result that it is not waiting for. This will be felt by many as an increase in the gap between citizens and politics and, precisely, as a result of the alienation that this government is so afraid of. Does the Minister indeed think that if this law becomes referendable, it will prove that a majority of voters are in favour of an advisory referendum? With regard to legal purity, the various experts we had invited here talked about an ugly trick to cut off political opponents by denying them a democratic right. Another claims to see a particularly heavy construction here. Someone else spoke of a not very fancy way of doing things. It may then be legally effective, as the Council of State states, but in the eyes of the PvdA Group, justice and good governance should be about far more than just political effectiveness. How does the Minister view this criticism? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The Labour Party sees the referendum as an interesting tool in our ambition to give citizens more control. At the same time, we see that there are also disadvantages and are open to further discussion on which means works best, but on the basis of a thorough evaluation and in conjunction with our entire political system. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Sini. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The day before yesterday, 1 July, the review of the Advisory referendum Act should have been on the table. There'd be a lot to talk about. Are two referendums in three years much or little? Is the threshold to request a consultative referendum too high if you can only achieve it with active support from a television programme? Is it not better to work with an outcome rate than with a turnout rate, so that a certain percentage of the emperors must have voted against the law in order to get a valid result? We also expect from some sides the question of whether an advisory referendum on international treaties that have already been concluded can work, and whether, in addition to introducing or repealing the law, an advisory referendum should also be an option for amending the law. But such an evaluation provided for in the Advisory referendum Act, the cabinet does not present us at all. In the government agreement of October 2017, the coalition parties agreed, without further discussion with the people or parliament, that the consultative referendum would be abolished. A democratic right for the people, because that is the consultative referendum, is simply being abolished. The government calls it a pass on the spot, but it's a step back. The Netherlands once again joins the very small group of countries from the European Union which do not have any kind of referendum at national level. The government cites two arguments for its proposal, because, yes, it felt obliged to make some arguments. The first is that the consultative referendum failed to meet expectations. That was a conclusion after one consultative referendum had taken place. On the question of whose expectation is not fulfilled, the government comes up with the result of an investigation which shows that a large 38% minority of voters believe that the government should always follow the outcome and therefore these voters will be disappointed if the cabinet decides not to follow a "no." Mind you, this is therefore an interpretation by the government of the opinion of the minority of voters. Verily, there is no firm argument. In addition, the government is based on another electoral inquiry, which shows that 63% of voters believe that the government should listen to the results of the Ukraine referendum. Here we cannot follow the government's reasoning: the government believes that it has listened to the outcome and has responded to the concerns of the majority of voters against the association agreement with Ukraine, thus meeting the electorate's expectations. We have the impression that the government's real argument is that, since we always leave little or nothing to a possible no as a result of an advisory referendum, we will always disappoint the voters and so the referendum does not meet the expectations. According to the SP Group, the answer to this problem is not to abolish the consultative referendum, but to leave us, government and parliament, more at ease with the valid outcome of a referendum. We would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. The government's second argument is that political support for a binding corrective referendum has declined, that it is not going to happen for the time being and that the consultative referendum is therefore no longer a preliminary stage for the binding referendum and can therefore be abolished. In my group's view, this reasoning does not stand, because the legal history of the Advisory referendum Act clearly shows that the law has its own value, regardless of the possible later binding corrective referendum. And that the law states that if there is a binding corrective referendum, these two may not be able to go together anymore, nothing will change that. This has also been clearly expressed by Mr De Graaf, and I quote this legal scholar, on behalf of the D66 Group, in the debate in this Chamber on 8 April 2014, which was both about the legislative proposal for an advisory referendum and about the legislative proposal for a revision of the Constitution in order to allow for a binding corrective referendum. I quote Mr De Graaf: 'My group understands in this way that the initiators see this consultative referendum as a separate instrument, i.e. not related to the decision-making referendum for which there is now a constitutional change. It is understandable that the initiators want to lie at two anchors: if the constitutional reform is not carried out unexpectedly, the consultative referendum is still in place." Mr President, this explanation by Mr De Graaf was also confirmed by the initiators. The argument that the prospect of a binding corrective referendum has been advanced and does not appear to be close, and that therefore the consultative referendum will have to end, is not valid given the legal history. Mr President, the SP is in favour of a binding corrective referendum, in addition to our representative democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr Köhler is right to quote from this original bill as it was before. But the repair bill certainly goes into that link. As regards the entry into force of the Advisory referendum Act, Article 128 is added as paragraph 2: "the law or laws implementing the provisions of the proposal to amend the Constitution which include provisions relating to the corrective referendum shall enter into force or enter into force as soon as paragraph 1A of Chapter V of the Constitution enters into force." Is he saying that the clutch isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u35	No, I don't want to say that, and I didn't say that. However, as I have already tried to clarify in the debate on the interruption I had with Mrs Huijbregts, this link is only to the extent that if there is a remedially binding referendum in the future, after constitutional revision and after legislative revision which is intended to do so, the consultative referendum will lose its function and will expire. But there is not the opposite argument, that if this binding corrective referendum does not arise, the consultative referendum will just as well expire. It just doesn't make sense to draw that out. And the legal history, for example from the quote I just mentioned by Mr De Graaf, also shows that the opposite was the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u36	At the time, in April 2014, corrective and consultative referendums were dealt with jointly and during the discussion I recommend that Mr Köhler re-examine the Acts. That relationship was also mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr President, I have, as I have already said in the course of interrupting, taken a full look at the debates on this subject in preparation for this debate. This strengthens my belief that, although both subjects were dealt with at the same time and that, at the request of the First Chamber, this horizon clause had come into effect, it had no meaning other than in the event of this remedially binding referendum in the future, then the law on the consultative referendum would have to lapse because, in the opinion of the majority of the First Chamber, the two would not go well together. But it has also been said at that time: if that second is not achieved, then we still have to quote almost literally Mr De Graaf, who is the law on the consultative referendum, which then continues. So I would really advise Mrs Huijbregts to re-examine the logic of the reasoning in this matter. I think she will come to the same conclusion as our group. I hear now that this is vain hope, but no, I never give up hope that my colleagues will eventually come to the most logical conclusion even after further examination. Mr President, if I hadn't had that hope, I wouldn't be delivering any more input here in an attempt to convince others! Mr. Chairman. I was only concerned that we are in favour of a binding corrective referendum, in addition to our representative democracy. We can also see that some of those who support it sometimes disappear and sometimes come back to it at other times. And we assume that the debate on this will resurrect after the State Committee will advise parliamentary system in its final report to arrive at a binding corrective referendum. But the SP Group sees no reason to abolish the democratic right of the people to an advisory referendum, without alternative, in this debate. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the articles of law which give retroactive effect to the repeal of the Law on the Consultative referendum, so that the referendum on the repeal of the law is blocked. According to most of the legal scholars we have heard about it as a First Chamber, we have written a separate hearing for it. These articles of law are not unlawful. According to a few, but most say: they are not unlawful, but many say that they do not testify to good governance and are described as tricks. The motivation of the cabinet is, in our opinion, very weak on this point. It makes sense that if the legislator wants to get rid of the consultative referendum, you will not have a consultative referendum on it. But that does not make any sense at all: all consultative referendums are about rejecting a law that the legislator has just deliberately decided to. In fact, the government says that this point from the coalition agreement is so harsh that we will continue to do so even after a possible rejection by the electorate in an advisory referendum. And there the circle closes: from the beginning to the end, the coalition and the government do not want to take any interest in the opinion of the people on this bill. It begins with the fact that the parties who want to abolish the consultative referendum do not reach a majority in the Lower House election. Then, in the negotiations on the D66 coalition agreement, it is persuaded to go along with this abolition in exchange for... Yeah, for what? The legislative proposal is then explained by the inadequate reasoning that the consultative referendum did not bring the population what it expected from it. And then the people will be denied the opportunity to express their opinion by means of a consultative referendum. All in all, I qualify this procedure in such a way that the rules of parliamentary democracy are formally followed, but it is certainly not democratic. Let us compare that with the next statement by Mr De Graaf in the debate mentioned earlier. I quote him again: 'Sometimes, however, the outcome of the parliamentary decision-making process may have become subject to political deals in which no voter can recognize himself anymore. In those margins of parliamentary democracy, in which representation has become subordinate to the laws of topicality or political power, the corrective referendum can provide a solution." It is as if Mr De Graaf has foreseen the current situation. There is every reason to allow a referendum on this repeal law. I therefore ask the Minister once again to amend the law to that effect. Minister, come up with a novella in which the legal tricks, Articles V and VI of the law, are deleted. If the Minister is prepared to do so, I ask her. Finally, another question to the Minister. This bill, in particular the point of retroactive effect, lies with the court. He gives a ruling on July 4th and August 1st. Will the Minister promise that the government will not allow the law to enter into force until the judge has given his ruling? With a commitment from the Minister, both Mr Van Hattem's motion and Mr Nagel's motion, which we agree with, would be superfluous. But even more importantly, this would prevent both the electorate and the judge from being sidelined. My group looks forward to the Minister's reaction, hoping that this debate will lead to a democratic attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. After a deafening experience with the first referendum under the direction of the referendum law, the conclusion was that this was not possible quickly. That referendum was abused in order to achieve targets that were only partially related to the subject of the referendum and nevertheless produced a valid negative result. So half of the Netherlands was disappointed by the damage that could be done with such a referendum. However, with an enlightening statement from all the EU states concerned, the association agreement with Ukraine was also ratified by the Netherlands, so that another part of the Netherlands was disappointed, this time because of the feeling that the referendum was not enough. The referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act got a more balanced and acceptable outcome in my opinion, and then the announced referendum on the Donor Act failed due to a lack of signatures, which proved that Dutch people do not always see reason for a referendum. Despite this rather reassuring experience, the coalition has decided to put an end to this experiment and withdraw the referendum law. With, in fact, two arguments. The first is that, under the current circumstances, the consultative referendum no longer seems to be able to serve as a stepping stone to a decisive referendum. Indeed, that observation does not seem to be incorrect in itself. Secondly, the consultative referendum seems too risky for the participants to be disappointed. Indeed, the way things are going with the Ukraine referendum is evidence of this. The conclusion from the electoral inquiry that the majority of voters want a negative outcome of a referendum to be responded to by the government with the repeal of the relevant law, and that even those who voted "in favour" do not understand the possibility that the government might ignore the outcome of a referendum. This means that the advisory nature is inherently the great risk of disappointment. The government's argument is right in itself. I am not very much in favour of referenda. The representative democracy gives a safer assessment of a somewhat abstract or complex problem than the easier-to-manipulate referendum. This means that referenda on local or even provincial decisions that generally deal with more concrete, more accessible, more visible matters can be a nice form of direct democracy, but that when decisions are taken by the national authorities and also by Europe, a referendum is less useful. Some decisions, for example the donor law, are so concrete and so directly affecting everyone that a referendum could have made sense. Anyway, there was not enough need for that. Despite my not very positive attitude towards national referendums, it has to be noted that we are not in a zero situation. We have a referendum law, which in a number of respects certainly did not bring what some had expected of it, but which is the chosen vehicle for direct participation. Putting that aside is a brutal procedure, which raises resistance, witnessing just the hundreds of e-mails we've been getting over the last few days. So the most obvious question is: has the government, have the coalition parties, not thought about whether with a more limited intervention, an adjustment rather than withdrawal, not been a good and less misunderstandingable result? A limitation of referenda where in any case negotiated agreements are excluded with several powers or an adaptation of the validity standard to a requirement of a certain percentage of the total number of voters, for example? The first is obvious because such a treaty is difficult to reparable, if it is already clear what needs to be repaired. The second is sensible because the overrule of a decision taken by the two chambers of parliament must be possible only in the case of a very strong resistance from the people. They are only possibilities, but the question is whether the government has seriously considered such an alternative approach and, if so, why it has not opted for it. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. With regard to giving retroactive effect to the withdrawal in order to prevent a referendum on the repeal law itself, I can follow the government's reasoning. However, allowing a referendum on this withdrawal could also lead to a government response similar to the reaction to the WIV referendum, i.e. an adjustment rather than a withdrawal. If I ask the Minister to reflect on this, it will of course be in line with the previous question on adaptation as such. But also when it comes to preventing a referendum on this law, it remains a fact that a court ruling is expected in August, precisely about that referendability. And the fact that there does not seem to be any urgency for a superficial observer for the entry into force of this law raises the question of why the government apparently does not want to wait for that with the ratification of this law. The government has good arguments, so why not give time? I would also like to hear the Minister on this. Finally, Mr President, the future. The Remkes State Commission is proposing a binding referendum. Apart from the fact that there is no great risk of such a referendum, such a referendum may be less likely to be disappointed, but if there are not all kinds of meaningful restrictions, there is also a greater risk of irreparable damage. This is not a lack of confidence in the opinion of the population, but an assessment of the complexity of certain decisions and the lack of clarity of their consequences. The Swiss Government knows how to talk about it to its great sadness. I would like to reiterate the main conclusion to the Minister: would a different approach not have been better to avoid both the disadvantages of the system and the unrest over the abolition of the system? I'd like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Who is opposed to strengthening the democratic rule of law? A rhetorical question, we cannot judge the value of our democracy and our rule of law sufficiently high. Dutch democracy is characterised by the representative system. There is no electoral threshold and it is easy for new parties to join in elections. A special characteristic that is distinctive and the journey does not go far across the border to see what the added value of our system is. The Christian Union Group cherishes this Dutch system and the area for minorities in the democratic debate. It was one of the important arguments in my colleague Kuiper's contribution to the discussion of the Advisory referendum Act. The turnout at Lower House elections is high, and so the four-yearly elected House of Representatives is a good reflection of what the Dutch people want. Those representatives have no problem voting, but precisely that is where the Consultative referendum passed. Because what do you do as a people's representative in a valid result that is different from your beliefs, when the turnout was lower than in the previous elections? Whatever you choose, it wrings. We've seen the disillusionment in some after the referendum results. I also spoke to potential voters who were not going to vote for the referendum in the hope that the turnout would not be reached. There we have the second problem with the current instrument: before those in favour went to the ballot box, they first considered whether the threshold for entry was wise. Such unfortunate design leads to different results. Finally, it appeared that the Ukraine referendum for the drivers was not about Ukraine at all. The aim was to stress the Dutch participation in the European Union. Mr President, as you may imagine, the experience of recent years has not changed my group's views on the instrument of a consultative referendum, nor on the individual responsibility of the representatives of the people, who wield it. Moreover, at the time of the submission of this law, there was also an initiative proposal that specifically provided for the amendment of the Constitution. That was not the case in the end, and we believe that the government is right to call for the repeal of this bill. But isn't there a problem? Is our democratic rule of law perfect, then, to run through a ring? I do not come from a tradition that only refers to the positive side of life, and that also applies to democracy. Yes, on the international comparative lists, the Netherlands scores very well on satisfaction with democracy, but anyone who dives deeper into the figures and, for example, takes on the citizens' perspectives of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, finds that there is varying confidence. The planning agency points out that the low-skilled, or perhaps the practically skilled, electorate, experience a greater distance from the parliament. This group of voters appreciates the referendum as an instrument more than other voters. The Christian Union Group considers this to be an important point of attention. The Minister stated in his speech in support of this law that the step towards the corrective referendum is out of the picture. I understand that entirely in the light of the vote in the House of Representatives on the Van Raak initiative proposal last autumn, but at the same time I note that the corrective referendum is going to be a kind of emergency brake, with all kinds of details to be filled out and buts and considerations which I can imagine as well, while the state committee is still studying. I would like to hear a further reflection from the Minister on this point. And to give a small advance on my part, I would like that corrective referendum to be rejected, despite all the objections I have and although I do not know whether it is really sensible, precisely because I am cherishing our representative democracy, because that state committee is working. I would like to point out that we are failing in reality if we now say that it is a miracle tool that will restore the confidence of the low-skilled electorate, because it remains here that participation is still relatively less than that of higher-educated voters. However, it is an improvement compared to other forms of democratic participation. This requires further reflection, both on trends in this area and on ourselves, for example in the way political parties organise themselves. But also think about the scaling up of municipalities. What does that do with the distance between citizens and city council members? On that last point, Mr President, this is really a teaser, and I hope to speak to the Minister next week. But I would also like to hear how the Minister picks all this up in the light of the State Commission, when it presents its findings. Mr President, back to the legislative proposal before us. In substance, my group can support the withdrawal, but there are still a few questions about the drafting of the legislative proposal. Until a month ago, the exciting question was whether there might be a referendum on the Donor Act. In the end yesterday it appeared that there were insufficient signatures collected. The possibility of a referendum was maintained earlier because this Chamber indicated that it did not want to be involved in some kind of race. I asked the Minister in the written round, when that tension field still existed, whether getting the number of signatures while the time limit for retrieving had not yet expired would still be sufficient reason to give way to a referendum. The Minister followed the letter of the law: no referendum. How does she look at that now? Does this teach us lessons for other common situations, where the introduction of a new bill can benefit from a little empathy of the legislator in others? Is it not wise to be more generous with the right of transition? Mr President, I come to the pièce de résistance of this bill: the double lock on the door to rule out a referendum on the bill itself. Legally effective, the Council of State ruled. The politicians who sat in this house at the expert meeting at the minister's place were united not amused, mildly said. State law scholars exchanged views on the design, but agreed that this could be done legally. Let that be established, too. A later law may amend an earlier law, and that principle also applies here. That does not immediately make it a nice piece of legislation. I would therefore ask the Minister to explain once again why she considers it valuable that the construction of retroactivity is included in this bill. Does this have to do with the government's substantive considerations regarding the instrument of consultative referendum? Speaking for myself, I must confess that as a representative of the people I belong to a movement which still has serious reservations about the instrument, even in the case of a majority vote for the consultative referendum. That is also an argument, but is that the conviction of this government? The question also arises as to whether that argument is significant enough to include the retroactive force structure in the legislative proposal. I would also like to hear how the Minister weighs the issue of legal certainty in this respect. Mr. Chairman. Without a critical voter, no healthy democracy. My group has thus had its reserves in setting up the State Commission, but precisely in the search for instruments that contribute to a stronger representative democracy, which appreciates that value, we are very curious about the results of the committee. The Minister has chosen to abolish the consultative referendum in anticipation of the findings of this committee. I fully understand the content of this, but it is regrettable that we cannot now talk about good opportunities that contribute to strengthening our representative democracy, national, provincial and local. I therefore hope, on behalf of my group, that the Minister will come forward with good plans and fantastic legislative proposals on this very point in the course of her term of office. I am happy to give her this as an encouragement at the end of this contribution and look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. A debate about the emperor's beard. That could unfold in this house today if dualism loses it from coalition agreements, if we come here not to a free and independent weighting of the quality of the legislation before us, but to slavish imitation of a dictatorship as laid down in the coalition agreement. One does not need to be a prophet in order to predict that in that case there will be a small majority in favour of abolishing the consultative referendum. On the basis of the electoral programmes, and give the electorate who opts for them wrongly and according to what has been promised by the parties in this house and on the other side of the Binnenhof, there is a large majority in the States-General for maintaining the referendum, but through the coalition agreement a minority is imposing abolition. An example of how representative democracy does not function properly in the current system. That is not my conclusion, but that of Boris van der Ham, a prominent member of D66 and one of the spiritual fathers of the consultative referendum, who could be buried next week if not without a burden, but according to the lines of the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. In 2005, the Netherlands was one of the five countries around the world that had never held a national referendum. In 2015, Boris van der Ham of D66 filed an initiative law with two other members to enable the referendum to be held for a long time. Boris van der Ham is still very much in favour of the referendum, but now Minister Ollongren wants to carry it today with steam and boiling water. Boris van der Ham said about this at the time of the discussion in the House of Representatives: "The House of Representatives is debating the abolition of the consultative referendum without alternative, without evaluation and without waiting properly for the state committee. It is inappropriate to deal with a democratic tool of citizens in this way." The abolition has already been achieved in the coalition agreement and will not become a free issue as was the D66 donor law. In the meantime, we have held two referendums. The advice of the population was in both cases: no. So Rutte III decided to stop asking the population in the meantime. Rutte III abolishes the referendum immediately, without making it referendable. This is done through a tricky trick of an alleged urgency. This while no one sees or can explain the urgency, not even the minister. So much for the participatory society. We would be the first democratic country to abolish the referendum. Only East Germany in the GDR era has previously made this anti-democratic change. Thanks to D66 and a non-free mood in this house of reflection, that is what awaits us now. The four parties, three of which have included the word "democracy" in their party name, bear the last piece of citizen's confidence in politics. It is very worrying that the law on the withdrawal of the consultative referendum with a debatable legal trick should enter into force immediately in order to prevent it from becoming referendable. What's the rush? The Advisory referendum Act would be reviewed after three years; this summer. The state committee parliamentary system which would examine democracy and the future of the consultative referendum could not be expected. Why not? As far as my group is concerned, the Minister has not yet given an answer. The Minister himself is very convinced but does not convince. Did D66 permanently lose her democratic feathers? Four times in the past, D66 rule has been directly followed by halving, stripped of all its ideals and with broken electoral promises and in such existential need that the party repeatedly called for lifting. From the desire to be connected with the citizen to total blindness. The 44 people who founded D66 on 24 October 1966 in the basement of advertising agency FHV put the emphasis on democratisation of society and on a new party system. In addition, the new party stressed spiritual freedom and individual development. This spiritual freedom and individual development is precisely the mirror image of what is now being taken away from those who advocate a referendum. It is unbelievable that people who have ever joined D66 because of the ideals of political renewal, of which the referendum was one, should now vote against their own ideals when they represent their party in the Second or First Chamber of the States General because of coalition agreements and a minister who does not seem to be of more participation and political renewal. D66 turns the clock back for fear of the citizen and his opinion. "Politics is not for scared people," is a beloved statement by Alexander Pechtold. It is very much a question of where the sudden motivation comes from to put democratic achievements, such as the consultative referendum, first and foremost in the dirt, without waiting for the evaluation and advice of the State Commission and without the alibi of a corrective referendum in which the party claims to see more. An empty cap, as Mr Nagel rightly pointed out. The Rutte III government agreement states that the consultative referendum would not have brought what was expected of it. A bold theorem that is not supported in any way. There is clearly sufficient self-cleaning capacity: the envisaged referendums on the Hills Act and the Donor Act did not come due to lack of declarations of support. What is the reason for this patronage of abolishing the consultative referendum without any electoral support and without giving the electorate the right to decide on it in an advisory referendum? What's the rush? What committee of wise men has made a clear assessment of this in which a justification for abolition can be found? Although in both the referendums, the first on the European Constitution and the second on the trade treaty with Ukraine, the government neglected the outcome of the referendum and then pushed through the original plan, 90 out of 150 Chamber seats were held in the last elections to parties that had an electoral promise: minimum maintenance of the consultative referendum. According to research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, 70% to 80% of the Dutch population still wants the real, correctively binding referendum to be introduced. The disappointment over the referenda was mainly with the politics themselves, which the citizens did not get the desired mandate for far-reaching proposals such as the European Constitution or the Ukraine Treaty. Precisely in a political climate characterised by compromises, the exchange of broken election promises and the denial of your ideals, referenda are needed. It's a reality check that politics can't miss. Theodore Roosevelt said: "I believe in referenda, not to destroy the representative system but precisely to correct it when it is no longer representative." That's where we are now. Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that it seems that there is political match fixing, the making of agreements in exchange for other agreements, an artificial impression of dualism which is the hallmark of a living democracy, despite which I would very much like to list the reasons for maintaining the referendum, even if only for posterity, so that in the Acts it becomes apparent that the abolition of the referendum was not necessary or urgent but was part of a political trade between parties willing to exchange everything, even their own ideals and their own political right to exist. As we saw last week in the climate agreement compromise, which is supported from left to right but offers no prospect of achieving the objectives set out in the Paris climate agreement. Anyway, we have an agreement. I would like to go through with you the advantages of maintaining the consultative referendum. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau reports that 70% to 80% of Dutch people have been calling for the introduction of the corrective referendum for decades. According to a poll by Maurice de Hond, two thirds of the Dutch want to keep the consultative referendum. As I said, the citizens voted by majority in the last parliamentary elections, 90 out of 150 seats, on political parties that promised to support the consultative referendum in their election programme. The Lower House therefore has no intrinsic democratic mandate to abolish the referendum. That is why citizens must be able to express their views directly on the abolition of the referendum. The judge will rule at the request of More Democracy and I would like to know from the Minister whether she is prepared to postpone the introduction of the law until the judge's judgment is known. The government agreement does not include any referendum on the abolition of the referendum. It is therefore a free subject for coalition parties. Can the Minister make it clear whether any pressure has been exerted on the government groups to vote according to group discipline, i.e. by burden? The law gives citizens the right to request a referendum. To prevent a referendum on the referendum, the cabinet now resorts to a romantic interpretation of the law, which is described as legal magic, unlawful and illegal by not the least: Professor Wim Voermans. The cabinet says that the consultative referendum was intended for a binding corrective referendum and that, now that this binding referendum has been removed, it is logical to abolish the consultative referendum as well. That's not true, and it doesn't make any sense. The authors of PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks have been clear from the outset that the consultative referendum is an independent instrument, precisely because it was taken into account that the binding referendum would never, or at least not reach the required two-thirds majority in the foreseeable future. The fact that the boat is not ready for departure should not be a reason to bring in the ramp but fast. That reeks of sabotage of democratic renewal, by D66 in any case, set up to make such a renewal possible. Unacceptable for Jan Terlouw, one of the, let's say, consciences of the party. It is legally stipulated that the referendum law will be reviewed by the House of Representatives three years after its entry into force, i.e. next summer. It's obvious to keep those appointments. After two referendum experiences, which are not for everyone that their results have been perceived as unsatisfactory, it seems that the cabinet wants to change the law during the competition. A form of state-law hooliganism that has not yet been shown in the Netherlands. In January 2017, the government set up the state committee of parliamentary inquiry to advise on the future of democracy including the consultative referendum. The final report of that committee should logically be awaited prior to far-reaching and premature legislative changes such as these. The evaluation promised to the electorate by law should also be carried out, even if Mr Huijbregts puts it aside with a word. Only in the GDR has the referendum been abolished after it has been introduced previously. There are many healthy representative democracies who do know the referendum. The cabinet has in no way made it clear why the consultative referendum should be speeded up in our country in particular, other than that it has been agreed. It resembles the abolition of the dividend tax, tax rotations with Shell and cheating off a cremation society of senior members for far too little money. It has been agreed, it is not just, but well, we have done so and this is it. The cynicism and distrust of the population in relation to politics are fueled by the abolition of the referendum, argues Professor Tom van der Meer of the University of Amsterdam. Can the Minister once again try to explain to us how she disagrees with him? The referendum puts an emergency brake on the people to correct or adjust the legislator in the meantime if that population disagrees in large numbers with the parliament which, for example, has been driven away from the electorate by compromises and coalitions. That last statement was presented to us by Alexander Pechtold, who at the time thought differently than his minister is doing. Can the Minister state in what way she disagrees with this earlier statement of her political leader whether the political leader of her party? Mr. Chairman. A group of prominent members of D66 feel abandoned by their own party in terms of the planned abolition of the referendum. Yesterday we received from them a compelling letter calling for attention to be paid to a number of considerations. The group, which represents hundreds of members of D66, and which are more than the party had left in 1974 after the stormy early years, is concerned that the desire for greater participation is increasingly being called for. These critical members of D66 want this destructive contradiction to be broken. More participation is needed not only for the support of decisions, but also because citizens' ideas can make a very good contribution to the quality of policy, the critical D66s write in their open letter. In the coalition agreement Trust in the future, the Dutch Parliamentary Groups of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion have agreed to abolish the national consultative referendum. This is justified by the experience with only one single application of this instrument, namely the referendum on the Association Treaty with Ukraine. The coalition agreement concluded that the consultative referendum did not bring what it was expected to do as an interim step because of the controversy over the manner of applications and different interpretations of the outcome. It is remarkable that D66 is abandoning one of the areas of democratisation which it has acquired. The critical members of D66 consider it inappropriate to take away an instrument from citizens without a proper evaluation or any form of participation. The chairman of the Parliamentary System Committee, Johan Remkes, party colleague of Mrs Huijbregts, also made a comment on this during the presentation of his interim report on 21 June. He said: I do not think that a consultative referendum is very happy because there are looming errors in it, but I think that filing a repeal law in anticipation of the evaluation is a bit forced from the point of view of a proper administrative political process. That observation was made earlier by the experts who were heard in this house on 27 March, warning of further damage to confidence in politics. The current referendum law is described by the Cabinet as not ideal. In any case, the pros and cons will have to be taken into account in the evaluation of the law that has already been mentioned, which the cabinet clearly does not want to wait and which, according to some colleagues, will not even take place anymore. Sad but thankful, no home visits, no flowers, end of story. The cold funeral of what once was a crown jewel. Mr. Chairman. Abolishing a law without prior evaluation is neither careful nor proper. The government's choice not to make the law of withdrawal referendable with an emergency grip does not fit in an adult relationship with the citizens. Moreover, it is precisely our Chamber that has ensured that the Parliamentary System Committee is currently working on a broad opinion on the future of our political system. It is reasonable to wait for those results as well. The abolition of a democratic tool of citizens can only be justified if something better is substituted for it. As long as this tangible alternative is missing, the consultative referendum should at least not be deleted, but improved. I very much agree with the members of Refreshment. I would ask the Minister to take seriously her party colleagues and the electorate and not to take away from the citizen one of the few corrective mechanisms available to that citizen. There must be a reasonable alternative, I ask the Minister. "The reasonable alternative," it once appeared on posters of the minister's party. Nowadays, the slogan is "Now forward." Well, a democratisation movement that stumbles over its own legs, denies its own origins and wants to forget that again as soon as possible. I look forward to the Minister's answers to these questions with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
