ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the first term of the Secretary of State for the continuation of the debate on the Tax Plan Package 2019 and the Implementation Act of the First EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive. I would ask Members to take their place. I welcome the Secretary of State for Finance, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u2	I asked the Secretary of State if he would first outline what his approach is and what cups he is going to deal with in his first term. I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As is customary with these kinds of large packages of legislative proposals, I thought it would be useful if I didn't pass everything by technical legislative proposal, but that I would create a thematic group in a number of clusters. The first is the cluster burger. That's actually the bulk of the Tax Plan 2019. The second block will be about business and everything we do for it. The third block will deal with the fiscal greening measures we have proposed. The fourth block, the most colourful block, is the other block. It goes too far to sum up what is being discussed here, but I am trying to answer a lot of questions that have arisen after the legislative consultation. That is the order of my response today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u4	A number of amendments have also been tabled. Do you want to take it directly by block, where relevant, or at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u5	In principle, I will only take it with me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u6	In the second term, thank you very much. I think there is a question from Mrs Leijten. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u7	Other items are likely to include the anti-tax avoidance directive or will it be dealt with separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u8	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u9	Everything we do around ATAD is part of the story about what we do for the business climate and what we do for tax evasion. So that's not exactly what I'm doing in the end. I could have dealt with the Tax Plan first, but I saw that there are actually doubles and then I thought it would be better to do it as one block, but not quite at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to begin his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me say once again that it is once again a great pleasure to discuss with you in the Chamber tonight the seven legislative proposals we have prepared in the 2019 Tax Plan and also the bill ATAD, the anti-tax avoidance directive. In total, therefore, eight legislative proposals, which also implement an important part of the coalition agreement. I will, as I have just said, answer the questions that have arisen on a block basis, but first of all I would like to thank Members for the interesting questions that have been put to me both during the written consultation and during the legislative consultation we have had. There were a lot of them. It really is a comprehensive package of legislation, and it is right that many questions have been asked. That is not without reason either, because, as I have just said, for the fiscal side, this is at the heart of the plans announced by the cabinet in the coalition agreement Trust in the future. In line with my previously published fiscal policy agenda, I want to focus today on the legislative proposals that will focus on the following five priorities. Firstly, the reduction of the burden on citizens, and then all the plans that are good for the Dutch locational environment and for all the real economic activities in our country. The third block is about the much-needed further greening of our tax system. The fourth block is about combating tax avoidance and evasion. All these priorities are consistently at the forefront of the implementation of legislation by my department, but also the comprehensibility of legislation for citizens. Let me start with the relief. It is clear that it has also been cited several times by the government that Dutch people will notice in their wallets that the economy is doing well. The combination of the measures in the Tax Plan Package 2019 increases purchasing power for all groups, but mostly for middle-income workers. This is achieved by reducing the burden on labour and introducing the two-wheel system, with a basic rate and a top rate for high incomes. This system is similar to the current system, but more favourable for households with only one working partner. This aspect has often been highlighted in our discussions. The cabinet increases the general tax discount, so that low-income people can also benefit from economic growth. The reduction in labour costs is partly achieved by increasing other taxes and by reducing the rate at which some deductions can be taken into account. Think, for example, of the mortgage interest rate deduction. The cabinet also shifts the burden on labour towards consumer charges by increasing the low VAT rate. This slide, all in all, I think is wise. A tax on consumption distorts the choices of Dutch people less than a tax on labour and is therefore good for economic growth in our country. It is also important to invest in the public sector: education and infrastructure. A number of your Members of Parliament have also made this clear. We believe that this is important, not only for the sector, but also for the Dutch climate of location. It has good effects on it. In addition to measures that reduce the burden on citizens and businesses, the cabinet invests in society by increasing spending. I would like to emphasise this point once again. This is good for the locational environment, which is much wider than taxation, as rightly pointed out. Companies also make investments in the Netherlands because of the high level of their public services. As has been said, the present package is also good for the locational environment of real economic activities. So it is not only good to lure companies from outside to the Netherlands or to make the Netherlands attractive to them, but also to help companies that are already active in the Netherlands, large companies and small companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u12	No "thank you" to the Secretary of State, because we're just going to start again with what we actually started three days ago: a whole story about burden relief. That same trick is constantly being pulled out, and I thought we were done with it, after there was a generous admission in committee last week that there was an increase in the burden on citizens. Now I hear another three or four times the word "charge relief." One more chance: can you indicate whether there will be a reduction in the burden or an increase in the burden for citizens this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr Mulder is asking a little about the familiar road. After all, we have had this discussion once or twice. The point is that I am currently presenting a package of measures, proposals from this cabinet. On balance, these are burden relief measures. We can talk for a very long time about the underlying basic path and that the citizen may not experience it that way. That's because he doesn't know what's in this cabinet or was in the previous cabinet. That is precisely why we have said: on balance, this will lead to an increase in the burden for the citizens of 100 million in the coming year. If you look structuralally, you do see relief. In fact, some parts of that load relief were promised before 2042. The fact that we are already giving this relief will be seen by the average citizen as an important, acceptable and pleasant gift. That is what we discussed with the Chamber. I'll tell you more about the loads later. If Mr Mulder wants to know more about this, we are going to talk about the 6.5 billion. Mr Azarkan also asked for this. So we're really gonna get back to it. This was the general story about what the cabinet is doing with the legislative proposals before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u14	Let me see if Mr Mulder thinks this is enough for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u15	Actually, I do. They are a lot of friendly words, but in the meantime it is clear that there is a burden increase this year. I understand that it is difficult to admit, but it is very clear to everyone who is watching: next year there will be a burden increase for the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u16	But that is not because of the plans that I am presenting here, because they lead to an overall reduction in the burden, a significant reduction in the burden. That's why I'm bringing that news again. I would have stayed with the location climate. It must be important that large and small companies feel at home in the Netherlands and can be successful. By reducing the Vpb rate, companies and investments in the Netherlands become more attractive. And by reducing the burden on labour, it becomes more attractive to employ people, which is not insignificant. We also encourage innovation, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, by extending the Wbso, for example. That does not mean that the cabinet, as some in the Chamber sometimes want to believe, participates in a race to the bottom. The reduction of the Vpb tariff is part of a broader package in which the basic broadening in the same Vpb is equally important. So it's not a gift, but a shift from high rates with a lot of base narrowing to low rates with a broader base. This is done, among other things, by the measures in the ATAD bill, the anti-tax abuse bill proposals, and also, for example, by reducing the loss relief. This broadening of the basis is also largely raised by the large enterprise, which was also a demand. The proceeds of the basic broadening will then be used to reduce the rate and about half of this tariff reduction will also go to SMEs. So, under the lines of the measures presented by this cabinet, there is a burden development that is more favourable for SMEs than for large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten. I did not agree with you on a number of interruptions, but, as in the first term, I would like to agree with you that they are just short interruptions. Then we don't have to set a limit to that either. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u18	You know: we are like wash in your hands. The Secretary of State claims that the Netherlands does not participate in the tax war that is so desired by large companies, because then they can shop and settle where they pay as little tax as possible. That is, of course, untrue. The Netherlands has been a tax haven for years! We are going to a much lower rate on the income tax than in the neighbouring countries. That's just obvious. But if the Secretary of State so badly wants multinationals to simply pay taxes, why do they even get compensation for the fact that they're probably going to pay more taxes? Why does he implement that law implementing those international rules, then in such a way that the Netherlands will become the new paradise, because we don't opt for "I'm sorry," chairman "I'm the strictest model A"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u19	I'm always excited when people start talking about the models in the ATAD guidelines. We are going to talk about this in detail, but I would like to make this point already. What the Netherlands is doing is not implementing the minimum required by Europe, because we are going to sit well above that. That has nothing to do with model A or B. I will explain again on which fronts we are all doing more than the directive requires of us. And the image that the Netherlands is trying to position itself again as a country where a flowing activity is desirable or acceptable, I hope to have been able to take away with all my plans. When it comes to tackling mailboxes and tackling the flow through the Netherlands without real economic activity, we have set a firm agenda. That agenda is not only found firm by me, but fortunately also by the international commentators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u20	We still have to get those proposals. But even about the flow of interest rate royalty and dividend it is said to be a bit moderate. My question is like another one. The Secretary of State says he's not in that tax war. The tax rates on profits are considerably lower than in the neighbouring countries, and we are knowingly choosing a different model to combat tax avoidance than the countries around us. How am I supposed to see that? How am I supposed to interpret that? If this Secretary of State does not want our country to be used by large companies to pay as little profit as possible, then he does not reduce that income tax so much and then makes sure that the door to the route through the Netherlands is closed and not open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u21	However, I would like Mrs Leijten to say that I have just made a speech which shows that the burden on large companies is increasing on balance. On the one hand, we are presenting fundamental measures, which are mainly paid for by the large company you are talking about and which, apparently, you are not very interested in. That may and can be done, but for that we are doing a fundamental broadening. Next we give the Vpb reduction to all companies in the Netherlands, both large and small. Then you can't say: this cabinet is mainly trying to make it attractive to large business. It just isn't. On balance, the measures we are taking for businesses under the lines are more favourable to SMEs than to Vpb. And we are going to limit the transit activities by doing something that many of us around us don't have at all, namely introducing a withholding tax on interest and royalties. You can say there isn't one yet. That's right, because we're going to transpose it into legislation next year. We expect a great deal of that and we are going to do very, very much about it. So I hope that I will at least get some support for that, because it is important that we do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u22	It is about the laws that are before us today, and then the Secretary of State claims that the Netherlands does not participate in the race down. No, the Netherlands is under in that race! It says to all these companies: yoo-hoo, here you have to be, here you pay the least profit tax; yoo-hoo, here you have to be, because here you can make constructions to pay as little profit tax as possible through business constructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u23	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u24	It's not just participating in the race down, it's sitting on the bottom and yelling to the companies: come here, pay as little tax as possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u25	I didn't find out a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u26	Neither do I, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u27	I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u28	I'd like to go on; not on that bottom of the sea, that yoo-hoo. The Secretary of State says that the broadening of the base, which is to be particularly targeted at large companies, can partly be used to reduce the Vpb. I have a number of questions about this; first of all, the following. Would the Secretary of State agree that the reduction of the Vpb, for which it is intended, can in itself act as an incentive for legal tax constructions? So it could be an incentive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u29	I'd like to respond to that. The answer is no. In my opinion, a system with high rates and a lot of deductions, or posts with which you can invent structures, leads to the emergence of structures. We are just trying to make the system simpler, with fewer horns and phone calls and less possibilities to avoid tax. On the other hand, there is a lower rate. On balance, the system I'm building is less sensitive to flow-through activity than the system that was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u30	That is an important conclusion from the Secretary of State. There are differences of opinion as to whether it is an incentive, but we can see that. But the Secretary of State also makes an important statement. He says: I think the whole package will help to reduce the role of the Netherlands as a link in constructions. Then I think it would be very good to agree that we have some sort of zero measurement of tax structures, or of avoidance, if one wishes; perhaps that could be the effective degree of taxation. I am very curious about the answer to that and the way in which the Secretary of State is going to report it to us. Does the Secretary of State feel like such a zero-measurement, and does he want the question to go around in his head how can we verify that? How else are we gonna know next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u31	I always greatly appreciate the enthusiasm of the Chamber. I am working on an introduction in which I discuss the cubes, and even before I get to the blocks and to all the questions that have been asked, there are again questions about the questions that I may not have answered yet. But I promise you, I'm gonna give you a lot of answers. The zero measurement is also covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u32	You have indeed very nicely indicated which cubes you are going to do. I think it is a good thing that we are trying to keep structure in the debate. I am also looking at Mr Nijboer. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u33	Of course, Mr President, so I am going to deal with the subject that has now been discussed in the Chamber, namely the race to the bottom. The Netherlands is leading the way in Europe. I wonder how the cabinet, now that a Brexit deal appears to be coming or about to come, is going to be credible to England so England won't do it. How can the Netherlands be credible? 'Cause England's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u34	I try to point out Mr Nijboer's question. He actually says: the UK has presented plans to reduce its corporate tax. Well, we're also presenting plans to lower our corporate tax. So I'm thinking what's the opposite of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u35	That is precisely the problem: the over-effect in Europe. The Chamber has said over and over again that we should not want that. The PvdA is one of the pioneers in this, but also D66 often participates in this. We should not want countries to bid against each other, or actually bid down, so that companies will no longer pay taxes, or at least ever less. The deal looks like it's coming now. You can see that England is going to want to pull all these companies and let the rates go down further. My question then is how the Netherlands now wants to appeal to England with credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u36	That's what comes next. The first question is: isn't it weird that the English are doing what when we wouldn't do anything? You don't have to. It's not like we're lowering our rates because the English are lowering them. Nor do we reduce them when a tariff is reduced in Cyprus. What Mr Nijboer is trying to say is that nominal rates have fallen over time. Of course it is. On the other hand, I have already explained during the legislative consultation that if you look at Vpb's revenues as part of the overall tax revenue or the percentage of Vpb expressed as a percentage of GDP, you can see that it is actually quite constant throughout the cycle. The idea that there is a race to the bottom of the treasury, which we always talk about, is certainly not true if you look at the Dutch Vpb revenues. I don't have the numbers ready for the other countries right now, but I suspect there's the same kind of pattern in there. Of course, revenue is always dependent on the cyclical cycle, I am aware of that. But even if you draw a trend line through that, you can see that's pretty constant. So I just don't see that point. Again, if you look at the effective reduction in pressure, what we are doing now for business in the Netherlands, then you see 4 billion in tariffs, which is nice for them, and on the other hand 3.6 billion in basic broadening, that's not so good for them. On balance, this is beneficial to SMEs and less favourable to large businesses. So I don't recognize this image much. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get on with the introductory shots before I get to the blocks. First of all, greening. Before I get to the precise questions, I would like to say once again how important I am to this subject and the cabinet considers it to be. Let's be clear about that. That is why it is our plan, determinedly, to tax pollution more heavily. This makes it more financially advantageous for companies and institutions to opt for sustainable technologies in the field of energy and environmentally friendly techniques. For example, polluting heavy goods vehicles from outside and inland will pay more tax to be allowed to drive in the Netherlands. The higher the emissions, the higher the taxes. This also applies to taxi companies. They too will have to pay more tax from 2020 if they opt for low-cost instead of more economical taxis. This also applies: the higher the CO emissions, the higher the taxes due.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u37	This is exactly what we want as a cabinet. I'm gonna say hello to the new president. At the same time, we want to create new options. This applies not only to driving but also to more choices that both consumers and businesses can make. For example, the government also increases the tax on natural gas and reduces the tax on electricity, in order to make energy tax rates more proportionate to CO emissions. And landlords who grow rentals energy-efficiently will be eligible for a tax reduction of the landlord's tax from next year on. We will probably talk more about the housing corporations later. I've prepared some answers for that, too. Anyway, there's always more to want, of course. We do a lot of what we have intended, but the thinking does not stand still. There are a lot of plans for the future. For example, a climate agreement is under way, which still contains a number of measures in the greening field. For example, think of the aviation tax we are working on. I have already informed your Chamber that it is quite remarkable in itself that there is no form of taxation on aviation, whereas other forms of transport do. Moreover, in most countries around us, the flight tax has already been set up, but not yet in our country. Wherever we used to be, we're chasing after now. Moreover, with all these plans, I still intend to steer new legislation towards simplicity for citizens and businesses, and on the most feasible and least complicating variant for the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u38	Unless the Secretary of State returns to the flight tax much later, I would now like to ask him whether it is similar to the new tax on lorries, whose more revenue is returned in the context of the approach to a better environment, in the case of the flight tax, it is also conceivable that the 200 million that they could produce, preferably in option 1, will be recycled back to airplanes that are very clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u39	I get that question. But one is a tax and the other is a tax. In the coalition agreement it was decided that, although heavy goods vehicles should be charged, what is there can be used in the sector. For the flight tax, we really have 200 million budgeted what we expect as revenue for the state treasury. So it's different in design.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u40	I understand that, but my question is whether it is actually conceivable and whether the Cabinet is prepared, despite the fact that one is a tax and the other a tax, to use that extra revenue not for everything, but to look very specifically at how to stimulate clean aircraft with subsidies. So instead of possibly not taxing it even more stimulate it. But that is a further decision of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u41	That's a question that's not there yet. Let us first try to do what we intended in the coalition agreement: to design one. That is still quite complicated, because we have a lot of things to take into account. But the idea would be that there will soon be more economical, cleaner and quieter planes to Schiphol. That's what you end up achieving. Your question is whether the money could possibly go back to the sector if more were to be collected than the 200 million expected in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u42	No, I'm even tighter. I ask you not to put the 200 million in your pocket for all kinds of other destinations, but to spend the 200 million within the sector in such a way as to improve the quality of the environment, similar to the lorries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mr Van Rooijen is hard on me, I'm hard on him. This is just money for the treasury. That's it. Then I think it is good to say something about Mr Nijboer's comment yesterday. He asked why the Minister was not present in the debate, while a broad opposition in the Chamber would like to talk to him about the use of funds. He also asked a substantive question. He asked how the review related to the budgetary rules and what the substantive motivation for the package was. Around the review package, we've already been in your Chamber. Together with the Prime Minister, I had a discussion here on 16 October. This is to take away the picture that there has not yet been any opportunity in your Chamber to discuss what happened with regard to that review and also to propose alternatives. This also fits within the budget law of your Chamber. There's really no misunderstanding about that. The Minister's presence is not necessary for this; there is just that right. In concrete terms, today we are discussing the 2019 Tax Plan and also the ATAD 1 Directive. In the division of labour between the Minister and myself, taxation is part of my package. That is why I am standing here today to discuss with you all that has been asked here. I will also mention the budgetary rules, if any questions were raised by Mr Nijboer. I've got a decent answer here that I'd like to give him with love.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u44	However, he already has an interruption before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u45	The problem is not that I think this Secretary of State can do worse than the Minister; perhaps he can do better. In fact, that wouldn't surprise me. The problem is that the Millions note is being changed. The Minister of Finance is the first to be responsible for this, but he refuses to come to the Chamber. The Prime Minister has had a debate with group chairmen, but the Finance Minister simply refuses to debate 1.9 billion otherwise. I don't think that's anything like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u46	But you also had substantive questions, such as the question of what exactly is going on with that package. I would like to answer that now. Mr Nijboer knows better than anyone that we have budgetary rules for this. I will not explain it in its entirety. Under the current budgetary rules, you should not apply a shift in the burden. We had 1.9 billion in other burden-sharing. Can you spend that on other expenses? The answer to that is no. Not according to the current budgetary rules. We have followed that very carefully with the 1.9 billion. Mr Nijboer said: okay, but you have moved 1.9 billion for the location climate, the business package, in one go. You could have also made the choice to divide it differently between citizens and business. What about the budgetary rules for that? The story is that the budgetary rules do indeed have a strict burden framework and expenditure framework. The burden framework is not narrowly defined as a burden framework for businesses and citizens. So it's not like there was a compulsion to do it like that. That has been a policy choice in the coalition, as we often do when there is a setback or a windfall that you have to deal with. Then you try to get as close as possible to the cause of the anomaly. In this case, one cause was less burden relief due to the dividend tax. At that time, we decided quite quickly to do this strictly in the way closest to possible, because you can never do it one-on-one with those measures that were there. So with regard to the first: the stricter rules between expenditure and the burden. But within the burden, there is no rule, but it was a choice we made in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u47	The latter is clear. It could also have gone to the VAT increase or less increase. That was just a political choice. Then about the first. If a large decision is reconsidered by a cabinet, which was the case here, it has been quite common in the past that the frameworks have also been adapted. Why was it not chosen in this case? This can be done within the existing budgetary rules, can't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yeah, you can always change frameworks, but not just like that. You will understand that at the Ministry of Finance we do not think of that very quickly. At a time when you are going to adjust the burden development or expenditure development that you set out in the frameworks, you are actually adjusting a lot of balances. Especially if you're in a four-party coalition, I can imagine you're careful with that. So in general, you will see, even in other packages when we talk about the climate, that we are trying very hard to adapt a framework, because then we will really deviate from the trend line we had planned for the government agreement. Is it impossible to do that? No, it will be possible, but we will try to prevent it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u49	That's clear. The choice "is made by people or goes to companies" has thus been a political choice in any case. That's what the Secretary of State said right away. But also the choice of whether we could invest extra in education, for example, or in other matters relating to the location climate, culture and housing climate, would have been politically possible in itself, but not desirable from the point of view of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u50	You can call into question all the agreements you make in a government agreement, including your spending frameworks. But I think we all agree that the moment you have agreed on two frameworks and can find an alternative without changing the frameworks, which is always preferable. That is not the only point of view of finance. I think that would be the whole cabinet's point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr. Nijboer, finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u52	I'd like to come back to this when the Minister returns, who isn't just about taxes. The Secretary of State is about taxes, but the Minister is also about spending. In the Navy's note, he does not escape to appear here again and to speak about this. Well, I guess I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u53	I'm sure it's true that he's gonna be here on the Navy's bill. Then I'd like to start with the block of burgers. That's a pretty thick block. The following topics will be discussed. I'll just name them, otherwise we might do all the topics right away. First system improvement, then purchasing power. Three: load relief. Four: box 2. Five: the ZW benefit, the employment discount and how we deal with it. Six: the VAT increase. And last but not least, the voluntary scheme, which also had some questions. I specifically address the questions that have been asked about these parts. I shall begin with a question from Mr Snels, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Stoffer on the building blocks of a new tax system. They wanted to know what my intentions were. Mrs Lodder also referred to the existing tax arrangements which might be better given in the form of a subsidy. She then gave an example of the deduction of monuments and asked whether there are any more simplification themes on our list in that respect. What we are doing now in the Tax Plan is, in my view, a rather ambitious package. We're reducing the burden on labour, marginal pressure; I'm not going to repeat it all again. At the same time, the system is not yet complete. I agree with everyone. You can think of that from all sides, but one of the points that has been highlighted around simplifications is always number one: simplification, both for the citizen and for the performer. Then it is fair to say that normally a tax system due to social developments, political desires, sometimes international obligations, and sometimes also an existing budgetary need to intervene or broaden, tends to become increasingly complex over the years. So even if we don't want to, it happens over and over again. That's why it's not weird that you say: once in a while you have to try to find some kind of reset button; can't we even see if we can do it simpler? Many legitimate examples have been mentioned in the Chamber as to how complicated it can sometimes be. So yes, it is important and we must continue to work on simplifications and improvements for citizens, businesses and the Tax Administration. Citizens and businesses also have an interest in ensuring that the Tax Administration is able to implement the regulations properly and quickly, and there are questions at the moment. These points were raised by Mrs Leijten and others and I fully agree with them. Mr Snels mentioned a number of general principles which he felt were important for attention to be given to. He calls it fairer, simpler, greener and more consideration for low-income people. I think that if you put it that way, most Members of this Chamber will agree with these principles in themselves. But if you then put these principles into practice in concrete legislative proposals, you will see that everyone again means something else by what is fairer, what is greener or what is simpler. Anyway, the point is that we have to keep looking for that, and I really embrace that. I'll take it with both hands and I'll keep doing it. I can also say to Mr Stoffer that simplification of the system as a whole will always be an important one for me. It will be a centerpiece, a central part of this quest. De Omtzig asked even more specifically how the committee that is going to look at a future system will actually be formed. We have had advisory committees before and they have come up with a number of important advice points. We didn't all enter them. We've got that on the shelf, too. Sometimes there seemed to be ideas that might have been beautiful on paper, but in the implementation practice a little less. Actually, he says that he might imagine that you're also involving people from the implementation practice, people who have worked for a long time in the service or have worked for a long time in the advisory practice, to know what's actually going on and whether it's possible. Sometimes you have a wonderful idea, but you can't. That suggestion is also important, I think. Again, I'm still thinking about how I'm going to shape all this exactly, in what's the best way. How do we put forward previous ideas? We don't want to get the same kind of advice for the third time. I'm really gonna do that with full energy. I'll involve the experiences of the IRS. I will certainly involve outsiders. I also promised to come in spring or early next year with a letter in which I try to explain exactly how I am going to do all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr Omtzigt has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I would like that letter to actually come this winter, before March, and that there will also be a concrete proposal with a mandate that they will receive, in which, among other things, the principle of carrying capacity is simply clear and in which all things from the past are indeed taken into account. To figure out a few things, you need a little time. Then the Chamber can talk here about whether this is about the right assignment and then these people can see in peace what options are. These options can then just be on the table at a subsequent cabinet formation, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u56	I have some doubts about this, because I think Mr Omtzigt rightly pointed out to me last time that I had to be careful that when we deal with such a committee, which is not a committee, we should jump through all kinds of hoops that we give them and really let them think freely. The proposal you have just made seems a bit like we are going to have to pre-sort again, and I do not think that is what we should do. He's asking for winter. We already have a winter letter, so I won't call him that. Let's do it in the spring, with the new system. I like the sound of that. I understand your wish. I am not going to wait any longer than is strictly necessary, but I really want to consider that in that letter I am going to indicate how we can best shape that. But your points are clear and I'll take them with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u57	Thank you. I assume that will happen as soon as possible, but not in a week or so. I really understand that. The intention of my first remark was precisely not to give very precise questions here, but to give a very open picture. I suspect that, in a number of cases, this will simply come out with an option which may also have to do with political preference, but which also clearly states: this is feasible and internally logical and other things you simply should not do. Then we will no longer be presented with proposals like the household test, which turned out to be a completely impassable path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u58	I think I understand very well what Mr Omtzigt is saying. I think it might just be that we feel the same way. The most important thing is that we explore all the areas, but we do not explore all kinds of areas that ultimately show that we can't do anything with them. We need to try to pick up signals from the world around us about what's bothering people the most. You really need to think about how to get the best of those signals. I'm just gonna get that all side by side. I'll get there as soon as possible in 2019 I don't want to mention a date, because I really don't know about that yet. Let's say early 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u59	In reply to Mr Omtzigt, the Secretary of State said: I will take that with me. To be quite specific, yesterday I spoke in detail about the principle of carrying capacity and also gave six points for a change in the system. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give a heavy place, in particular, to the principle of carrying capacity, which was explicitly mentioned by some political groups yesterday in all kinds of keys? Apart from the six points that I specifically mentioned, they do not only affect capacity, but also other aspects. Is he prepared to make the principle of carrying capacity a guiding principle? Because that's gradually watered down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u60	As an idea, I take that suggestion, but I can't say "I'm going to do it like that and I'm gonna embrace it" because I don't know yet. Moreover, we are still a little caught in the trap that we are going to say: this is going to be a reform of the system, which focuses on the principle of capacity. I don't know yet. I am sure that Mr Van Rooijen's points live in society because I assume that he will receive the signals there and that they will come up on their own. We have to give it a place. It's good to hear all the ideas. We will pick them up and, above all, tell them again, but I am not going to say: that will be a centerpiece of our system reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you for that clear answer. I hear the Secretary of State say that perhaps we are not going to bring in the principle of carrying capacity or better. The principle of carrying capacity has always been the guiding principle of taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u62	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u63	You know that as well as I do. I remember Jan Christiaanse, who used to say that in his senator time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u64	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u65	So my question isn't whether it might come back a little bit. You shouldn't talk about old times; I'm sometimes blamed for that, but we should try to bring back the good things of the past better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u66	You're talking about your own words, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u67	I certainly do not blame Mr Van Rooijen for that. I must tell you quite frankly that he does have a memory of more things than I do, but that is probably logical. But it is obvious, of course, that it is a building principle under the whole of taxation. I'm just trying to keep from mentioning one thing now and not the other. If it turns out that we have to deviate too much from it or do too many tricks to add to it, I think that is also a discussion we had here in the Chamber. I have heard Mr Van Rooijen correctly and I will go with him for a while, without saying here: this is how we are going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u68	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr Stoffer asked me whether there was actually a flat tax, because you still had so many different tax reductions. You may only have two discs, but there's still so much going on. It is certainly not a pure flat tax. By the way, one might also ask whether a purely flat tax is desirable, because we also have other objectives, such as a progressive tax system, where the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden, and we also try to achieve balanced income distribution in other ways. So a really pure academic flat tax isn't something I'm aiming for. It's a good model of thinking to go to, to see if it could be. Anyway, I'm just saying he was right when he said we don't have a clean flat tax right now. I understand that he thinks it's even more important than me that there might be, but I want to use it mainly as a thought model to see if we can make it simpler and simpler and if it can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mr. Stoffer has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u71	Yes, I do. For a moment, I thought the question had been answered. The Secretary of State says it's a nice thought model. Does this mean, if he thinks further about the tax system, that that model of thinking is also being implemented somewhat further? Or is it just thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u72	It's not gonna last forever. The thinking never stops. Only, if the aim was to achieve a pure flat tax, in a country like the Netherlands, where we have far more objectives for taxation, I think it is a long way to go. I understand, or suspect, that you would like to go there more, but there will be other parties, including in this coalition, who say that there are other interests that the system has to serve. So whether we end up there is the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u73	I'm glad to hear this Secretary of State says this isn't the end point and that he's thinking about it. That might also mean that we are going in that direction a little bit more. I do not believe that we are at 100%, and that is clear, but this is not the end point, not even in practical actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u74	No, but this train doesn't just go straight, so I'm actually saying the thinking doesn't stop. It's not the end point for that. If you ask if the next station on this train journey is a flat fee, the answer is: I do not know. I have just said: for me, that is more of a thinking model than something I am aiming for. Mr Snels asked what problems would eventually be solved by lowering the top rate if the reduction was mainly directed towards higher incomes. I think that was his question. An important reason for the introduction of a two-disk system with a basic and a top rate is that it is becoming more profitable to work more. This is important for the cabinet, especially for middle-income households. I called that all the way to the beginning. Another reason is that the flatter tariff structure makes it less important whether the income is earned by one or two persons. The impact of the measure should ultimately be considered in a coherent manner. The cabinet believes that the balance we have now found is the right one. Mr Van Rooijen asked if I could provide an overview of the progressivity within statutory rates, tax rebates and surcharges. I can offer that, but perhaps not now orally on all points. I do not think that this is helpful either, but the progressiveness of tariffs, tax rebates and surcharges are seen together in the marginal pressure. That's where the three parts come together. The marginal pressure depends, among other things, on the composition and income situation of a household. So you can't give one overview of the marginal pressure, because it depends on what you're in. That is also a bit of the discussion we are having about effective tax burdens. You have a nominal rate. A lot of things happen then, but there is not one effective rate for putting something in one picture. The same applies to marginal pressure. Several examples of marginal pressures for different households have been given in the answers to your Chamber's previous questions. Earlier this year, a motion was also adopted asking the cabinet to investigate this marginal pressure, because it is becoming very high in some areas. In fact, we all think that sometimes it is so high that you can wonder if it is desirable. In fact, we have the answer to that. This study is currently being carried out. The results will be shared with you, as promised, before the summer recess. So the point remains: one table for that is not possible, but the research with all these pictures is still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u75	Thank you for that commitment, which you repeat. My question was: in the future, if you turn a single button in the preparation of new policies, do you want to see what this means for the surcharges? If you play with all kinds of limits at the discounts and the surcharges, then some groups already have 20 consequences, other groups at 40. And what's the accumulation at 40 of things? I just mentioned an interactive key table, which we can all see next year, so to speak: if you press one button, what consequences will that have on all the others, and what is the end result for the average and marginal pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u76	The latter seems difficult to me, because this marginal pressure depends on family income and composition. So you have to have endless tables of potential families. I don't think that's what you want. What you do want is to have insight. We used to have the idea: you have to bring all change points at the same time. That's a limit, isn't it? Above that much you make a lot, below that much it's little. The problem is, if you focus all your income policies on that, you'll have those big traps. We have it over time. This cabinet too tries to limit some of these traps, but they are still there. We know that too, because very heavy regulations sometimes start or stop at a certain point. We really need to do something about that. That is what we need to put into perspective: what can we do to prevent this marginal pressure from getting so much on some income trajectories that are buttons and can we not do more than this cabinet already does? That's exactly what we're investigating. I hope that that will lead us to do so, because I believe that it is a joint wish of all of us to do something about it. But only when the investigation is there can I discuss it with you a little more deeply. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen also asked if I shared his opinion that there is no point in developing yourself between the minimum wage and a modal income because of the high marginal pressure we were just talking about. I don't share that opinion. Like Mr Van Rooijen, I believe that work or more should continue to be paid even for low-income people between minimum wage and moderate income. This is what the Cabinet is trying to do. The extremes in the marginal pressure between the minimum wage and a modal income are targeted by the labour discount, the less rapid reduction of the rent allowance and an adjustment in the child-related budget. Is that gonna hit everyone? We do not know that, but as far as we can serve these groups, we have taken targeted measures. However, once again, the cabinet is really looking to see if any further improvements are possible, because we share the inconvenience about this. This too will be part of the research into the marginal pressure I have just mentioned. Then I have a question from Mr Snels on the purchasing power estimates. He asked whether they were not overtaken by the 400 million cut in the tax reduction in energy taxes. He also asked what this means for the percentage of households that do not improve purchasing power. That's always nice. We are presenting that 93% of the people in the group are making progress and fortunately there are always people who say: but that still means that people are declining. That's the kind of question it was. How many people are going to make less progress? As I think Mr Snels knows, the increase in energy taxation is reflected in the overall inflation rate. As a result, the effect on the estimated purchasing power for each household is the same. This also applies to other factors, such as change of rental price. In practice, however, such factors can be both higher and lower for the different income groups than those taken into account in the purchasing power calculation. Mr Snels is right in the example of energy taxation. It is also said by the planning agency that this has additional distributional effects on the purchasing power plates we present. Only it is not possible for us to map all these changes in the wallet exactly for every household. We'll never be able to do that. The energy tax is one of them, but you have several effects that will fall down differently from the various incomes than in the assumed inflation estimate. However, the point he made about the energy tax is the point we also recognise. At the request of Mr Snels, the Minister for Finance undertook to discuss with the CPB how these energy costs could be included in the purchasing power estimate. In short, is there really anything we can do with that? He will shortly inform the Chamber of the outcome of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u77	My question was very specific because the CPB itself had done that study on the impact of energy measures on purchasing power and there should actually be a correction on the Princess Day figures. My question is very specific as to what it means for the Princess Day figures, for the 92% of the people who are making progress. I never got an answer to that question. I have said, in my view, in the Financial Reviews, that the 92% at the bottom of the income building is falling. That could be 85%. The optimism of the cabinet is moderated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u78	I cannot often agree that even next year, by far the majority of households will improve if numbers are taken into account, for more than decades, even if the energy bill increases. I do not want to take anything away from that picture for a moment, because we are giving a lot of relief. When that point is settled, the question arises as to whether you can express that in percentage. So that's tricky. We recognise that effect, but the way in which we have presented it so far is through inflation. In consultation with the planning agency, we are now going to see if there is another way to do this. The moment we get there, there may also be a new figure in the future. I am a little hesitant to mention all kinds of new figures, which we can only partially implement, have not been passed on and of which we do not know whether they are entirely correct. The effect and direction of this are recognised by the planning agency and therefore by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u79	A follow-up question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u80	Very briefly. It is a good thing that the Minister of Finance consults with the CPB. In any case, the percentage of 92% will fall. We don't know how much right now, we'll know that in the future. But that optimism of the cabinet is something I would have liked to have slowed down a bit. Especially since the cabinet itself shields with those percentages every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u81	The outcome might be that it's different than we're presenting, but we won't know it until we have it. There may also be other measures that have an opposite effect. I am a little less sure than Mr Snels about the overall conclusion that our figure will change if you change it all. We shouldn't do that. We recognise the partial effect of the energy tax; it is good that Mr Snels has raised this. We'll talk about it in consultation with the planning agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u82	People at home don't believe it: we're all getting better next year. That's jubilee politics and magic with numbers. That would happen last year and half of the people did not see purchasing power increase. We have seen that 27,000 families are more in poverty than the year before. And you know what I'm so sorry about? That the Central Planning Office simply says that families are not getting better by tax measures, but only by compensating for supplements, child-related budgets and that sort of thing. I argued yesterday that this is unfair, because the tax reduction for the highest incomes is an annual right, but the compensation for the lowest incomes that receive a tax increase must be renegotiated every year and is a favour. Does the Secretary of State think that's fair distribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u83	I just don't see it that way. That word "favor" sounds so weird, too. I really don't see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u84	It took a lot of twisting this year, a few billion more were thrown against it to turn the buttons so that as many people as possible would advance in the pictures. But the Central Planning Office is simply saying it very loudly: the tax measures do not help families, that is only because of the compensation in surcharges. So you have to deal with the system that the highest incomes are entitled to a tax reduction, but that the lowest incomes receive an annual favor in the redistribution of all kinds of perks. Does the Secretary of State think this is fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u85	I am almost surprised by the fact that Mrs Leijten said about the purchasing power package that we decided on in August, which, on balance, turned out to be positive for the bottom and the middle groups: you still had to turn all kinds of buttons if necessary. Yeah, but that was in favor of the bottom wallet. That's what I wanted to say. It looks like we've done something dirty there. I believe that we have tried to help make the purchasing power plates as stable as possible. I'm more proud of that than I'm ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u86	The Secretary of State understands perfectly. You have to adapt every year in August to give the lowest incomes a little bit, but if you let the tax system do its job, they'll blow year in, year out in minus. And you're just talking about families, ordinary households, people who work. They do not advance in this system, with the plans of this government. And then he says, "I'm gonna build building blocks for a new tax plan," and that has to be fair. I'm asking if he thinks its operation is fair. Shouldn't he be able to go into that? He knows what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u87	We're gonna ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u88	The last question escapes me a little, but I'm glad you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u89	I asked the question twice. Is it fair that the compensation of the lowest incomes is an annual favor and depends on the coalition's attitude towards the money that is left, and that the tax reduction for the richer in our country is a right? Is that fair? I'd already asked the question twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u90	The first time I said that I do not see it that way in all honesty. I don't see it as a favor either. I also gave Mrs Leijten the answer that I was proud to have done my utmost precisely in August to ensure, at least at the bottom of the income ladder, that people can make as much or almost as much progress on it as the groups above. You could have said, "What an idiot that you do this; you should have arranged it somewhere else." I'm glad I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u91	I am giving Mrs Leijten the opportunity, because I believe that your question focuses on the difference between taxes on the one hand and increases or other interventions on the other. You want an answer to that, I believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u92	Yes, Mr President, and it is not the first time I have asked that question, because this is already the fourth round of this debate on these eight tax laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u93	That's why I'm gonna tell you that you're gonna get the chance. I do not want to favour the number of interruptions, but I understand that you want an answer to that question. I think the question is clear. Let's see if the Secretary of State can deal with the aspect of taxes versus those surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u94	The question is whether that was actually at the heart of the argument. In my view, the essence of her argument is that by definition the system leads to a better development at the top and that it is then a kind of favor if you still try to regulate the bottom. I think that is what she says, and I say that: I do not see it that way; I think it is important that we take care of the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u95	Okay, then I want to know from the Secretary of State what happens to the lowest incomes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr President, if it has been asked three times, perhaps I should also answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u97	Let's give the Secretary of State the opportunity to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u98	Then I can finish my answer nicely. That is how I understood that question. I have answered this in two different ways. What are the differences in the tax system when it comes to the surcharges and what you get by, for example, improving wages? Or what happens to the Disease Act or to the energy tax? That is what we are all trying to bring together, and then we are trying to ensure that there is a fair distribution on balance. In her view, that cannot be fair. I have already said at the beginning that I am aiming for a fair distribution. I'm really trying to do that. That may be different from what you think, but you shouldn't say it's unfair what I do. 'Cause then I get a little... I don't think that's fair either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u100	It is the Central Planning Office that reminds us that the tax measures do not improve incomes and that compensation must be provided for the allowances awarded. And then you're not even talking about the increase in the care bill, about the extra energy bill raised by this cabinet and about the increase in VAT on ordinary messages. All these things are covered up in the purchasing power cards. And then here, pretending that everyone is making progress while you're making a system where you put down the costs to ordinary families and at the very least compensate them, while you've arranged a tax cut for the highest incomes, not to mention the 4 billion for the companies every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u101	I'm gonna take a look at that anyway. Now the picture seems to arise that the planning agency suggests that we have a negative purchasing power development and that the cabinet says otherwise. I'd like to make that right. That's not true. And I would like to take this opportunity to say that the EUR 4 billion reduction is being financed out of basic broadening for EUR 3.6 billion, so that image is still being used unjustly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u102	Thank you. I am going to see Mr Mulder, who reported to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u103	It's kind of annoying now. I'm actually doing a repeat of the first interruption. We'll talk for three days. In the end, the Secretary of State admits that a number of things were not good. And then he starts today and he pulls out all the tricks again, first with the load relief there isn't; there's a charge increase, and now with the purchasing power figures. That is nice, because that probably relates to the purchasing power figures he himself presented first. But then Minister Koolmees came on 15 October, who said: sorry, yet another mistake, now we have you again... 'fucked up' that word is being said here next to me; I do not know whether that is allowed, President-in-Office or at least now we have been joking again on Princess's Day. Those new purchasing power figures aren't so good at all. Of the twenty groups used as an example by Mr Koolmees or, excuse me, by Minister Koolmees himself, a third is in the minus. And if you look at the minima and the singles, you'll see them all in the minus. So, in order to support the interruption of the net, I think your figures don't add up. And if you don't, you'll have a fraternity with the other minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u104	The Secretary of State will have it. Yeah, exactly. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u105	I'll take that as a compliment, Mr. Chairman. I have the feeling that the figures we are presenting are exactly the same as we know them. You can say: I see that differently. You can also keep talking about... We present what we do in the plans. Then you say: but there is also a basic path, and if you add it up... I have already said four or five times: of course the people who have closed their eyes and do not know what is of this cabinet and what is of previous cabinets will experience something. That is, on balance, that burden increase of 100 million. We said, like, 100 million. That's for next year. I've already said that five times. That's okay, but that doesn't mean anything about purchasing power development, because purchasing power development is about much more than that. That is the story I just told in the discussion with Mrs Leijten. The development of purchasing power remains so that, despite everything you can say about it, the groups are on balance improving. And all these groups are making considerable progress in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u106	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but this is evidently incorrect. We are receiving a letter from Minister Koolmees in which it is clear that large numbers of groups are declining. Isn't that the letter? Then I guess we have another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u107	Unless I'm confusing things here, but I don't think it was that letter about what went wrong with last year's purchasing power calculation, so about purchasing power in this year. We are now talking about the tax plans for 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u108	Oh, but then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u109	You're acting like I'm wrong now, but you're confusing two things. I present here the Tax Plan 2019 and what that will mean. This applies to all measures for 2019 and beyond. Then you say: yes, but you often present something, because last year you also had such a beautiful picture and that turned out to be different. Koolmees has already stated here that this is true, that there has been a mistake in the calculation for 2018. He's acknowledged that in equestrian terms. But you can't put the mistake of 2018 on our purchasing power plate for 2019. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u110	Now concluding, Mr. Mulder, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u111	But then we'll do the whole committee review again, because then we really had the exact same conversation. If it suits you, you'll pull it wide. Then you say: yes, but you don't just have to look at 2019; we have to take everything. It's either one or the other. If it is only 2019, then we have a burden increase for the citizens of 800 million and then you should not arrive with improvement. It's either one or the other. And again, with these purchasing power figures, there is a certain increase in wages and far too low inflation. As a result, we will be back here in six months, to see that it is disappointing again, even in 2019. This Secretary of State knows that too, because when I offered him a bet on that, he couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u112	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u113	Mr President, when you had just told me that I had to finish, which, of course, makes sense; the Secretary of State also said that it was all wrong. But we have here the Macro Economic Recognition of the Central Planning Office, which always helps us to describe economically the figures presented to us. That Central Planning Office is part of this government; it's just officials who make this. It simply says: "Households with children experience a purchasing power impulse through the higher child benefit." In other words, not because of the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u114	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u115	Yes. We have to observe that you thought differently about this point, but that the Secretary of State has indicated that in the overall picture...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u116	No, if...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u117	Exactly. And so, if we lower child benefit, the functioning of the tax system has nothing to do with those households with children, so families.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u118	And that is why we, and that was my point, always look at these measures in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u119	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u120	Anyway, if this was Mrs Leijten's point, then that's true. There are also expenditure schemes which, on balance, are beneficial to lower incomes. And there I am, again, glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u121	Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u122	Mr Azarkan asked about the difference between the planning office and the cabinet in terms of policy burden development. I had actually dealt with this a little more extensively in the legislative consultation, but I understand that it was not possible to be there for a moment. That is quite all right too, but I do not want to see Mr Azarkan refer him back to that consultation now, to indicate that there was indeed a difference. That was the $800 million and the $100 million. That difference was greater than other years this year and the policy connection between the two balances is very clearly presented in the Mrs's report, but we actually agree with the previous interventions that it is undesirable if these differences are too large or become incomprehensible. So we are going to try again with the planning agency to bring these two closer together. Then there was Mr Van Rooijen's question about the sustainability balance. How did the government's policy relate to the sustainability balance? That's a good question. It is a balance that is not used daily by everyone, but it is a nice balance to see what the developments of the government's finances mean for the treasury over the long term. The policy package of the coalition agreement reduces the sustainability of the coalition, where Mr Van Rooijen was quite right to say that even a little more than half a percent, i.e. 0.6 percentage points of GDP. The resulting sustainability balance is now -0.4% GDP, which represents a sustainability deficit of around 3 billion. Yes, there is. The government finally tried to strike a balance in the government agreement between measures to invest in society and measures to reduce burdens. The introduction of the dual-disk system, for example, has had only a limited impact on the sustainability deficit, which could be behind it. But on balance, Mr Van Rooijen is right: this cabinet is deteriorating the sustainability balance by 3 billion. Mr Van Rooijen also asked whether, in the previous cabinet period, the improvement of the EMU balance was mainly due to the increase in costs and less due to cuts in expenditure. The answer to this is that in the previous cabinet period the improvement of the balance was largely due to a reduction in expenditure. That's what the planning agency study has shown. The increase in burden was thus relatively less important in improving the balance in the previous cabinet period. This is a technical question, but it is good to have that sharp. Then there were a number of questions about employers' labour costs. Mrs Lodders had a few questions about the money reserved to reduce the burden on employers on labour. Mr Snels also had questions about this. For example, Mrs Lodders asked more specifically whether SMEs were sufficiently involved and whether the working costs scheme was being considered. Mr Snels also asked me whether I would like to take his desire to help vulnerable people on the labour market further into the discussions we are having on the reduction of charges. Let me first say that it is true. We have still earmarked money for a reduction in the burden on labour: 100 million structurally as of 2020. This is very specific for SMEs. From 2021 onwards, 200 million are also structural for a general reduction in the employer's labour costs. We have just agreed that we should not do this in splendid isolation in our ivory towers of the legislative house here in The Hague, but that we should have consultation with all stakeholders. So I agree entirely with Mrs Lodder that it is important that we really hear what entrepreneurs are up against in everyday practice and what bottlenecks they have experienced. Apart from the fact that I meet several groups of SMEs on a regular basis, more than once a month, to talk about their experiences. These are nice, good meetings, sometimes critical, but for me always educational........................................................................................................................................................................... What kind of problems are they experiencing? As promised earlier, we take all the ideas with us and see if we can give hands and feet to them. So I'd be happy to admit that I'm going to do it with complete conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u123	Mrs. Lodders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u124	If it's so easily dug in, I can't resist cashing it in. In this sense, I am very pleased with the discussion announced by the Secretary of State, in particular on the cost of work. So I would ask the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber on that very point at the beginning of next year. We had a written consultation not long ago on the evaluation of the cost of work. If that commitment can be made on this point, I am entirely pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u125	Sure, I'd love to. I also hope that we will come out soon, because we would like to fill in an envelope. Experience has shown that you have to fill in envelopes quickly, including in the budget, otherwise there is too much thought about what it really is. So, once. I embrace it. I say to Mr Snels that I will also leave his point to be discussed in my discussions with the SMEs. Mr Van Rooijen asked about box 2 why the tariff increase did not include a respectful effect on past profits. In addition to the budgetary and complexity-reducing reasons mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen, there is also another consideration that does not include a transitional right for old profits. This is because the dga can still choose to pay the profits of its e.g. at the current rate throughout 2019. So the dga has more than a year's time and the perspective of action to make that choice. Whether he does, it could be a lot of things, but it's not like this is happening to him right now. He has just until 2020 to make a choice. Moreover, as a result of the current tax system, dga already benefits from the possibility of postponing the box 2 tax on profit reserves by reinvesting these reserves. So, all in all, we think that the dga, apart from the fact that it will also benefit from the tariff reductions, has enough scope for action to bear this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u126	However, there is the question of whether you have the liquid resources to make that early dividend payment and whether you may also have the funds to reinvest. For example, if you put it in a house, it isn't. It is much more important to say that this is why I mentioned it, including in other examples, the principle aspect. I understand the budgetary aspect, but it is quite a lot to increase the tax on dividends, because we now have a new tax rate of 15% and 20%, whereas a while ago it was 30% and 40%. Those profit reserves are highly taxed. So they shouldn't really be covered by that new tariff. That is the point of principle for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u127	I get that. Mr Van Rooijen has made this point before. I said that it is actually impossible to deal with implementation aspects. But let's get away from that, because it might be possible if you're doing a or b, it's less true this time than in other cases you've previously made an issue of. They still have a year to do that. So there is also scope for action to do so at the current rate if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u128	Articles have been published suggesting that this should be done on a flat-rate basis, I believe. I don't exactly have that in my head right now, but there were some practical solutions. In addition to that, I recall that Minister Dijsselbloem temporarily reduced the rate to 22% at the time in order to encourage payment from box 2. That also led to a great extra benefit. Now you make it attractive by postponing the increase for a year in the hope that everyone will do so. You say that's going to happen to billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u129	It's certainly not the hope that everyone's gonna do this. It suits me as a legislator to distance myself from the decisions taken by the entrepreneur in that context. In fact, it is not our intended policy effect. I'm just saying that the entrepreneur has another year to make that choice if he wants to. That's really different from the cases where someone really gets hurt. You can anticipate this, so you have an action perspective. A lot of dgas might do that, but that's their choice. Before we go all the way into this current account measure, as it is so beautifully called, I would like to point out that I am still coming up with legislation. We still intend to do this. We have put that as a policy idea. We must, of course, take this into account in the budget. Legislation and everything that goes with it, including probably this question from Mr Van Rooijen, will come back nicely to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u130	I wasn't referring to the current account measure. My question remains whether you acknowledge that there is in itself no respectful effect on existing profit reserves and that, unfortunately, implementation problems make it impossible to do so in a fair tax-law way, which perhaps ought to be done. That's what I cared about. Otherwise, I'll get back to you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u131	Yes, but that is not our proposal. Mr Nijboer asked me whether I would like to waive the proposal that the sickness benefit for patients without work should no longer be included in the reduction. We have also thought about this a little longer in the legislative consultation. In fact, the starting point for the proposed measure is that it is not logical that the sickness benefit received by a WW worker instead of his WW benefit as soon as he becomes ill should be included in the employment discount, whereas the WW worker could not have been entitled to it by the same person. Since the measure has income effects on people with a ZW benefit without work, transitional rights have also been chosen. This measure is therefore only applicable by 2020 and only for new cases. This was also recognised by Mr Nijboer. You could say: on the income of these new cases it can also have effects, but well. I repeat that the starting point for this measure contained in the coalition agreement, and also for the legislator, is therefore that it is not logical for me to do so at the moment and for my proposal. The expiry of the measure will therefore lead to a structural loss of 170 million. That is why I do not want to abandon this measure, because it has a certain logic, apart from the fact that it may have an impact on people's wallets and therefore I will not opt for that transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u132	You can argue in fiscal engineering why something makes sense or not. And there's trouble in it, too. I'll admit it. But in the end, the problem is that people who are sick and come out of the WW get on average just €900, but sometimes even €4,000 net less by 2020. I think that's just a very hard-on for low-income or middle-income people. Actually, I don't think that's defendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u133	We discussed this extensively in the legislative consultation. I told you back then, I don't have a wooden heart and I don't see that it can have an impact. At the same time, when you treat someone who is unemployed and becomes ill differently from someone who is unemployed alone, it does not make any sense. I'm sure a lot of people will agree with me, and maybe you will. In itself, it doesn't make any sense. I understand that you want attention to the income effects. That is also what you measure in total with other measures. But institutionally including in tax legislation: if you are unemployed and become ill, you will get more than if you are simply unemployed and not sick, I do not think that makes any sense. We are having a discussion here about how to build a logical system with the right incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u134	The most logical thing would be for you to get it when you're unemployed. Then you've evened it out, too. You're available for the labour market, because you also have to apply. You have to apply, and that's what the employment discount is for. After all, it is there because you also have costs to look for work. The fact that you do so is also mandatory in the Netherlands, because otherwise you will not be unemployed. I'd think that's the logical thing to do. I understand that it costs even more money, but it has been looked at from one side to say: we're just cutting it off for those people. It hits people deep in the wallet, doesn't it? No one understands the technique, but on average it really amounts to €900 for people who are sick. And it can even reach up to €4,000 net per year! That would make sense to me, and certainly at this time, money should be found for that. You opt for 4 billion relief for companies, but you could of course have solved this inequality by giving people who are in the WW this job discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u135	I understand very well the point that it is a tough one, but again there are other arrangements to ensure that those people still have a sufficient level of life at that time. At the same time, there is the incentive to report sick while you are looking for work. If you want to do your best to get to work but also know that you get more money if you report sick and that stays for a while, then we really don't put the incentives down properly. That gives people an incentive to call in sick when they don't really want to. Then Mr Nijboer says: okay, but then give those other people the employment discount. But then the incentive to move away from non-work to work is, of course, intended for this reduction. This reduction is not intended to compensate for costs but to encourage people who do not have a job in a good way. So I see the point, but the solution Mr Nijboer has chosen would not be mine. Mr. Chairman. Then I also had questions about VAT and the VAT increase. In fact, Mrs Leijten and I have been having a discussion a little longer about the VAT increase and how it is going down. We have talked about this a number of times and the essence of her question was always: especially low incomes have unavoidable costs, for example for messages, and what exactly is the situation? We have put together a number of figures for that. In itself, Mrs Leijten obviously has a point when she says that effects on one group work differently than on the other. Data from the CBS were used to calculate that difference. The planning agency also uses them and there is also the study to which Mrs Leijten herself refers. They all say there are effects, but the extent of these effects is very limited. I've explained what that's like on the basis of quatrains. It is therefore not the case that Mrs Leijten's theorem is by definition wrong. In fact, he's a bit of a good guy, because you see a little bit of effects. Only they're so small that we think it doesn't do a lot on balance. Besides, they work both ways. If you compare the tax burden with the spending or if you compare the tax burden with the disposable income, we have done so too..................................................................................................................................................................... On balance, I don't think it's an unwillingness, because they can do some more research. Whether she can do that was her question, but I think further research, if we outsourced it, would produce the same results. Maybe they color it a little bit more, but I really think that a kind of strict definition of what people experience as avoidable costs is not going to give any more insight into the measure and how the increase in the low VAT rate falls down among the different groups. That is why I said: I really do not think that an additional investigation is necessary. Everything we have actually confirmed all the calculation used. Then there was a question from Mr Snels about the environment...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u136	But Mrs Leijten still wants to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u137	Those purchasing power models have one certainty: they don't come true. They don't reflect reality. I gave the Secretary of State the following example. According to the government, people who work will advance €300 next year, but according to calculations they will also lose €300 extra to the VAT increase. Then how are these people going to pay the health insurance premium increase? Then how are they gonna pay for the energy bill increase and the rent increase? And how are they going to pay for inflation, because all the messages are also getting more expensive because of inflation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u138	All these effects do indeed play in the citizens' wallet. The citizens are not affected by one measure, but by a lot of measures taken by the cabinet or by measures already in place. On balance, this leads to a thicker or thinner wallet. What does that mean? Other things are also important, such as pay, the question of whether you are going to work more and all kinds of other things. But what if you say I keep doing exactly what I did? Then what happens to my income next year? There are several tools to explain what the effects are. The government also has a tool, on Wiser in money matters, that tries to do so. That's never gonna knock one-on-one for everyone. This includes, for example, the energy tax, as well as the other effects you call them. But on balance, you get an image of what it means. We tried to do it with the purchasing power plates. From the purchasing power plates you can find anything; they always lead to a lot of confusion. But the bottom line is this: if our assumptions are correct, the percentages we mention for this should be roughly the same as the percentages for the people who fill out this tool. So you see that, on balance, people will actually find a small plus in all groups. That will not apply to everyone individually. We can't; we can't say that like that. But the groups do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u139	Okay, so to the people I mentioned yesterday, people who see an empty wallet at the end of the month and who find it hard to organize a warm meal for their families every day, I'm just saying: go to the tool?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u140	No, Mr President, I think that was both the question and the wrong answer. The question was what people should do to gain insight. If you want insight, you could look at that tool. It gives the best insight. But a tool is nothing more than the best possible prediction of what we think the measure means. It doesn't say what the people who are having a hard time are actually experiencing. Again, I'm not saying these people always have it easy when they see the wallet empty at the end of the month. My only expectation is that those people too, if you look on balance, will find that their wallet has become thicker than what the VAT increase is asking them to do. We have also tried to clarify this. Only part of what you buy, of all the groceries people do, even at the supermarket, has a low rate. We've been trying to figure that out. For example, if you spend €100 worth of groceries every week under the reduced rate, so without the shampoos and such a thing that is on average spending more than a poor family, the effect on balance is €2. Then you can say, "That's not nothing." But we really think that this €2 is earned by the other measures we are taking. I really want to correct the image that's been put down over and over again that these people are all going backwards on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u141	Every week €2 is €100 at the end of the year. Then you haven't even mentioned VAT on transport and all kinds of other things. I am so disappointed that the Secretary of State keeps hiding behind estimates, which we know are averages, and that they beat things up more than they actually feel in the wallet. Of course, people who don't have enough money for the daily groceries and the necessary livelihoods are going to feel harder than people who have space in their wallets. Of course! Why is it so hard to acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u142	I think it's accusing me of hiding behind models, not right. I'm trying to explain why I can never individually indicate for the 17 million Dutch what it means for their lives next year. We can try to assess this in the best possible way by indicating what we are doing in all the measures. It is my firm belief that many of the people with a small wallet, who struggle every month or every week or every day if necessary, will also see that the measures we are taking are positive. Does that apply to everyone? No, I don't think so. There are individual cases of people who don't experience that. We find this annoying, like Mrs Leijten, and we are trying to avoid it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u143	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u144	Mr Snels had another question about environmental differentiation in VAT. Would it be possible, for example, to apply a different rate to meat than to fruit and vegetables or to healthy food versus unhealthy food? That is possible in itself, I say to Mr Snels. According to the VAT Directive, Member States may apply two reduced VAT rates in addition to the general rate. The introduction of the second reduced rate has so far been delayed, not only with us but also in many other countries, because three different VAT rates are extremely complicated, for the service but also for the business sector in its administrative burden. But technically, of course, all kinds of things are possible. Mr Van Raan had the same kind of question. He asked what you actually have to do with the freedom to set such a low VAT rate, if you do not then use it. The choice of the cabinet, let's just say. He also asked why people care is exempt from VAT and animal care is not. His implied request was to arrange that, because that would be so nice. In reply to Mr Van Raan, I have to say that two things are going to happen. We will soon have the liberalisation of VAT rates. Instead of trying to harmonise tariffs in Europe, there will be a new system that says: let us give more freedom to the Member States to make choices. However, this proposal still needs to be discussed in the EU. So it's not like we can do all kinds of things right now. But it is on the European agenda, although it has not yet been adopted. So at the moment we are still bound by the rules as we have them. The existing directive does not allow, for example, for animal care to be brought under a reduced rate. Since the new directive has not yet been adopted, it is also too early to comment on the feasibility of a different rate for this type of service. Moreover, the introduction of a new tariff and exemption for animal care is not possible under a directive and also on the basis of case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This has already developed case law on a great many things, for example when it comes to something of general interest. This is seen in human care by the Court of Justice and not in animal care. However, what is not, may still come, Mr Van Raan will say. I therefore wish him every success in bringing this to the fore in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u145	That's a challenge. I mean entrapment. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u146	Then let's start with that right away. Europe, are you watching? It's clear. There is going to be more policy freedom, so more freedom to introduce an exempt rate for pets, subject to a timetable. Then, of course, the question is when we expect it. And also... No, let me ask you about the timeline first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u147	This is not an easy European debate, as you can imagine. VAT is perhaps the most complex tax, because it is applied and interpreted everywhere in Europe and has a lot of effects. We are working towards a new VAT system. This too is a part of this. In all honesty, I really don't dare make a meaningful judgment about when it's done. We are working on it, we think it is important that we move forward, but I dare not say that we will be out in the short term. I don't really expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u148	Isn't that right, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u149	Yeah, let's see if I came to the right conclusion. It is now too difficult, too difficult, in terms of introduction. It should not be allowed under the current rules either. It's probably gonna be okay. When it is, we don't know yet. If we are going to be able to do so, we also have the problem that the European Court of Justice has made a ruling. Am I getting it together that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u150	I think most of it is. The latter is, of course, also the case within the current system, in which there must be a general interest. It depends on the outcome of the directive. If we are allowed to differentiate and, for example, no longer have to look at whether it is a general interest or not, the latter might not have to be a problem. But in all honesty, I'm almost out of line here right now, because I don't know exactly. But it would make sense to me that this is how it goes. Mr Omtzigt asked about the thinking sport. Will this exemption continue to apply as long as the unions and we are still in agreement on the directives? As you know, Europe's thinking sport did not find sport and said that it should no longer be covered by the sports exemption. We found that rather strange here in the Netherlands. We are, of course, a country with a great tradition of thinking. We have therefore also agreed to say to Mr Omtzigt once again that the exemption will continue to apply pending the investigation and consultation with the organizations and associations of thought. We shall continue to think, as I have heard Mr Omtzigt say outside the microphone. We like checkers, chess and all that kind of stuff and we really like that sport. We find it a pity that Europe did not feel the same way. We are still looking for a way to settle it, because that is just our starting point. I aim to inform your Chamber further in the first quarter of 2019, after the discussions with the sector that we hope will be concluded. But our objective is clear here. Then there were more questions about sports exemption in VAT. Several members, Lodders, Leijten and Van Weyenberg, had questions about this. For example, Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg asked to confirm and ensure that the combination of the measures and the announced subsidy pot included will not lead to a smaller range of sports. They were right to think that was important. It was also asked whether this measure would not lead to the increase in the cost of sport. We have talked about the tickets for swimming pools, but they can also be tickets for other sports activities. The short answer to that is no. Of course, I can never confirm or guarantee that the price of a ticket will never go up again, but that is, I think, not what you actually wanted to ask. Why can't I? Because VAT is only a very small part of the cog at prices. At the same time, this includes the story of what is happening around the grant. First, let me explain why that is. The Netherlands is obliged by the European Court of Justice to amend the sport exemption. Again, we consider affordable sports to be of great social importance. That's what the Cabinet thinks, and so did the Chamber. Therefore, the Cabinet had decided to fully use the additional VAT revenue from this mandatory adjustment of the sport exemption for the sport subsidy scheme. This scheme also directly subsidises the construction and maintenance of sports accommodation, the management and purchase of sports equipment. On balance, therefore, the cabinet is not making any profit and everything is being done to ensure that sport is not made more expensive for athletes. The grant scheme and the specific benefit scheme are currently being evaluated. During the AO Sport in June, the Minister for Medical Care and Sport promised to send a first evaluation to the Chamber in 2020. In addition, after the summer recess of 2019, the Chamber will be informed of the state of play of the grant scheme. During the legislative consultation, we talked a little more extensively about whether there is room for manoeuvre, whether these arrangements were not over-asked and whether there was sufficient consideration as to what we are missing from VAT, and whether there has been a transfer to the VWS budget. I checked that, too. In my view, even a little more has gone to the VWS budget for these schemes than we can expect from VAT revenue. In short, we really try to do everything we can so that the athlete, especially the amateur athlete, does not become the child of the account. There was also a specific question from Mr Van Weyenberg on Article 11, paragraph 4 which is necessary to prevent the construction, because unfortunately this is also happening in this sector of VAT. He states that there were people who said that the cabinet was stricter than necessary. He asked if I could elaborate on the logic behind this. It is good to stress here once again what happens then. Article 11 (4) contributes to the correct, simple application of the sport exemption and to the prevention of fraud, avoidance and abuse. This paragraph reflects the purpose of the exemption, as sport activities in the general interest are exempt from the exemption and commercial sports activities are excluded from the exemption in the non-profit-making interest. This fourth paragraph of Article 11 is necessary to combat sports structures which are contrary to the purpose and scope of the sport exemption which has just been appointed. Such sport structures artificially create a profit-making process in order to eliminate the VAT exemption and thus benefit from the pre-deduction of VAT. During the legislative consultation I indicated that the advisory practice on these sports structures actively advises and even advertises. This fourth paragraph is really needed to tackle these sporting structures. Let me give you an example of how that goes. It may be that, on balance, a sports association is not lucrative and commercially viable. Then, through a third body, a kind of subsidy is given, so that, on balance, a profit is just made below the line. The sports association claims to have become lucrative and to be able to deduct VAT, without the subsidy already given. That really is a form of a structure that is purely and exclusively intended to be able to charge VAT deduction. We want to combat them very much, and that is why we need to do so. I hope I have been able to explain very clearly why we think we need that Member. Again, this is anti-abuse and not aimed at others, but really at these structures. Mr Van Weyenberg asked for compensation from VWS to be secured. Does that match the downside? I was just saying something about that. I still have the exact numbers here. For the purposes of the Tax Plan, it was estimated that the measure would lead to a budgetary return of 224 million. This estimate already took account of the fact that a large proportion of the parties providing sports accommodation will be covered by this exemption. In the start-up note, 241 million was transferred to the VWS budget, i.e. 17 million more, to set up a subsidy scheme to prevent its consequences, as I have just said. Mrs Leijten said that this is rather complicated, can we not postpone it for a year so that the sector can better prepare itself for the change? She asked me if I was willing to. I don't think that's a good idea. I do not think it is desirable or necessary to postpone the measure. The Court of Justice's ruling which led to this legislative amendment was already dated 2013. Thus, the current sports exemption has not been in line with the current VAT Directive since then. In 2015, my predecessor sent a legal and financial analysis to your Chamber. The need to amend that legislation was explained at that time and it was decided to have the change carried out by the new cabinet. That's what we're doing right now. Over the past two years, my colleague from VWS has been closely involved with the sector in setting up these new arrangements with the beautiful names BOSA and SPUK. These arrangements were published in the summer of this year. At the request of the sector, my colleague Bruins is planning to extend the application period for the SPUK I didn't know that during the legislative consultation, but now I have it in front of me from 1 December 2018 to 30 April 2019, so that there is more time to award that grant. The application period for the BOSA starts at the beginning of 2019 and runs throughout the year. For example, the sector has sufficient time to rely on the scheme that is really intended for them. Moreover, since this summer, the sector has been fully informed about the various arrangements by the Ministry of Education and Science. This communication is always carefully coordinated between the Finance and VWS officials, precisely because we do not want to leave any misunderstandings about it. The Q&As, so to speak, of the industry are now published on the website of the VWS implementation organisation, so that others can learn from the applications that are made. The sector has been fully informed since this summer, I understand, about the various schemes that VWS is also setting up. There is frequent coordination of communication. I think I've already mentioned that. With this, I've completed this block. I wanted to move on to the 30% rule, but I see Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u151	Last year the VAT exemption for sea-going vessels would expire and there was an effect on wadden feathers, which the Chamber said we should try to resolve for a while; we are taking a year longer. The same sector that is going to work with these subsidy schemes that are starting now is now literally saying: all these measures and their good intentions are really undermined by this quick step of the VAT increase for those managers of municipalities. Why is it not possible to take another year in this area to make sure that these grant applications are ongoing and that they actually work and that they are only then allowed to enter into force? You thus give municipalities the opportunity to find a solution for a possible commercial operator of their sports facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u152	I understand very well what Mrs Leijten is saying, but the difference with the measure we took last year around the wadden feathers is that we have been required to do so since 2013. There has been a ruling from the Court for five years: you have to do something about it. In 2015, it was already reported to the Chamber that we should do this. That was three years ago. In those three years there has been consultation and it has been decided that we are going to do this. Over the last two years, my colleague from VWS and his predecessor have already talked to the sector about how to implement these subsidy rules. So I do not think there can be the idea that people are being robbed here. No, there has been intensive consultation on the establishment of the scheme for two years. I really do have less to say than Mrs Leijten, because we both do not want that to happen. That is why I have said that I do not think there should be any delay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u153	Clear. That was the VAT block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u154	Yes. Mr Van Rooijen had a question about the 30% regime. He actually took it for granted that this reduction also applies to expats who have been here for years. He also asked whether the reduction of 30% should only apply to new cases. The answer will probably not surprise Mr Van Rooijen entirely, given the legislation we are preparing. We have chosen to grant a two-year transitional right, so that no one feels mugged by the scheme. That was the case in the first bill. That's when it went right in. So we actually thought that we had sufficient transitional rights here. We think that a full transitional right for all eight of the years of the people who make use of it is too much. So that choice was simply not made. There were also questions from Mr Snels about the 30% regime. He asked why the budgetary effects of his amendment were not entirely consistent with the budgetary effects of other amendments. I hope I will look in his direction for a moment, Mr President, that that has already been explained to him. If that's not the case, I'd like to explain it here again. It had to do with the way in which amendment was designed. I hope that we have made it clear that we are trying to achieve the same fair approach to the cost of amendments. Then Mr Omtzigt had a question about the tariff measure for partner alimony. He asked me whether I would like to enter into consultation with the sector in order to devise or make standard accounting rules that might be necessary for the adjustment of the maintenance obligation, so that the judiciary, which was actually the purpose of his proposal, will not be unnecessarily burdened with alimony lawsuits. It is of course a good idea, because that is indeed not the intention. I can tell Mr Omtzigt that there has already been consultations with the so-called Expert Group on Maintenance Standards.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This expert group has indicated that it will take into account the relevant tax changes when setting the annual maintenance standards, as is already the case with the standard, as well as the changes that are now being made with regard to the rate of deduction. However, it is not possible to draw up standard accounting rules for this, as we have learned. We understand that, because the revision of the maintenance obligation concerns customization. Ultimately, it depends on the circumstances in the specific case. So there's no such thing as a math rule. Moreover, the legislative proposal on this issue has already been submitted to the Council for its case-law and has not seen any reason to comment specifically on this point in relation to the proposal. This means that the Council itself does not expect any major consequences for the case-law, and that is not really what I expect either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u155	Mr. Ommzigt, what do you expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u156	Mr President, I expect that. I believe that, in particular, people with a higher income and a heavy maintenance obligation will request a review of the maintenance obligation, because this measure affects their capacity and is taken into account. Look, one thing is that this is gonna be adjusted for future alimony. That makes sense, right and proper. Another thing is that for the current maintenance obligations, lowering the deduction rate from 52% to 37% in five steps for a maintenance obligation which often runs for 12 years is a major change, such a significant change that gives the right to reopen. I would like the Secretary of State's undertaking that he will once again talk to this committee to see if there can be standard rules for making such revisions more flexible, because we experienced the same thing four years ago when the child-related budget of the benefit went to the child-related budget. No one, including the Council of Justice, had noticed that this was a problem until the problem was there and they were confronted with all these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u157	I think we're really different about this. We have included this point with the expert group. They think they have enough ground to make this kind of arrangement. They rightly say that you not only have relevant fiscal developments, but also a lot of other developments that can also count. They add up. Moreover, a deduction has an impact on tax income, but also on a whole range of other measures. In short, they do not have the idea that they have a problem here, nor do they have the Council for Justice. I can imagine that Mr Omtzigt thinks so, but I really do think so, because in the past it was. This has been explicitly addressed by the expert group. They don't see that point. I'd like to ask them again if they're really sure they're not expecting that point. I will, but it's not my expectation that that will then lead to a standard math rule. It can't be. We must always look at the facts and circumstances when a claim is made. Anyway, I admit that I will ask again: do you still think that or do you now find something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u158	A clear commitment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u159	Mr Van Rooijen had a question about foreign taxpayers who have recently received a letter from the SVB, who are entitled to tax rebates until 31 December 2018, and who no longer have this right from 2019. He read a number of verses about this from the letter. I am going to try to reassure Mr Van Rooijen. The SVB has sent letters to foreign taxpayers with an AOW pension or Anw benefit. To the extent that these foreign taxable persons are entitled to these tax rebates until 2018, if their circumstances do not change further, they shall continue to be entitled to those tax rebates in 2019. I think Mr Van Rooijen was looking for that. To the extent that these foreign taxpayers received tax reductions through the payroll tax in 2018 but were not actually entitled to them, they will not, of course, get that. But that also makes sense. If you got it, but you weren't actually entitled to it, then you're not gonna get it. These foreign taxpayers will receive exactly what they are legally entitled to in 2019. I hope I have reassured Mr Van Rooijen on the purpose of the letter. But that does not seem to be the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u160	Yes, you're almost asking for a response, Secretary of State. Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr President, I can also come back to this in the second term. But there is a group, as Mr Omtzigt pointed out in the questions, in which the regulation is actually being reversed. At first, you weren't entitled to it, but you got it through the payroll tax. And now you're entitled to it, but you don't get it through the payroll tax, you get it through income tax. But that's either at the final attack or at the late provisional attack. It has been promised that it is a kind of transition year in which you can get that preliminary attack in the year. But my point is: can you guarantee that the group that is no longer receiving it through the payroll tax will get it in its entirety? And will you do your best to do so as soon as possible? This is what will happen in January. Because this reduction in the wage tax on the general tax rebate is no longer available, because that part of the tax has become so large, this is a disadvantage of €500 on an annual basis. That is €40 per month so to speak. So people will notice that in January in the wallet. I am very worried that everyone, like the Wul four, five years ago, thinks: the SVB has taken away a piece of AOW! We have to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u162	Sure. By the way, I wasn't aware that I was inciting. I really tried to say comforting words to Mr Van Rooijen, namely that anyone who is entitled to something gets it. Mr Van Rooijen sums up the issue of income tax and income tax. This is sometimes confused, but the time may indeed decide, because the payroll tax can easily be done with the employer and income tax you have to do yourself. It also matters whether you're in Belgium or Germany. We've had that discussion before. This concerns cases in Germany. I never guarantee things, because you never know what happens in cases, but we are absolutely working towards getting everyone exactly and as quickly as possible what they are entitled to. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u163	I understand. That's how I read the pieces, but I'm really worried. I didn't make the analogy to the Wul for nothing. There, the elderly had to pay the 4% on the first disc. Here in January you will no longer get the wage tax reduction based on the taxed part of the tax reduction. I am very concerned about the fact that if we do not provide sufficient information in good time and in a massive way, including in the media, we are going to get a lot of bullshit about it. That's the question I'm asking you. It is in the interests of the cabinet and of the entire Chamber that we will not be able to say: we have not done so well. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mr. Chairman. This is a really right point. We've done this before. Information will be important here. We've made packages for employers working on this. We sent that letter to as many people as we could who knew it was happening. That point is absolutely essential and I support Mr Van Rooijen in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u165	If tomorrow the Chamber accepts the Tax Plan and assumes that the First Chamber will do the same, but that aside, is it conceivable that the Tax Office and also the SVB will say, because the discounts and rates will be known tomorrow, we are already going to send a letter and not until the end of December after the Senate has spoken about it? That's so late. Is that conceivable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u166	I'm all for early communication, and that's what we need to do. At the same time, I can imagine that you would not like it in your future role if we were to say: that will be fine in the First Chamber. I wouldn't do that, but the point is understood and there is real attention to it. Then there's the volunteer scheme. Even in one block, different parts can be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u167	Yeah, I was comforted with four cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u168	Yeah, that's the nice thing about the tax system. That's about a lot of different things and that makes it so much fun, I think. Now we are going to talk about questions that Mr Omtzigt mentioned about the voluntary scheme. He actually said "I'll summarize him briefly "You have a voluntary scheme and there's an hourly rate of up to €4.50. Could something be done with the indexing of the past? In the end, it has to be voluntary work. We cannot stop volunteering at €25, because people can say: that is no longer voluntary, that is quite a nice salary. We have to take that into account. We have thought again and we think that we can indeed increase the hourly rate from €4.50 to €5 for volunteering. I am happy to say that to Mr Omtzigt. That's actually more than raising the last index he asked for. Here I would like to raise the hourly rate to €5 per hour, also in view of the importance we attach to volunteers. Mr Omtzigt also raised questions about the Bbz problem and about the compensation scheme in the Tax Plan. He had doubts as to whether this compensation could also provide relief for entrepreneurs who had fallen into debt restructuring. He asked me if I see any possibility of compensating this group in such a way that it can be quickly removed from debt restructuring. Let me say the following. The cabinet certainly has an eye for justice and feasibility and has opted for a generic compensation scheme for these cases. This one wasn't there yet. This compensation scheme applies through the Tax Office's surcharges to all entrepreneurs who had to deal with the recovery of surcharges due to their emerging GDP problems in the years 2014 to 2016. However, it is not possible for the Tax Administration to determine whether the recovery of the surcharges has caused certain economic operators to face financial difficulties, or perhaps even legal debt restructuring, or that other reasons have caused them to do so. If you don't keep it positive on balance, we can give you eight reasons and it's very difficult to say that cause six on balance was the reason. The IRS has to determine that. However, it is difficult to do so. I have already promised Mr Omtzigt, and I am going to do so once again, in consultation with the National Ombudsman, to see whether it is necessary and possible to do something additional to the proposed compensation scheme for this particular group so that, for example, it can be quickly removed from that debt restructuring. The contact with the National Ombudsman has already been established, and I will soon inform Mr Omtzigt and the rest of your Chamber in writing about the outcome of that consultation. For the viewers at home: I have now used the word "bbz" three times. This stands for Decision granting assistance to the self-employed. That was my first block, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u169	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I'm gonna lean on it for a little while and then I'm gonna have dinner break. Or should we take a short dinner break first? Now, let's suspend for dinner break. Then we'll see you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u170	The next item is the tax plan package 2019 plus the implementation of the first EU directive on anti-tax avoidance. The Secretary of State joined the second block in his first term. It's about business. Perhaps you can indicate if that is still divided into sub-blocks. I would like to point out to Members that interruptions are short questions, and I would like to agree with you that we are doing interruptions in two. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u171	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that I have arrived at the second block, that of business. Inside I have clustered the following topics. I shall begin with the policy priorities we have, including the SEO letter on transit into the Netherlands. Then there will be a block about the CFC scheme, which we have included in ATAD. There were some questions about the substance requirements, I think. The third block will be about the Earnings Stripping measures. The focus in our discussion was on the impact on housing companies. Then there's a small block that's more she or other. I will just start at the beginning, the Business Act 2019 and the implementation of the European directive ATAD 1 to prevent tax avoidance and evasion. We're taking a lot of action. Two of my policy priorities are actually in this package together. On the one hand, that makes and loves the Netherlands attractive to all companies that want to be active here, as long as it is real activities. On the other hand, this is a firm approach to tax evasion and avoidance. As I have said, these are two legislative proposals, which I will deal with in a number of blocks, as I have just mentioned. Let me start with the policy priorities. Mrs Lodders asked me once again very explicitly what I said earlier. She asked: is it true that we are keeping an eye on both the approach to tax avoidance and the locational climate, and that it cannot be so, and I can say straight away that I agree wholeheartedly with her that the people and the companies who simply want to be active here are really present here and want to pay their taxes properly should never suffer the consequences of the measures we are taking against companies that are here for another reason? That is actually in a nutshell, in good Dutch, exactly the core of how we see the system before us. We want to be attractive to those who come here to bring real jobs, to create real jobs, and thus to contribute seriously to paying taxes, because we need them to make the Netherlands a good country with the necessary welfare support. On the other hand, we want to address those companies that are sitting here for a different reason than, for example, the tax regime, and mostly the flow of debt. For the sake of clarity, I can say one more time: that is the most important balance we are seeking. Moreover, this Tax Plan is not the last step in that direction. We can also look forward to the interest and royalty withholding tax, on which we are going to deal with a legislative proposal next year. There will also be a legislative proposal for the implementation of ATAD 2. This is an important legislative proposal because it deals, for example, with the prevention of measures we call 'hybrid mismatches'. This is also a structure that has been widely used in the Netherlands to temporarily store tax at too low a rate. I would just like to say explicitly that Mrs Lodders was right; I have both priorities. Then there were some questions about the zero measurement of SEO. I sent a letter to the Chamber last week that actually tried to put the following in the picture. Let us say that we have the aim of tackling tax avoidance, especially when it goes to countries where a very low rate applies, because that is the main stream that we want to tackle. How can you measure that? That's what we asked SEO. They have come up with a comprehensive report in which they say: "Take a zero measurement of how much we know that goes on in it." There were a number of questions about that. Mrs Leijten had a question about the 22 billion and 177 billion. Mr Azarkan asked whether this zero measurement could also be used to monitor the effectiveness of the withholding tax. Mr Van Weyenberg had questions about a recent DNB bulletin, in which it appeared that 94% of the mailbox companies known to them had no employees at all. He asked if these would also be affected by our measure. Just a brief word about the results of that study, because there seemed to be a misunderstanding about it. They have therefore investigated the tax-relevant financial flows that go through the Netherlands, so that come into the Netherlands and go out of the Netherlands. You're talking mainly about the flows of dividends, interest and royalties. The calculation of SEO is as follows: We have 4,500 billion in balance sheet totals. That is what the FIs, the mailbox companies, have on the balance sheet and what is going to flow over that balance sheet. These are usually interest payments or royalty payments, but they can also be dividend payments. It's those streams that you have to take if you want to tax, because in those flows money slips through our fingers. The current generated from that balance sheet amounts to about 200 billion. Specifically, 199 billion in and 196 billion out. We can now calculate that of this outgoing stream, of the 199 billion, 22 billion goes to the low-taxing countries. In our legislative proposal, these are countries with a rate below 7%. But there are also ideas from the Chamber, but well, we will come to talk about this later, in order to increase that further. So we want to be very focused on hitting this stream at the time when we are going to come up with the withholding tax on interest and royalties. In fact, we hope and think it is our expectation that this stream will largely dry up, because you can see that many interest and royalty payments that end up in the Netherlands at once from a tax haven are often intended to avoid that tax. So these are the ones we can and want to take very focused action on. We can also monitor very well whether we are successful in doing so. That was an important new instrument for me to keep an eye on. But then there's a stream of about 177 billion left. These are flows of interest rates, royalties or dividends between countries with normal rates, i.e. above 7% and perhaps later a different rate, at least above the minimum rate. That's normal all the time. It's just companies that are active. That's normal, too. You can borrow together. So that's not a stream we're looking at as if it's suspicious. But it is also not the case that some of these flows cannot be abused. That is what Mrs Leijten rightly referred to, I think. So they don't get a "butt off" from us. We're gonna take a look at that, too. Only, we cannot say in advance how much of that comes from abuse. You don't know that. The following is also important if you're going to follow it. Can you establish a causal link between the measures we are proposing and this 177 billion? That's difficult, because there's no causal link. We may be very successful in dealing with it, but if it turns out that a large part of that 177 billion simply consists of flows in and out between very normal companies in normal countries, then we measure the wrong thing. But we are following those flows, and we will certainly continue to do so, because, in addition to the approach of interest and royalty withholding taxes, we have also focused our arrows on abuse situations. So it could well be that there are also 177 billion abuses that we are going to hit. Then you'll see it goes down. It's just complicated to make some kind of causal connection between them. So when I am asked what a good indicator is to look at, I say that the 22 billion is significantly better suited than the 177 billion. That doesn't mean we don't have to keep an eye on this one. We're gonna do that. And that other power too. And if there are developments that we do not understand or which we are reassured to see that they do produce something, then we will do deeper research and discuss them with the Chamber of Representatives. So it is certainly not the intention to see that 177 billion as a "butt free." Mr Azarkan had some more questions about the 4 500 billion for those letterbox companies. He did some sort of box 3 calculation on that and then came up with a very low amount. However, that was a little overridden by the fact that the tax-relevant flows are not the balance sheet values but the flows arising from that balance sheet, namely interest, royalty and dividend flows. If you look at that, apart from the fact that I do not think the Vpb is an appropriate tax to have a box 3 like situation, or a flat-rate tax, then you can see that the part we expect to pick up with that is actually not so crazy. So I guess that calculation went a little limp. His proposal, or perhaps his implied proposal to introduce a flat-rate levy on balance sheet totals for entrepreneurs, would therefore be rejected rather quickly, as this would, above all, lead to a heavier tax on companies which have real activities. I would like to say a little more about the ATAD 1 directive. There were a number of questions about that. I'm just trying to figure out which one I can do best. Actually, I think I'm gonna start with the CFC measure right away. There were most questions about this within the ATAD Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u172	The CFC, huh? That's the controlled foreign company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u173	That's very handsome, Mr. Chairman. I could have said that. It's called the Controlled Foreign Company, but that's actually a company that's really influenced by the country. The situation for the Netherlands, for example, can be such that in some low-tax countries there are all kinds of profits flowing from other countries, but that the Netherlands influences the e.g. in that low-taxed country where those flows go. Then this anti-abuse measure says: you have to do something about it. That's what ATAD does in general with a number of things. Here the discussion was mainly about the different ways in which you can look at it. These are the two models, model A and model B. The directive says: it is very good that the responsible country that is above that low-taxed entity takes responsibility. You normally do that to calculate those flows that actually belong to the company in the country that has influence. That's what you do by counting. The OECD has developed all kinds of principles for this, and that is what they call "at arm's length." In short, it must be reasonable in the ratio. So you cannot pretend that there is a lot of profit in the low-taxed country while all the work being done is in other countries. That is a fair observation. We're already doing model B. Many countries do not yet do so, but we do model B. We already count on the part in the Netherlands. But, says the directive, you could also opt for another way. So you leave that model B, which the OECD wants, standing and choosing model A. You then opt for a model in which you look more actively at the relationship between the company in the Netherlands and the CFC, the audited entity in the country underneath. You'll be on model A. What has the Netherlands done now? The Netherlands has now said: we do a bit of both. In doing so, we also gave substance to the large motion. So we keep that model B anyway, because certainly because we have a pretty good tax administration, we can do a lot. But just to be safe, we also want to do something in countries with a low tax rate; those are the countries we call tax havens. If there are no demonstrable, substantial activities there, we will also be raising the bill in those cases. We're gonna do that anyway. So the tax will be levied in the Netherlands. We had a number of questions about that discussion back then. Are we doing too little or are we doing less? No, we are doing model B - that is the part that the directive requires us to do - but we are also adopting an additional measure of model A. Again, that is exactly what the motion for a resolution calls for the cabinet to do, because it says: when implementing the CFC, a variant of model A must also be included in Dutch legislation. That is exactly what we have done. Well, of course there are questions about that. Is that enough when it comes to substance? And is the group of low-taxed countries the right group? Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Nijboer and Mr Azarkan had questions about the price chosen. We are now taking as our starting point: the nominal tax on profits in the country is less than 7% or the country is blacklisted from the OECD. These may also be countries that have a much higher rate, but refuse, for example, to comply with the standards that the OECD has for this purpose, for example in terms of exchange of information or transparency. Even in those cases, we say 7% or on that list. That is what we are going to do, and that is what we are going to do. Then you can ask why that isn't higher. Can't you do the withholding tax for 19% or 20%? There will soon be some kind of discussion, because it is difficult to do this in a European context. Within EU law, there is conflict: if it is not 100% clear that you have control over that company, it is not only free movement of goods but also free movement of capital. I'm trying to sum it up a little simple, but that's exactly why you can't just do it in the EU. The free movement of capital also applies to countries outside the EU. It was said: okay, we understand that there is a directive agreement, but does it not apply to countries outside the EU? The answer from lawyers is that it also applies to countries outside the EU. We cannot treat them differently in this area than the countries within the EU, which is why we have chosen and are going to introduce a rate that is acceptable in these same Member States at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u174	Is the Secretary of State sure that other countries do the same in this way? My estimate is that other countries are looking at EU countries and countries outside the European Union in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u175	Not everyone has the same system as we do, so comparing the systems is almost always limp. It may well be that some Member States have built up a system that shows that, looking closely at primary law, they are actually in breach of that primary law of the EU. If they do it that way, I suppose the rest would be the same. They're actually doing something that's gonna bother them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u176	And then what happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u177	They would then be in breach of EU law. Then they will have to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u178	This is weird. Is there no consultation between the different EU countries on exactly how to implement this measure in the context of ATAD? That's crazy. I have the impression that other countries are introducing this in a different way. They therefore have higher rates for non-EU countries. The Secretary of State says you can't, but other countries do. This does not seem to me to be conducive to tackling tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u179	I understand that question, but on balance, that's what's happening. We are dealing with EU law as we see it. I'm not gonna say the other countries are doing it wrong. I don't know. I really do not know enough about that, because I do not know enough systems for that. We have had explicit discussions about this and this is the state of mind in the Netherlands with regard to EU law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u180	That model A, not fully introduced while your environment does, makes it more attractive to use the Netherlands for tax avoidance. I have actually asked questions about this before to the Secretary of State. With these substance requirements, the State Secretary makes exceptions for the subsidiaries controlled by a corporate structure, if those subsidiaries are established in tax havens. Doesn't that make the implementation of this law much more complicated? That actually contradicts his initial quote: I want the law to be simple and enforceable. Wouldn't it make much more sense for you to take out the exception based on the substance requirement? You just can't have a tax haven in your construction. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u181	I have a few more answers in which I explicitly address this issue, but I will respond to this right now. I think that's tricky, because then you have to prove that it's really a meant structure. You can't just do that. You could have a low-tax country. Actually, Mrs Leijten says that nothing should go there anyway. But that's not true, because you can have a very real enterprise in that country. It's not wrong that that happens either. We're just saying you have some explaining to do if there's no real activity, if that substance isn't there. This also has to do with the debate on open standards that we are about to have. At the time when the other country says that it is not at all so, that what they are doing is not a structure but simply following the policy model or whatever you want to call it, then they can ask for a counter-proofing scheme. That is often difficult, because then the Tax Administration has to prove that what they are doing is purely and simply a structure. We know from case law and practice that this is not helping us. On the contrary, that helps the others we want to deal with. That's what I've been trying to explain. It's not like I'm thinking, leave it, let's go! I'm just warning you about this. The moment you go that way, it might be counterproductive. The counter-proofing system that can be invoked by these companies does not help us to catch them. And I want to get them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u182	A brief follow-up question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u183	If it were so obvious that these consequences would be there, wouldn't everyone implement it that way? But here the Netherlands is again one of the few countries that do so, and thus it opens the shortcut for tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u184	The latter is exactly the misunderstanding. It is not the case that many other countries have much higher substance requirements. In fact, the Netherlands is one of the countries with the highest substance requirements. If you go further into that, many other countries say that you are going in a direction they would not want, because then they will have the same burden of proof. So that's really a misunderstanding. Mr Snels had also specifically asked for the CFC to be included in the CFC measure for CFCs in third countries. I have just explained that this is not possible, especially since there can sometimes be no decisive control. That's the legal term I was just looking for. As a result, the CFC measure is also subject to the free movement of capital. This freedom of movement applies at the same time in relation to third countries. A distinction can only be made between EU countries and EEA countries, European Economic Area countries and third countries, if there is a justification for this. This justification is lacking in the current state of the case law. Therefore, if that is the legal weighting, then you also apply the same test rate for third countries as for the EU countries. Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten asked questions about essential economic activities. We have already touched the debate on this too. They asked why the CFC measure is covered by the free movement of capital. I have already anticipated why we believe that this is the case, but perhaps I need to be more precise. The Netherlands has included in the additional CFC measure an exception for CFCs carrying out a substantial economic activity. That's the substance exception. We really want to see something seriously happening. This exception applies to CFCs in the EU and in third countries. In the design of the additional CFC measure, the Netherlands is bound by the obligations arising from the Directive itself, but also by primary EU law. Although the directive itself offers the possibility, on the basis of that analysis we come to the conclusion that the substance exception cannot be limited in EU and EEA situations. And yes, that is actually an observation. That is possible, then, a directive which is contrary to primary law. I would also like to admit that this does not look very good for European legislation. Perhaps it has to do with the fact that due to the great speed with which the Netherlands has called for the implementation of the ATAD Directive, these legal consequences have not yet been seen in detail. That, I think, is more the technical direction. I'm also a little wiser after these days; but that's what's behind it. On the same point, Mrs Leijten also asked about the specific Article 64 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is in line with the answer I have given for this, but for the sake of completeness I want to give it anyway, so that it does not come up with the image that I do not want to answer all the good questions. The answer is that secondary EU law must not conflict with primary EU law. That is the starting point. So the ATAD 1 directive or the national legislation based on it must never conflict with the free movement of capital. Article 64 (3) of the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Ms Leijten said that "the Council is indeed a legal basis for taking measures to restrict capital movements with third countries." That's right. This is a derogation in EU legislation, directives, regulations or decisions. That could be far-reaching. However, there is a specific procedure for this. For example, in order to invoke this Article, all Member States must agree to the restrictive measure. This was not chosen for the implementation of ATAD 1. A different legal basis has been chosen for ATAD 1. So the Netherlands cannot then say unilaterally: we actually think that this directive should have been based on Article 64 (3) which Mrs Leijten referred to, because then we are unilaterally trying to restrict capital movements with third countries. This is a different legal basis from that chosen at European level in the drafting of the directive. That's why. Mr Omtzig asked what progress has been made in the European negotiations on the anti-abuse provisions in the interest and royalty directives. The short summary of this is: they are wall-to-wall. We've been working on this for quite some time. There is considerable disagreement in the Council about the introduction of the minimum rate in this directive, a well-known debate in Europe. As soon as we jointly try to agree minimum rates, the EU decision-making mechanism will be somewhat closed. Several presidencies, including those active under the Dutch Presidency, have already tried to make this dossier work smoothly, but the contradictions have always proved to be too great. In fact, they just seemed to get bigger every now and then. That is why we believe that the Austrian Presidency has not tried to set it up for their term. Then there are the questions of open standards and the concrete implementation of the substance requirements. This discussion came back a few times and I find academically very interesting, but I will try to limit myself somewhat. In fact, the question was why other Member States could make use of this, while in the Netherlands we chose to do so in practice all the time. I'm going to summarize the question a little bit, but I think that's what he's asking. With an open standard for substance requirements for companies outside the Netherlands, as proposed in this CFC rule, I am very reluctant. I also try to put the emphasis on "outside the Netherlands." When it comes to measuring concrete things outside the Netherlands, through standards or not, open standards in general certainly lead to a lot of legal uncertainty. 'Cause then what is it, what does that mean? By the way, it is not at all bad for taxpayers who settle in the Netherlands for tax reasons to put that uncertainty in the way. That's what I'm saying. We would all perhaps not mind so much. But then I look at Mrs Lodder's comment at the beginning, and I note that good-willing taxpayers may also have to do with that open standard. For them, too, legal uncertainty is generally not favourable when it comes to making choices. And we don't want to. We want to continue to make very conscious use of an open standard at a time when we have a view of it ourselves and can quickly clarify what it means for, for example, the real business community. We want to be very careful that the administrative burden on companies and the implementation burden on the Tax Administration is not made significant by such an open standard. And I am not even talking about the review of that standard in situations in countries far outside the Netherlands. That is, of course, difficult enough. Mr Bruins and Mr Snels asked whether the substance requirements could not be adjusted according to the size of companies. You could say: we have one substance standard, but it doesn't matter if you have 5 employees or 5,000. Then why would the substance standard be the same? Again, in itself, the increase in substance requirements is in principle possible. In fact, this makes the sense of safe-harbour that arises differently less easily accessible. That is a good objective in itself. It is only without prejudice that Member States must continue to comply with this newly appointed primary EU law. It also follows that an anti-abuse clause such as the CFC measure can only be applied if there is an entirely artificial construction according to the legal definition. I just gave an example of that. In general, it cannot be said that the substance requirements for small businesses are too heavy and too low for large companies. There's no general rule for that. Therefore, heavier substance requirements can only be included if there is also a possibility of counter-proofing in order to avoid conflict with EU law. Here is actually the same logic that we just had at hand. Asked how, for example, they do this in Germany. That is actually the example I would like to cite, because the European Court of Justice has ruled correctly in a large German case. It ultimately used that possibility of counter-proofing by the taxpayer, which was not conducive to tackling that tax avoidance. We therefore believe that, following this judgment, taxpayers will have to rely on this counter-proofing system even more often. That is why I do not want to put the horse behind the car when it comes to new standards, open standards, but also when it comes to increasing substance requirements. I think that this is exactly the opposite of what is being done to business. Mrs Lodders also asked about the CFC rule whether, in the case of a broken financial year, it does not actually start until the first financial year starting on or after 1 January 2019. I've promised before. The answer is as clear as possible yes. I can confirm that this is indeed the case. On the basis of the Implementation Act proposal ATAD 1, the CFC measure will be applied for the first time in the financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. That is just hard to deal with in the implementation bill. This also means that the rule for a person with a broken financial year, for example, from 1 May 2018 to 30 April 2019, will only apply in the financial year beginning on 1 May 2019. In short, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u185	A brief question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u186	I think we lost the viewer at home. This always goes in such a technical language! You can also talk about companies that organize their business in such a way that they pay as little tax as possible. That is precisely what has been agreed that we no longer want to do so, and yet the Netherlands is going to make exceptions again. It annoys me immeasurably. And then the Secretary of State says: no, but I cannot go to open standards for what are essential economic activities. Why can Italy, Austria, Lithuania, Finland and Poland do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u187	It's not about being able. We are trying to set up a system and I will try again to explain that. I have not just made all the advertising for my measures, but the suggestion that Mrs Leijten has consistently raised that we are getting away with it is really bullshit. I'm just gonna say it now. What are we doing? We implement ATAD 1 in a more stringent way than the minima oblige us. We do this in three different ways; we have discussed it extensively. All the time suggesting that we do less because we choose something else than other countries is a non-argument. We are trying to tackle as much as possible and as hard and as firmly as possible those currents that we want to get rid of. Of course, you can consistently try to put it down in such a way that there can always be more. Sure, we can always do more. I also like to be called upon to be even more ambitious in my agenda. If the planning agency says "this Secretary of State is doing well, but it still has to go a lot further," then I think that is a good suggestion. I'm happy about that, because I can work with that. But the consistent suggestion that we are getting away with the implementation is simply wrong. Mrs Leijten asked me very technical questions and I give them technical answers. I didn't bring up Rule 64 (3)! She asked me questions, and I answer them, and then she pretends that my complicated answer is an attempt to create confusion and to deceive the poor citizen. So it's not like that. I'm working on an agenda here to tackle tax avoidance. I do, and I do it solidly. And I'm not just gonna be told that I'm walking away from it all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u188	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u189	The question was why there can be no open standards if other countries do the same. The Secretary of State can do a little pecking, but he'll open the back door. He says, "I can't do it anymore. You can't use tax havens anymore, but I'll open a few back doors for you. Go ahead." Now I would like to answer my question about these essential economic activities. This could not be done on the basis of open standards, but why do countries like Italy, Austria, Lithuania, Finland, France, Poland and a few others do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u190	The short answer to that is: you have to ask those countries. I have just said a few times about this that the systems are different and that the choices are different. That's the way it is. We choose the system that we think works best. If you have a different system, I would like to see your proposals on how to do this differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u191	That's exactly what I did. I said, you have to get that essential economic activity requirement out of there. The moment you have a tax haven in your corporate structure, you have to apply this CFC rule. That's easy to implement. Then you reverse the burden of proof, a company doesn't have to follow a checklist and we no longer have to whistle for tax revenue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u192	Mr President, I will give the answer for the third time. I have now done this twice in the direction of Mr Snels and I am going to do it again in the direction of Mrs Leijten. The reason why we have doubts about these open standards is because of EU law. We think we know, and I think we know this well, that we cannot demonstrate that a conscious construction has been chosen when we make it too difficult. So that company has the right to ask for a counter-proofing scheme, and we know from practice that that is difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u193	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u194	I will simply summarise it very briefly: the proposal made by Mrs Leijten leads to more tax avoidance than the proposal I am making, because we are more effective in tackling it. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Azarkan then had questions about the Azarkan motion on real activities. How's that going? It is true that Mr Azarkan's motion calls for consideration of whether the substance requirements could be made dependent on the size and content of the activities of a company applying for a tax rotation. This is about substance in the Netherlands. That was a good question and I also indicated that I would like to examine it. I shall be sending the Chamber this month with a little bit of luck that even next week, a letter on the revision of the ruling practice in which I will also comment on Mr Azarkan's motion. Then I come to Earnings stripping; another technical measure, Mr President, I am sorry. The main purpose of this measure is to ensure that companies do not overfill themselves with loans, the cost of which can then be deducted from their profits. So it's about sucking in with debt. This is also what we consider to be tax avoidance, and a measure has been taken for this in the ATAD directive called "earnings stripping'. Mr Snels actually asked: does the cabinet implement Earnings stripping or not strictly? I was very pleased with this question, because it is in line with what I have just said. The cabinet opts for a robust design of this Earnings Stripping measure in the implementation process. This design goes considerably further than the European standard of ATAD in three respects; I shall now say that. In this way, the cabinet does not accept a group exception. There was that possibility, but we don't. We do not provide for respect for the past, and we lower the threshold where it was possible: from 3 million to a level of 1 million. I would like to say straight away that the EUR 1 million limit is still important because it will at least spare the majority of SMEs from this measure. At the same time, the Cabinet attaches great importance to maintaining an important part of our package, which is to keep our locational environment attractive. That is why we do not go beyond the 30% standard, for example. There was another question about that. To clarify, I would like to say a few words about the subdivision. A question has been asked about this, which we can now answer. What do these fundamentalists mean for small and medium-sized enterprises? In this case, 33% of the budgetary revenue is expected to be generated by large companies and only 7% by SMEs. Then Mr Omtzigt had another question about earnings stripping in relation to non-deductible interest charges in one year and their transfer in the other years. He asked why, as it is called, this continued interest burden cannot be offset in the following year by the interest income in that year itself. The answer is that the balance of interest costs and interest income is determined annually. This therefore does not take into account any interest passed on from previous years. This annual approach, as we call it, means that the same interest charge cannot be taken into account twice in the balance. That's why we're doing this. Moreover, I would point out to Mr Omtzigt that the interest not deducted from an old year can still be taken into account. This is a very specific case, but Mr Omtzigt might have mentioned it. For this reason, it is not the balance mentioned above that is important, but the scope for the deduction that still exists must be assessed. Well, that's a specific possibility. That allowance is available where the balance of interest for the year is less than 30% of the adjusted profit..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... His second question, which immediately follows, was whether in that case I could confirm that interest income could never be part of this EBITDA base. The answer is loud and clear: yes, I can confirm that. It can't be. In determining this base, tax profits are adjusted for the balance of interest costs and interest income. In other words, this balance does not affect the EBITDA. I have thus been able to answer his question in the affirmative. In this same block there was a broader discussion about housing corporations. They are also affected by the Earnings Stripping measure, because a large part of their financing is from debt. Mrs Leijten and Mr Nijboer asked a number of questions about the inclusion of an exception in ATAD. The discussion about this tax concession for housing corporations is not new, as I explained to them earlier. Since the introduction of the integral Vpb obligation for housing corporations in 2008, it has been coming up with some regularity. The reason behind the fact that we chose at the time to introduce the full Vpb obligation is that corporate tax should be levied on the profits of companies. When the entire business of the corporations is considered, corporations cannot be treated differently from other companies. For this purpose, the integral Vpb obligation applies to all activities and is still in force. So much for why it is actually covered by this directive. Mrs Leijten then asks why exemption should not be included. After all, the European Commission has said that there is no state aid when the activities of the housing corporations are linked to activities that are regarded as services of general economic interest (SGEI)? The answer is that in this context the cabinet sees a parallel with the design of the Vpb obligation for housing corporations, which I was just talking about. In that context, for example, it was asked in 2017 whether an exemption could be introduced to the extent that those activities see on this service of general economic interest. However, my predecessor explained in detail in his letter of 30 March 2017 that in 2008 the full Vpb obligation for housing corporations was also introduced because the exemption in the Vpb for housing corporations was considered by the European Commission to be prohibited State aid. This is partly because, from a fiscal point of view, housing corporations could hardly be qualified differently from other companies. And not least because the housing corporations compete with private providers in relation to these SGEI activities. And that is an important observation. The Commission has already established in December 2009 that housing companies are sufficiently compensated for their SGEI activities. So that was in a distant past. If anything is added, e.g. an adjustment in the Vpb obligation or, in this case, an exception to the Earnings Stripping measure, this will be qualified by the Commission as State aid, thus having to be submitted to the European Commission. That is the link we make all the time between the Vpb obligation and the SGEI activities. And that is why we thought, and still think, that an exception will lead to a conclusion from the Commission which is the same as the Commission's conclusion in the past and is also the same as my predecessor's conclusion, namely that we are not optimistic about a positive response from the Commission. Therefore, another concession was chosen for this group, i.e. through the landlord levy. And no, I say to Mr Nijboer, that is not total compensation, as if they were totally exempted, it is 353 million versus 100 million................................................................................................................................................................................... I would add that the amount of 100 million was not so high either because we already took other measures which were beneficial to housing companies, for example the reduction in corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u195	The Secretary of State said last week that the European Commission is not allowed to exempt the housing corporations of ATAD and that there is an opinion on this. But do I now come from his answer that he did not ask for that advice because he thinks that the answer will be negative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u196	There's no advice. I've already...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u197	Then why was that said to us last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u198	Mr President, I would almost say: excuse me! You use the word "advisory," Mrs Leijten. We talked last week and this week about the way it was going. You said, "Can I see exactly how it all went?" I said that I was going to tell you with many forms of love how it went, but that I was not going to give you the contacts that have been between the official services. Then I explained in my written answers 'where I would have given rise to the suggestion that I would never want to share anything that goes from the Commission to us or vice versa, that is not true. That's what I suggested too generously." But it is true that traffic between the Commission's officials and our officials has been carefully asked: we know about those earlier requests for directives and we want to know, for example, about public infrastructure projects that were also discussed at the time. That is what we have from the Commission... Mr President, there is sighing and support, but I am simply trying to tell you what happened. This was explained by the Commission as to what public infrastructure is and what is not. From this we could see that the Commission would not have changed its opinion on whether or not Vpb is subject to registration, whether or not it can include an exception in the Vpb. Well, that's where the measures, like lowering the landlord's tax, came out. That's how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u199	That's a very long answer for: no, I didn't ask for advice. I think that is a very bad thing, because that suggestion was raised on Friday: Europe must not allow it. Then I'm gonna ask you to show me. No, an interpretation has been made of what would have been said in 2009. And then he says here: it is not allowed under EU law. That's what he just said about the CFC measure, which comes from Europe. Hiding behind EU law is really weak. An opinion of the European Commission from 2009 is not binding. It's an advice. There is no prohibition. It would be possible for it to be state aid. Why does the Secretary of State say that it is not allowed by Europe, when he does not seek advice and when he tries to find no exception at all for housing corporations? He's just sending us here with half-truths into the woods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u200	I would, of course, strongly deny that, because it is not. The word "advisory" just started to play. That's what I'd have said. But I don't think you call that advice at all in these cases. You have legislation, and that's what you're suggesting. This is being assessed under European law. This has been done several times, not only around the Vpb obligation, but also earlier around activities of general economic interest, the SGEI activities. The Commission has been quite clear on this. This is not an official request for advice. You're just having discussions, there's legislation, there's a plan. The same applies to the motion we have just adopted on broad weather insurance. The broad weather insurance is a proposal for exemption from insurance tax. If we do that for a specific group, then we know that we run the risk of the Commission saying: why should you as a government give one group a certain advantage and not another? This is particularly true at the moment, as I say to Mrs Leijten, for example, where there is competition between Group A and Group B. In this case, the Commission has already concluded several times that housing companies, with the activities they generally do, compete with others. At that time, the State aid rules apply. Then we ask whether there is another possibility of exemption in a particular directive. That's what we suspected. Then Mrs Leijten says: you didn't want that anyway. But we wanted to. We wanted to see if there was an exemption possible for various activities. This was about pps's, the partnerships between public and private parties, but it was also about housing corporations. That has been contacted, but not through an official request for advice, in which we have tested again how things are. But we weren't getting any other signal than we'd estimated to get ourselves. It's not like we don't get it. We understand very well what they're saying. Now a bit of the idea arises as if we went into it beforehand with the idea of: we do not do that. It doesn't make sense to assume that we'd be in it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u201	That's the point you made. Mrs. Leijten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u202	I'm getting a little tired of this explanation that's different every time. Whether or not there is a ban, it can never come from the Commission, it should always be from the EU Court. But there isn't. So don't screen with it. Of course, it is a political choice to set up housing corporations in such a way that they would be a competitor of ordinary real estate entrepreneurs. But that is because housing corporations need to be reduced above all and above all the social housing sector needs to be helped to the gallemies. But don't tell me you did your best for a sector if you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u203	Mr. Chairman. I've done my best for this sector. Only in this way could we achieve nothing. That is why we have chosen to achieve it in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u204	You may be surprised, but I did not go into national politics to combat European directives and their interpretation, so I will leave that discussion aside. What I would like to tell the Secretary of State is that if he had granted that exemption, 363 million less would have to be paid. The second thing I find unfair is that the Secretary of State says that they also benefit from the reduction in corporation tax. So, on the one hand, they count as companies and cannot be excluded because of that directive and all the complicated things you talked about, Mrs Leijten. On the other hand, you say: we give the advantage to all companies, but we actually take it away from the housing corporations; we deal with that in compensation; I do not think that is entirely fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u205	I think we're calculating it fairly. We tried to explain in an earlier table what happened for the housing corporations. For example, you can see that the ATAD Directive is an increase for them: 100 million in 2019, structurally rising to the 353 million that Mr Nijboer was talking about. At the same time, we are giving a reduction in corporate tax rates, which, for example, leads to a reduction in the burden of 65 million at the end of this cabinet period. Or a tariff reduction in the landlord's tax, which gives us a charge relief of 100 million. Or a sustainability in the landlord's tax, for which we have structurally released 100 million. If you add that up, you can see that in the years of the cabinet the investment capacity for these housing corporations increases, because they have to pay less taxes on balance than before. Mr Nijboer can say that it is a structural increase of 40 million. That is true, but it is not the case that, during this cabinet period, we were unaware of the consequences of the ATAD Directive and of the fact that we could not exempt housing companies. That, of course, was what we were discussing. The fact that we are ultimately looking for a structural balance in a cabinet period is indeed a kind of political choice which we then make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u206	This measure will result in a structural deterioration of housing corporations. Then the tenants pay the social housing sector. That is a political choice, and I think that is a bad choice. The EUR 100 million that the government allocated to sustainability under the government agreement is also presented here as compensation for this measure, but then, of course, the EUR 100 million will no longer be there for sustainability. Or there is and that 100 million has to be paid. That's true, isn't it, even during this cabinet period? It can't be both, can it? It's not about compensation and sustainability, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u207	No. I don't think we disagree on the sum here. I understand what Mr Nijboer is saying, because he has not turned his heart into a murder pit. He had chosen to give more for that. I do not recognize the whole idea that we were created here to bully these groups. At the same time, I believe that we recognise the importance of corporations in the future, for example in making the entire housing stock more sustainable. We cannot do that without the help of the corporations. I understand why they say you're offering us 100 million on the one hand, but on the other hand you're taking it back. If you add the amounts together, it's true. In fact, the impact of the ATAD Directive on housing corporations was stronger than we initially thought. That is why, for example, we have made additional money available in the decisions on the Millions Note, in order to meet part of it. I get it. We can have a different political weighting in that. He would have done more, and I accept that. But I just wanted to take away the picture that we had only done our best to bully this sector. No, it's an important group that we're gonna need in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u208	The bullying could have been even bigger, the bill could have been even higher, because it has been allocated 100 million, but on balance housing corporations are structurally declining and the 100 million for sustainability has also been included in the sum announced for this cabinet period. I think so... Kind of skinny, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u209	On the other hand, at least in our cabinet period, they do not go backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u210	Mr Omtzigt also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u211	Thank you for the last commitment that they will not deteriorate during this cabinet period. Could the Secretary of State report to the next two budgets by default whether the realisations in the paid Vpb correspond to the expectations? There's quite a big gap between what the sector thinks they're paying to Vpb in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 and what the ministry estimates. At some point there are 300 million, 400 million in between, so it's not about rounding mistakes. Is the Secretary of State prepared to report on this in the next tax plans, so that we know who is ultimately right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u212	In my view, we are not reporting on this in a tax plan, but rather in the budget notes that also appear in the Chamber. That's what it's for. But if your call is whether we can follow that a little bit because these differences are large, then that's fine. We can do that. We also want to know what that means. Moreover, I assume that the housing corporations themselves will not forget it, and that if they were more right with their estimates than we are, they will throw it at us. It's good to follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u213	Thank you. Then we just get to one of those notes every year to see what those realizations were according to the Ministry and then we can compare them again. I have seen that in the past the housing corporations have been wrong, so I am not saying who is right here. But because the difference here is so great, it can have a real impact on the impact of housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u214	Again, I just want to make that commitment. For the sake of clarity, I will indicate annually how much the housing corporations pay for corporation tax and for landlord tax. Then let's take it, because I think that's a good thing. The only small warning I give is that we know that the tax year data of this sector are relatively well known. So sometimes it gets over before we get this. We do not have those figures on 2 January, but the point is that from now on we will follow it every year as soon as we have those figures and then we can discuss them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u215	Thank you. I think you'd have gotten your sub-block in the second block, the block of companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u216	That's right, Mr. Chairman. It's like you're watching my papers. Does he? There's cameras all over the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u217	You should know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u218	Exactly. You should know. No, I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u219	Wait. I can see that Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party has one final short question about the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u220	Yeah, that's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unless the Secretary of State comes back to those specific questions we asked about ING and Pfizer, which are also related to avoidance and avoidance constructions. Otherwise, I'd like to suggest it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u221	I have just heard names of companies in questions. I am not going to say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u222	Fine. I'll ask the questions now. I think that's best. Mr President, I hear all kinds of laughter in the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u223	You've received some kind of warning from the Secretary of State about what he's responding to and not responding to. You could take advantage of that in asking your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u224	I'm definitely gonna do that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the debate I just heard between the Secretary of State and the SP, Mrs Leijten. That's an easy question, so he can probably say something about that. What we expect if the Secretary of State is right, why wouldn't he? This will soon appear in the journals in which accountants write and in which the financial world writes articles about how much stricter and probably how much more effective the Dutch approach is than that of the other countries. Does the Secretary of State share that prophecy with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u225	I was just checking to see if I had answers to that somewhere in my other block, but I can't find that so quickly. There was a question, however, that I am trying to find out whether the Tax Administration is acting in general against companies that do not comply with their tax obligations. I was just trying to see if I could be of service to you on that previous question. This is not about these companies, but in general. Then I'll pull it out of the general block. You asked whether the Tax Administration would like to take action against companies that did not comply with their tax obligations and whether, if necessary, too little paid tax would then be recovered. The Tax Administration does indeed monitor the correct compliance with all tax laws and regulations. If it turns out that a taxable person does not comply with the laws and regulations, the Tax Administration corrects the tax return or, in this case, he could make a subsequent claim. Therefore, the tax paid too little will be recovered. In general, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u226	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. Then the tax inspector will know what to do. In fact, the Secretary of State himself gives a hint in public and I would like to repeat it once again, because the Secretary of State is now curious about what I am referring to. He writes in response to the questions about a medical company, let me put it this way in public that in recent years, companies have been able to postpone or adjust taxation by means of international circumvention structures, which means that the costs of general services, including medical care, are passed on to citizens and businesses who simply fulfil their tax obligations. That suggests, that gives a hint that the company it is talking about may not have done so, that that company has not fulfilled its obligations, because others have. Then there is the clarifying question: is that one of those signals that a tax inspector might have to go to work with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u227	For all the clarity, the inspector is ultimately about the bombing investment and I'm not. No matter what I say, it's totally irrelevant, because I'm not in charge of that. I can't say that enough. So we can never answer these kinds of questions that then arise. We understand that sometimes that is annoying because it has been in the media, but I do not want to, because I do not know the case either. If there are discussions about whether or not to pay enough tax, I would like to point out time and time again that I attach great importance to the fact that anyone who wants to be active in Dutch society, whether it is a citizen or a company, has to pay a decent tax. For we have all kinds of provisions, which we can only pay because everyone pays taxes. If someone withdraws from it, I do not mind taking a little bit of action now and then. Only, I can never do that in individual cases, so I couldn't have hinted at that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u228	Clear. Very briefly, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u229	I fully understand that. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the answer. So that means that others can get to work with that. That's gonna finish this piece. I had actually asked the Secretary of State a question when he was looking for something to say. I get the feeling he didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u230	No, I didn't notice that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u231	You'll be able to repeat that briefly, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u232	Thank you. There was just a debate between Mrs Leijten and the Secretary of State on what approach to circumvention is more effective. Let me briefly summarize, although I do not have enough: mine is better than yours in terms of approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u233	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u234	The question is actually whether the Secretary of State supports the hypothesis that we will soon be reading in all kinds of journals that the approach of the Secretary of State is not A or B but a combination is generally more effective...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u235	Okay. The question is whether we're going to read in trade magazines or...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u236	Are we gonna read that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u237	... your approach is more effective. Well, I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u238	That will not be very soon, because such a measure must, of course, first be laid down in legislation. But I certainly hope that with the effort that we are now making quite massively, we will make a real leap forward. And again, this is recognised not only by me but also internationally as a courageous step forward by a country that has been called "too helpful" in structures in the past. The fact that the Commission did so may still be true, but the OECD, in particular, which I really see as an authority in this area, has said so several times in an interview through the director of the management concerned. I also liked the fact that the New York Times in America also paid quite a lot of attention to the new model that the Netherlands wants to choose. This ignores model A or model B and the discussion between Mrs Leijten and me, but it does point out that in other countries too we are really working on special legislation. And of course everyone will say: see first then believe. I'm right about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u240	So we have two measurements: we have a zero measurement and we have an international measurement...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u241	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u242	...that we can face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u243	Mr. Ommzigt, even briefly at this point? You also want to know what's in the magazines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u244	No, I'm also going to ask a question that I've been told in advance wouldn't be answered, but I'm going to try anyway. We also have questions about the only system bank rich in the Netherlands. It consists of three letters: an N, an I and a G. We referred to a document they filed with the SEC. In it, accountant EY reports on February 29, 2016, a leap day. Someone must also be shocked... that those accounts need to be revised. That's about a 180-billion-dollar review. The Secretary of State cannot say anything about this, because it is an individual taxpayer. But can I assume that the tax inspector who is talking about this has also seen it when we refer to such a document and revision in Parliamentary questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u245	In general terms, it is usually the case that when the Chamber or anyone else tells us "do you know, by the way..." the inspector in question, if we ask him to do so, was, of course, involved in something for a long time in many cases. Whether that was the case in this case, with this random bank you mention, I do not know and I do not want to know at the moment. I know that you have asked parliamentary questions about this, and we are going to answer them seriously and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u246	The first set of parliamentary questions has been answered seriously, so I do not expect that to happen. But that's why I'm repeating it. I am saying this literal phrase 'know you' and I assume that this will see through to the tax inspector whose office that should end up on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u247	For all the sharpness in that, it's usually that the inspector knows something without me knowing. It's not like the inspector knows now, because you're asking me now. I think we've exchanged enough on this, I guess. Mr. Chairman. Then I have some questions about interest and royalty payments and Mr Van Weyenberg's withholding tax. Mr Azarkan also had questions about this. Mr Van Weyenberg asked if I would table the bill to introduce a withholding tax on interest and royalty payments to low-tax jurisdictions early next year. Mr Azarkan actually asked why it must take so long and why it cannot be done tomorrow. We are very busy working on this measure right now. It is the first time we have introduced such a tax in the Netherlands. This means that a completely new basis, including legal one, must be found on which we must all legislate. That's incredibly difficult. At the same time, we are extremely ambitious to ensure that this is successful. I'm not gonna say this is gonna work out in the beginning of next year. There's no way we can promise that here. I continue to strive, and have said so before, to have submitted it for Princess's Day and as much earlier as we are done. But we really need to be careful, because it is so important that this works and that it is good that we should not let speed be the enemy of good legislation. I'm super ambitious in this. The sooner and better we can do this, the sooner I will. At the same time, I say to Mr Azarkan that it will take until 2021 for him to be able to enter into force, because this measure also has a new basis and the Tax Administration will have to set up a completely new process and system for such a measure, because we cannot go into anything existing. It'll take time. We share that with the Chamber. That has to do with parameters. We need plenty of time for that and we can't do that in a year. Hence the failure to enter into force before 1 January 2021. By the way, I would like to say straight away that the intention in the coalition agreement was, once, 2023. So we have already accelerated this by two years, because I think it is so important that we take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u248	We had a law on withholding tax 2020. This became a business package 2019, as 1.9 billion went from business to business. That bill already included a withholding tax that was introduced for dividend. Isn't that just copy-paste for interest and royalties? Why does it take so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u249	I invite Mrs Leijten with great love to have a look at legislation for once. I'd almost say I wish it had been that simple. Of course, we are going to play loan neighbor to what we already did for the dividend tax. In fact, I know that it has been said at the Tax Office: if we are to set up this new directive, then we are sure that we will get about the same system, because we were already preparing for that withholding tax for dividends. Mrs Leijten simply has a point. Yes, of course we're going to play as much loan as possible, but we can't finish legislation as a cookie factory within two months. I'll tell everyone we're gonna do it as soon as possible, but it's got to work. I think that, in the end, Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Weyenberg also want this measure to be effective. Then there was one more question from Mr Azarkan, which I do not think I have answered, concerning the assessment of the extent of evasion. We have talked about this a number of times in the past, as we have done in relation to the 177 billion. The question is whether we can make an assessment of tax evasion. It may be disappointing for Mr Azarkan, but I really do not have any information on the extent of tax evasion. That's what's in it, actually, that if taxes are evaded, then you're not. We can make a very rough assessment of that, but in all honesty: there are countries that sometimes try, but they always come out cheated. So I really don't have any reliable data to do anything with this seriously. That brings me to the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u250	Before we go to the block of fiscal greening, a short question from Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u251	I may have missed it, but the Secretary of State has already announced in the previous legislative consultation that he will monitor exactly how other countries are implementing that directive. We have just had a number of debates about relative substance, more open standards, model A. I am very much aware that the systems are different and that the Secretary of State says that this is really the most effective form, but he has made that commitment before. I was wondering if he had any indication that he wouldn't have to do that out of his head right now if we could get a picture of that. Because I am still very interested in whether we can continue to see in the coming period whether other countries might come up with smarter ideas than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u252	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg is quite right about that. Of course, we always have to see if we can't learn from the neighbors. If I have time for this soon, I will go for the first time on some kind of study visit outside the Netherlands. So far, I have only been in Brussels for the Ecofin Council. I'd like to see if there are any other systems. We are pursuing through the OECD a number of countries that we believe have developed interesting ideas, for example, about implementation but also about tax evasion, and we want to look at them. In any case, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg that we will monitor how the other countries will implement the directive. Most countries have not yet implemented this directive; fortunately we are not lagging behind. Once they do, we're gonna monitor that, and then we can make the Chamber part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u253	Thank you. I've just understood the Secretary of State. In a rather passionate debate with Mrs Leijten he said: I really have more faith in what I do is more effective than what other countries do. But if we come across anything more effective, I don't think he'll hesitate to report back here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u254	That's how Mr Van Weyenberg knows me. You must never stop thinking. I have a policy objective, namely tackling mailboxes and streamers, and I will do everything I can to be as successful as possible in the time I can be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u255	Mr. Snels has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u256	I shared the frustration that we do not yet have a picture of what other countries are already doing. So I thank the Secretary of State for that monitor. I was already preparing a motion on this and my question is as follows. If the Chamber is informed, then there will also be a certain evaluation and eventually a judgment as to whether Dutch measures might be strengthened in that case. Could that be included in a monitor like that? If the Secretary of State agrees to this, I will withdraw my motion immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u257	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u258	I'm always so scared of this. I'm going to visualize that; I think that's important. Again, I want to continue to learn from the countries around us. We shouldn't be so arrogant to think we can't. We're gonna monitor that. At the same time, I also know that there are always system differences, which put it one-on-one in a table next to each other of the ways in which they do so... I dare say that I am the first in Europe to monitor this 22 billion-dollar stream. I sincerely believe that these other countries have not yet done so and that they have not yet done so. But maybe it is and they are doing it more effectively; then I'm going to learn from it. But to immediately link the suggestion that what we are doing can probably be improved, I always find a little... I'm sorry to say that, but should we check it out first and see what it is? Then we can see whether this includes policy adjustments. However, I would like to say that I am fully open to all the discussions surrounding this comparison, the results. You can ask me anything about that, and I will answer everything. I will open up when I think it can do better than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u259	But that means that we do not only get a list of tables: this country does this, that country does that and so on. Then there is a certain analysis with an explanation. Because at that point, we can only think about whether it is necessary to take action. I agree with the Secretary of State. So if there's a little more analysis on that monitor, we're one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u260	Let's just see how we can shape that. I think an analysis is part of a story, but we have to be careful not to turn it into another story until we know what's really going on. At all, many other countries have to implement this first. But I really feel like we're gonna get out of there, even without that motion. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the third block, about the greening. A number of questions have been asked. I shall begin with a question from Mr Nijboer. He asked about the burden-sharing in the greening package. He said: I would like more attention to be paid to the fair sharing of burdens between citizens and businesses. Moreover, in the case of fiscal greening, the government wants to use the polluter pays principle for everything. But the cabinet certainly pays attention to the purchasing power of the citizens and also to the impact on the competitiveness of Dutch companies. It will not benefit anyone if tariff increases result in companies moving their activities to countries where they do not pay, and then it does not reduce greenhouse gas emissions at all. So we want to have effective policies. However, the cabinet recognises the role of pricing in CO reduction, including for example in large consumers. I am also looking at Mr Van Raan at the industrial table to come up with options for a CO levy for industry, and to work it out. Because they too are part of the same problem that we are trying to solve. In the negotiations on a climate agreement, therefore, not only do the burden effects for citizens and businesses weigh, but also the scope for action. Mr Van Raan then referred to it as the 1.5°C tax plan. That was a nice way to look at a plan. I really do. That's the kind of question you have to keep asking. He actually asked if I agree with him that this is just a 1.5°C tax plan. In order to fully recognise that this is the case, I think it is far-reaching, but let me make it clear that this cabinet is taking a big step with the ambitious government agreement and also with the Tax Plan. We will continue to work with all parties under the climate agreement on our 49% reduction target for 2030. This is expected to lead not only to the measures we are now announcing, but also to many more measures. In addition, of course, the Urgenda trail also plays. Mr Van Raan knows that, too. In short, the subject is full on the agenda. But whatever we do, this tax plan of the Netherlands alone will probably not bring the number of degrees as such in the world to the level Mr Van Raan wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u261	However, you have a question from Mr Van Raan, I note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u262	Yes. How is it possible, Mr. Chairman? In this case, it is about the fact that the Secretary of State has heard something, but not the whole story. The point is, of course, that we called this tax plan the 3°C plan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u263	Oh, yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u264	... because the IPCC actually says: what we're doing so far with all of us is not enough and leads to an increase of 3°C compared to 1850. Most of the plans are still to be implemented. The Secretary of State will agree with me. They're intentions. Some of them have already been carried out, but they are largely intended. That is why this is actually a 3°C tax plan, just like all other budgets are 3°C budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u265	And your question to the Secretary of State is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u266	I think the Secretary of State acknowledges that. The next question is of course: as time passes next year we have to start with it already. It has to be a 1.5°C plan. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u267	I raced a bit through my answers, but the analysis about the 3°C and the 1.5°C explained Mr Van Raan much better than I just did. I tried to do that too fast. So he was right. At the same time, my answer was that it seemed difficult to me, despite the fact that our ambitions are really high, to present as the Netherlands a tax plan that would make a 1.5°C difference. But at least let us continue to strive massively for other countries with the same glasses to look at their tax plans, because that is what we want. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raan also asked if I agreed with him that we have also promised ourselves to use the broad concept of prosperity to take into account the costs of climate action. I agree with Mr Van Raan that environmental damage is relevant in the context of the broad concept of prosperity. We must bear in mind the negative external effects, not only now, but certainly for future generations, even when it comes to effects outside our borders. That's just a good point. I believe that policy must respond to this. That is why taxation is also an essential part of future climate policy. That is precisely why I continue to talk so full of fire about setting a flight tax and, for example, a CO2 price, through a minimum price or in another way. Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg asked how the cabinet will monitor the supply of affordable electric cars. At the beginning of this week we had a somewhat longer discussion about this. The cabinet is monitoring developments in the market for electric cars with interest and close attention. This is done by the Dutch government through the Dutch Ministry of Enterprise, which publishes monthly statistics on Electric Transport in the Netherlands. In so doing, the service keeps an accurate record of how the supply of the electric vehicle fleet develops. This figure table shows that fortunately, I am saying that more and more affordable cars with a good battery range are coming on the market. It is our firm expectation that this upward line will continue. I say to Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Lodders that I will continue to follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u268	A question on this point from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u269	Does the Secretary of State or the people who seek it look not only at what is available in the catalogues, but also at what is to be expected afterwards, for example that you don't have exorbitant delivery times? It doesn't do you much good if there is a new electric car available in your range, but you have to wait three years for it to be delivered. Are those things in the picture, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u270	Yes. It's true. Because of the tax measures currently in place, electric cars, and certainly a certain number, are currently very popular. Then you can see that with those specific models the delivery time can be longer than with a conventional car. We've got plenty of news about that. It may take several months longer. It was also said: two years. But we generally do not see that happening. So that increase is true. But, and this is important, given the increase in the number of electric cars in the Netherlands, security of supply seems to be less and less a problem in the coming period. I am not talking about individual models, but about the total of electric cars that come on the market. However, I agree to keep a close eye on developments on this point. It should not be that we say that there is an action perspective for a lot of people. "Look at what is happening in the catalogue" and that it is then as Mr Van Weyenberg says: it is nice that it is in the catalogue, but when I order it, I am busy for a very long time. That's really not the point. That's not the expectation either. Together with my colleague from IenW and the same RVO, I will continue to closely monitor the specific delivery time. If there are problems with delivery time, we will immediately contact the industry parties to identify any bottlenecks in time. The supply of electric cars is not primarily a matter for taxation alone. I will certainly ensure that my colleague from IenW is involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u271	A brief follow-up question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u272	That's clear. I asked another question. I also occasionally see figures on the share of exports of these cars, which often come out of the lease. Now, of course, the size of the fleet is increasing, so I find these absolute numbers a little difficult to judge from time to time. Is that part being kept in the picture, too? One of the concerns is that leased electric cars, which are often in a rather attractive tax regime, disappear straight across the border when they come out of the lease. That is good for the climate, by the way, but we have to ask ourselves whether it is so effective. I suppose this is part of it, too. I promise, Mr President, that this was my last specific question about that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u273	Yeah, I think so. That too has an impact on the market, so we also want to have that in mind when we decide whether we are successful in our policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u274	This reminds me of former Prime Minister Den Uyl, who, when he was alderman in the sixties, said that the common man should also be able to drive a car. I have to think about that now that I'm hearing this discussion. We all know the tax facilities for the lease boxes, the Tesla's and all that. But if we really want to improve the climate, we have to make sure that even the common man can buy an electric car on a large scale in due course. Then you're talking about an electric car of €20,000. Then every citizen will immediately say: but what benefit will I gain from it, otherwise I will not buy it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u275	Mr Van Rooijen makes an important point. Especially when it comes to electric driving, we should not seek the solution in just subsidising very expensive, beautiful cars, but we should look much more broadly at the offer. At the same time, we know that there is an underlying growth in the number of electric cars anyway, so we should not continue to stimulate again and again on the fiscal side what hopefully becomes the normal car park at some point. We have the objective that by 2030 all the cars we buy will be electric, so the tax subsidy will of course have to decrease sooner or later. Then you have to promote it in a different way. We have also talked about this before. There's also some kind of swan-stick effect. There are currently too few loading posts or specific places where you can refuel. That goes hand in hand. The moment there are more cars, it also makes sense that the poles and loading spots will be there. The other way around it becomes more attractive to drive electric as there are more charging posts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u276	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u277	Is this policy that is going to be developed, which is broader than tax, also considering what technical changes are needed in the shorter term to allow ordinary cars of €20,000 or €30,000 to drive with new techniques? That will give a huge increase in scale and then it will have an impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u278	We are very much looking for anything that has impact. I only said in my previous contribution that we should not pretend that it is only pleasant for the citizen if there is a very large tax incentive in it. It's always there in the beginning. The moment you start a new technology, you need a boost. That is what we really need to give, and that is what we are doing. In fact, some of you think that we have actually exaggerated that. But sooner or later there will of course be an end to the tax stimulus, because then, if things go well, as many cars as possible electric driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u279	But my question was whether the government, apart from taxation, in the climate agreement is trying everything around technical progress, which, of course, is not typically Dutch but must take place throughout the West, in order to speed up the technology that allows cars to drive 500 or 600 kilometres of electric power for ordinary people. 'Cause that's good enough for him. He doesn't have to drive 10,000 or 5,000 kilometers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u280	We should be a little careful assuming that we can do that as a government. Of course, we do not build electric cars ourselves. We should not be trying to prevent that either. It's really part of the climate tables, by the way. There is a great deal of talk on the mobility table about electric driving, because that is an important part of the meaningful design of climate adaptation. That must be done. They're now figuring out how to do it best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u281	Mr. Omtzigt also has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u282	Yes, I did say something about the Tesla in my speech and about the excessive lobby for the Tesla. I'm still waiting for Urgenda, Eneco and Philips to explain why they think it's reasonable that €70,000 should be subsidised, but they don't answer. The Secretary of State will answer, so I have the next question to ask him. You're gonna keep track of the new Tesla's. But the Netherlands is not only currently the third country in the world where these biggest cars are sold, not because we are so rich but because we subsidise them so well, the Netherlands also threatens to become the largest exporter of second-hand Tesla's. That's because we only give the subsidy on new cars and the lobby is crazy enough just for new cars. That means the used cars won't be available here. They go straight, hop, abroad and then we of course import dirty German diesels if we are not careful. Will the Secretary of State also keep an eye on exports and intervene in good time if all those cars disappear abroad? Maybe those cars with a minor procedure can be preserved. If we really want to promote electric driving, that would be somewhat desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u283	At the same mobility table, this issue has also been discussed quite extensively. It's not like you can only reduce emissions by buying new cars. It is also important to preserve existing cars. That's what's under consideration right now. There are a number of suggestions, but they are really still on the climate tables. If we are to be successful, we cannot help but not export all used electric cars. At the same time, it is not the easiest way to ban someone from selling their car to someone else in Europe. So you will also have to look at whether the incentives are not so that the second-hand cars disappear and remain only the new ones. But this is what I refer to the climate tables. They are really working on the whole sector to find the smartest way to keep electric cars in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u284	Here is the clamp, because at the climate table are only the people who sell new cars. I have had this discussion with this Secretary of State and for five years with his predecessor, and before that with the predecessor of his predecessor. And every time it was, no, those cars have to stay here. In all these years, I have never seen a proposal to take care of that. So what are we doing here? We bring such an expensive car here, we pay €70,000 for five years and then we export that thing, because another country gives a small subsidy on driving a second hand electric car. So these climate tables aren't gonna do this. That's exactly where the whole problem is. So you want to monitor what's happening? If you notice that these cars are exported and are not available to ordinary people, will you come up with a plan yourself and not leave it at the climate table? Because the common man can't buy a new car at all and certainly not at that level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u285	Mr Omtzigt clearly has less confidence in the climate tables than I do. I get to watch what happens every once in a while. There is a serious exchange of views on this subject. The idea that these tables only represent the interests of parties selling new cars is really wrong. There are a lot of parties there, like Greenpeace and others, who are seriously trying to see how we can do that. That's a suggestion I'd like to put aside a little bit. However, Mr Omtzigt may have a different view of the success of these tables than I do. I still assume that they are going to propose good measures, including in this area. At the same time, I would like to say to Mr Omtzigt once again that we must be careful that the suggestion is being made here as if it were easy. I do not know Mr Omtzig's discussion with my predecessors. Perhaps that is better in some areas too. But it is nice to have somewhere in mind that banning the sale of your car to a bidder in another country where there is a high subsidy at the time is incredibly difficult. That's hard to counter, because we can't put signs on the border. We really must stand for the free movement of capital and of goods, in this case. So that's not easy. At the same time, Mr Omtzigt and I think I want the same thing. I say once again that our climate policy can only be successful when not all these cars cross the border, because then we just won't make it. We need them. We cannot meet this objective simply by purchasing new cars. So we're really seeing that differently. When I ask if I'm going to monitor this, I say yes, because this fits in. When we start counting how many electric cars we have, we're going to do it in target form. Then we need used cars as much as new cars. In short, yes, I'm going to monitor, but I also have to give a small warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u286	Very briefly. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u287	It is very nice that we will probably hear at least once a year whether a car is occasionally exported, which is no problem at all, because of course you can sell a car to someone from another country at the border or that those cars are exported massively. Then there's a problem. That's exactly what happened to the Mitsubishi Outlander. The way it looks now, it's going to happen with the Tesla Model S. So I'll wait for those reports for the next two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u288	I share Mr Omtzigt's analysis of these two models. Sometimes you can get into the tax stimulus, especially if you do it one by one in all countries in Europe. Then you're not improving anything in terms of environmental policy, but you're wasting a lot of taxpayers' money. So, again, I think we're mostly just thinking along the same line here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u289	Mrs Lodders also wants to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u290	Certainly, Mr President, also on this point. I also addressed this point yesterday in my first term. I have expressed my concern about the second-hand electric cars that come on the market from the lease. Mr Omtzigt's concern, and that is also my concern, is about the fiscal attractiveness of such a second-hand car, which will be more expensive than a new car. That's the concern. I really want that addressed. I had announced that we would return to this point in the written consultation we are currently conducting in the evaluation of the Car Letter. But if the Secretary of State now indicates that he is already reporting to us before the summer, so that we can see the progress of next year, then I do not have to submit the motion following the written consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u291	I'll give you my word when we get that information. Once again, the RVO keeps track of this for us and my colleague will also be working on it. Although you might sometimes think the opposite, it is not true that only cars are bought because of tax regulations. People also have other interests in buying a car. I'm saying this a little jesting, but I can see Mrs Lodder's running forward now. The point she and Mr Omtzigt want to make is clear to me. We will continue to monitor this, because we share the objective with all of us. Mrs Lodders referred to the specific aspect of the addition. It is not the case that a second-hand car becomes more expensive. There are people who say that, but that seems rather strong to us all. Only the tax addition used for cars from before or after a given year becomes different. But if someone sold me the same used car more expensive, we'd be in the same system as we used to be in East Germany. Let's hope we don't get that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u292	I'm just talking about the tax add-up. Then we'll see that those charges are higher when you have a used car. We have to watch out for this, and we share that with each other, that these cars are being subsidised to disappear across the border. So that signal's clear, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u293	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u294	Mr Mulder has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u295	The Secretary of State just said that tax benefits shouldn't go through. Well, the previous fiscal benefits have gone 6 billion euros: 6 billion euros gone and zero results! So we just gave away EUR 6 billion with zero result. Now we're doing the same thing again, only now they're all electric cars. It has already been noted that large sums of money are disappearing again. Yeah, I actually think it's too ridiculous for words that you still have to discuss it. Anyway, climate tables! Very important, intelligent, great smart, good people, who are going to throw away a lot of money from ordinary taxpayers. And now there is another discriminatory measure and we see that the elite are going to drive around in very cheap cars. The common Dutchman can pay for that. And then the question, the short question that you really wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u296	Exactly, because that's where you came in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u297	Let's say you can do it all; let's say you manage to discriminate further against the common Dutchman and let all those crazies drive our money with those electric cars. What does that mean in 2040 or 2050? How much money do you have in the budget, in excise duties, in motor vehicle taxes? Is that 8 billion, is that 10 billion? Is it then the case that the same Dutchman, who is now discriminated against, has to bleed for it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u298	It seems to be almost a per-second pointer question. Did I have an option or something in between? No, it doesn't look like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u299	I had to keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u300	So Mr Mulder's question is what happens if we continue to go blindly ahead and do not respond to anything, but do want to achieve our objectives. That's what he actually says. The goal is that every Dutchman, rich or poor, young or old, who decides to buy a car in 2030, will buy an electric car. That is the objective. And then Mr. Mulder asks where the income comes from which we are now getting from the excise duty on petrol. Where are they? Well, if we don't do something, it's at the expense of the treasury, but that's obviously exactly why we have to do something. And that is exactly one of the tasks that we have placed at the climate tables you love so much. Do not forget that if we continue to stimulate electric cars, and we would like to do so, that is our policy objective, which has an impact on the state budget through revenue. We also ask the tables to find suitable solutions for this. Knowing Mr Mulder a little, the following remark will be made: then you will see that this is only paid by the common man and not by others. Well, that's explicitly not the intention. We have also said that we want support for these measures. Perhaps that is precisely why we are proposing a subsidy above a certain amount. Today this is also called the Tesla cap, but it does not only apply to Tesla's; it applies to all cars. You shouldn't think Tesla is the biggest example. Of course it is also important to drive electric in that market, but we also want to make that money available to other segments in the car market. And that's also for someone with a small wallet who wants to drive an Opel Ampera or something. We really want to make that possible for everyone. So this also applies: to divide fairly between everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u301	Finalizing, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u302	In the context of fair distribution, therefore, I hear a commitment here that people up to, say, two or three times will not have to pay anything extra if everyone is driving an electric car. I think that, if I have heard correctly, is a very pleasant undertaking. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u303	I have not heard this commitment. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on. With Mr Omtzigt, Mr Lodders and Mr Leijten there was a longer discussion, even in the previous days, about the bpm refund scheme. It's good to think about that. In particular, the monitoring of the impact of the abolition of this BPM refund scheme was requested. The question was also whether sufficient energy-efficient alternatives would be available. It was said that we are suggesting that this is the case and that there is scope for action. Again, Mrs Leijten also had some questions about this. This item has rightly been placed on the agenda several times. It concerns the bpm refund scheme for taxis, but also for public transport, such as health care. I really believe that the people who use target transport should not suffer from this measure, which is positive, greening. But I really don't think this is gonna happen. I tried to explain that during the legislative consultation. Indeed, taxi and public transport operators are expected to opt for a greener alternative when purchasing a new vehicle after 1 January 2020. As promised here during the legislative consultation, I will continue to monitor the offer of these environmentally friendly alternatives. Only then will we know if there is an action perspective. I will explore whether I can join in monitoring, for example, the recently concluded governance agreement, whereby the sector agreed to move towards zero-emission groups by 2025. Monitoring is an important part of the Action Plan in the governance agreement. This concerns the fact that municipalities ask carriers to submit tenders for tenders with each vehicle there will actually be driven. I say again in plenary that we will be aware of the potential consequences. They're not supposed to, so we're gonna monitor them closely. There were also questions about the waste tax. Mr Omtzigt pointed out that transitional rights could be needed for stocks of waste that are only processed in 2019, but are already stored outside the final treatment facility. That's another nice tax word. This could be covered by higher revenue from waste taxes. In his opinion, more Dutch waste will be incinerated and less foreign waste, thus exempt. That leads to a plus on balance. I do not entirely agree with Mr Omtzigt. The government agreement has already indicated that the waste tax will increase by 2019. Waste processors have since had the opportunity to organise their operations in this area. The transitional arrangements will ensure a budgetary loss that will have to be covered. Moreover, the estimate of the revenue from the waste tax is based on projections by Rijkswaterstaat on the waste flows, including this import adjustment. Behavioural effects resulting from this increase have already been taken into account. A higher yield than expected cannot be used to cover this measure, which is an endogenous development. That is why I do not think there are any stocks that people do not know about. So there is also scope for action here. Another question in the context of the waste tax was about the exemption from asbestos. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg asked to respond in advance to the announced amendment of the SGP on an exemption from the waste tax on asbestos. Mr Omtzigt asked me more specifically than Mr Van Weyenberg how to prevent abuse. Someone who sees a waste bin somewhere can throw a sheet of asbestos into it to turn it into a container contaminated with asbestos, so that they do not have to pay waste taxes. An exemption from asbestos can therefore encourage all kinds of abuse. Mr Van Weyenberg specifically asked whether, in the light of a circular economy, something could be done such as granting an exemption. In my second term, I said that I would give a more precise appreciation of all the amendments tabled. Mr Stoffer's amendment is also being discussed in detail at that time. Such an exemption should certainly not apply to asbestos waste mixed with other waste, because that would provoke mixing, whereas that is exactly what you want to avoid. At the same time, we believe that there are conditions that can prevent this. That makes it possible to be a little more positive in terms of feasibility. I'll tell you more about it later. The increase in the waste tax in itself plays a relatively small role in the whole. For example, I mentioned a percentage for the removal of asbestos roofs in the written consultation. The levy then amounts to between 1.5% and 3% of the cost. There are examples that lead to a much smaller percentage, but well, these are also costs. Something can be devised for the conversion of asbestos waste. I will go into more detail if the amendment is still ready. Mr Van Weyenberg's question as to whether I could do something for the conversion of asbestos waste and other substances that could be reused. I would prefer to refer him to the Secretary of State of IenW, because she also deals with the circular economy. She has a great deal of knowledge of this and is also engaged in many actions. I think I should refer to her, but in itself I look forward to all the circular developments and also to how taxation could contribute to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u304	I see that Mr Van Weyenberg still has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u305	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Chamber, I believe, has said quite unanimously: we need to move towards more circular; asbestos must be broken down into other raw materials. My question was whether the Secretary of State could, for example, deal with the amendments later on whether Mr Stoffer's amendment is not a risk to that desire to move to circular. That was the background. A broad reflection on how to do so should be done in another place. But also in order to know how I intend to vote on that amendment, it is important for me that this amendment does not adversely affect the reuse of asbestos and its return to the underlying raw materials. I hope not, and I might not expect it, but I still want to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u306	I'm doing it a little out of my mind right now, but in itself isolating a certain toxic material, asbestos, will make it easier to "circulate." That's often the case. If you have a raw material that you specifically want to do something with, often the better it is separated, the better it can be done. If we think of an exemption for this waste tax, it does not prevent such developments. On the contrary, it is my first feeling that this could help. But I'm really getting into the field of the expertise of my colleague from IenW. In any case, it is not the intention, and I would like to continue to look into this in order to ensure that it does not get in the way of each other. Mr Stoffer had another question about this waste tax. He said: is it true that when transferring waste abroad, sometimes for several years no waste tax is paid? The answer is he's right about that. That is indeed possible. The following is the case: the levying of waste tax on landfill and incineration outside the Netherlands. This is part of the European waste-transfer licensing system, which covers a given tonnage and generally has a duration of exactly one year. But a limited proportion of these permits are issued for a maximum of three years. For shipments of waste with current permits, the law provides for the possibility of transitional arrangements. The aim of this is not to rob exporters with ongoing licences with the obligation under the waste tax. In fact, that is also an answer to Mr Omtzigt. For example, the exporter must agree with the foreign recipient of the waste on the provision of information on the treatment of the waste, because this is important. In addition, a transitional arrangement is therefore desirable because it also makes it more difficult to include current licences in the levy and because it makes implementation more difficult. In order to avoid anticipation behavior, letter of amendment provides for the possibility of a transitional regime and restricts the acceptance of authorisations issued before 25 October 2018, i.e. the existing authorisations. So yes, if you had at that very moment a permit that lasted longer than a year, we do know cases of three-year licences, then Mr Stoffer has a good point. At least he has a point because that's true. That brings me to the end of the block about greening and I could almost pass over to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u307	...the last block. Perhaps this is possible after Mr Stoffer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u308	...the potpourri.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u309	I'm very glad the Secretary of State says I have a good point. Does that mean that that point will remain or is there anything to be done about it? Of course, you'll get an uneven playing field in the next three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u310	No, I don't think so. These are therefore contracts already entered into and concluded before 25 October. That was the moment we published it. In order to make it possible precisely in the implementation to check this, we must honour existing contracts. That is the familiar problem of transition. Moreover, it only applies to a limited part, because in general it is increasingly regulated that all these contracts last exactly one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u311	Mrs Leijten has one final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u312	The duty-free rate for the energy bill is reduced. Everyone gets a higher energy bill. That's $400 million. We have proposed that this should not be reported on all households, but that it should be recorded in the fourth disc in that system. I would like to have an opinion from the Secretary of State, because we think it is fairer to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u313	That's an amendment, I believe, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u314	Sure. It had been said in advance that he would do the amendments during the current discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u315	But in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u316	In second term? Then I'd like to know the verdict...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u317	It's customary, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u318	I don't think that's so common at all, because in second term you can't argue that much at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u319	But the Secretary of State deals with all the questions that have been asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u320	This question is very important. I've certainly asked for the energy bill to be distributed more fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u321	Absolutely. I do not want to say that we are not inviting the Secretary of State to reply to this question at this stage, but he is dealing with the amendments in the second term, as are any motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u322	Yes, Mr President, I thought that was how we decided at the beginning of the debate. So I've kept to that. But do I understand that I'm supposed to say something about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u323	I get the impression that Mrs Leijten... If you're capable of doing that, it might be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u324	Okay, then I misunderstood. However, my question, which is about fiscal measures, remains. The question is whether you are greening when you raise the energy bill for all households. I do not see that reasoning. We say, "Don't grab the households, but put that increase on the polluting companies that will say, "We are going to innovate and really do something about emissions." So don't put the bill on people who can't escape the consequences, but on the companies that we need to encourage to become cleaner. I'd still like to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u325	I think Mrs Leijten is quite right in the field of technology. If you reduce the pressure at the bottom and put it at the top, for example in large consumers, it has positive effects on the environment. That's absolutely true. But then you do make some kind of policy choice. If, specifically, we are talking about the energy tax reduction measure, which was also mentioned when the Millions note was discussed in August. The cabinet then looked at a measure at the bottom. One of the reasons why it was finally chosen not to take this measure was that it was very unfocused. For example, people with very high incomes can also benefit from the same reduction in payments. Because in the coalition and beyond there was a desire to apply part of those effects precisely to the bottom of the wage building, we decided to do so through the general tax rebate, because the effects are so more effective at the bottom of the building. That was really a conscious, targeted purchasing power measure. That's a choice you can be against or for. As a general notion: you can in itself lower rates at the bottom and at the top. That could be a policy choice. I understand that Mrs Leijten thinks that is a good choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u326	Apart from the fact that the increase in the energy bill is, of course, a very crazy purchasing power measure, I can very well follow the Secretary of State's reasoning. Yeah, that discount gets every household, maybe even the people who need that discount a little less, people who can isolate their homes and thereby bring down their energy bill. But what is happening is that the people who cannot take measures to bring down the energy bill, because they do not have the resources or because they live with a corporation that does not want to do anything about it, get that reduction and are not compensated for it. The general tax rebate has already been used six times to compensate for everything. But in the end, you can see that with this, the lowest incomes get a tax increase again. That's why we've been thinking: what should you do if you want to green? That's what I see. Where do you have to put the 400 million down, even to keep the budget running? I understand the Secretary of State's interest. Then you have to lay the burden on the big companies that pollute a lot. We know that they have a more innovative force to reduce these emissions. Then you hit two birds with one stone: you don't saddle the low incomes and the households who can't avoid it, and you have less emissions. Why isn't that a choice? Is that simply policy-making, or is this about certain revenues of 400 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u327	It was really meant to compensate for that very bottom. When looking for measures that are most suitable for this purpose, we opted for the most targeted income support. So there are actually two parts of the discussion. It would be a little faint to think that we have also wanted to pursue income policies on one hand. On the contrary, we have really done so as specifically as possible. But it is really another point when Mrs Leijten asks whether, within this energy tax, for good reasons, we also want to make large-scale consumption pay more rather than people who may not be able to avoid it. Those people are here. They live in a rental house and can't do it themselves, so we have to do something through the landlord's tax. But I understand she'd like that to be a little more. Moreover, this is exactly one of the issues that we have raised at the industrial table, the climate table that talks about industry. The cabinet has said that it would very much like the industrial table to examine how to do it best. Because we want the industry to continue to pay for the further sustainability of the Netherlands. So, in fact, I do not think that we think otherwise and that it can be a positive measure. But that choice hasn't been made yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u328	Finally. If you say 'wait for the climate tables, which are going to give advice', I find it strange that we are already discussing a tax plan in which you see that the energy bill for households is being increased anyway. I do not think that this is climate justice; I believe that this is the miscalculation of the account. This way you get no support for climate action but rather irritation. I don't think that's smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u329	That's a conclusion. But I think that everyone who is now presenting that we need to make it more sustainable in the Netherlands, but that only companies or people with high incomes have to pay for it, also wrongly. That is a suggestion that was also raised earlier, in an intervention by Mr Snels, on which I reacted a little sharply. I think everyone should finally realise that the use of energy involves external costs and that you have to pay for them, whether you have a high or a low income. Next, I fully agree that you should not lay that down precisely or to a large extent with people who do not have an action perspective. Because you're doing it wrong. At that point, I am in full agreement with what Mrs Leijten is saying. That's exactly the job at those tables. Then you could say that you can go through that already with the Tax Plan. But we have just said that it is important that we do this not only from the ivory tower of the legislator, but that we give a say to all the parties involved in the sector. Let them come to the best of proposals. Again, I really think we are playing in the same direction here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u330	Thank you. Then we go to the only last question in the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u331	Yes. But there are always more than you might hope, Mr President. But let me just start with good and fresh courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u332	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u333	It's just getting more and more fun. Although, we're now going to talk about the Law adjusting gambling tax for sports betting. A number of questions have been asked about this. Mrs Lodders indicated that she was not yet fully reassured about the proposed measure on gambling tax. She asked if I would be prepared to contact the various marketing authorisation holders and to inform the Chamber before 1 April of the results of those talks. Mr Omtzigt asked me to make sure that there was good consultation. Mr Van Rooijen asked if there was ever any consultation with the NNO and NOC*NSF and the eighteen charities. Can I actually give certainty about the survival of the toto? Mr Van Weyenberg paid particular attention to and questions about trotting and racing. Let me start at the front. The concerns of the members about the land-based toto and the bets on trotting and racing I heard right. We've really spent a lot of time trying to understand it. I am therefore happy to announce that I will inform your Chamber before 1 April 2019 about the state of play regarding the conversations with the Dutch Lottery and the provider of the trotting and racing games. Some of the e-mails and messages that Mrs Lodder refers to will mainly relate to the contribution to charity and sport. Those people have said: beware that this measure does not exactly touch those you do not want to touch, namely the charities and the people who are pleasantly engaged in their sport. Of course, I totally agree with that. As with the sports exemption, that is certainly not what we are trying to achieve. But if I look at the past few years, the contribution is to make just that sum of the land-based toto only a very small part of the total contribution of the Dutch lotteries to the State. I happen to be responsible for that now as Secretary of State and I have seen those figures. The same applies to the payments associated with charities and sports. This is a few million dollars a year. In my opinion, the 3.2 million which is now available is a very generous compensation for these goals. The majority of what is suffered by the land-based toto is that we, as a shareholder, are actually taking into account the profits for our hood, and that is only a few million going to charity and sport. And so the 3.2 million we have now made available, I say again, is a generous compensation for charity and sport. In this context, it is also important that the Ministries of Finance and VWS are in consultation with the parties concerned to see whether and how a workable solution can be found for all good causes and sport. In fact, I am replying to Mr Van Rooijen's question on several occasions. For the first time with the Dutch Lottery in July 2017 and more recently with the Foundation Gaming Interests NOC*NSF/ALN. But, I say it again, this consultation with charities and sport will also continue in the coming period. We're not done yet. In my letter last Monday I also discussed the consequences of the measures for the Dutch Lottery, which is now the provider of toto sport. I can tell Mr Van Rooijen, as I mentioned in the legislative consultation, that I think it is important that the land-based toto be exercised, given the role it plays in the government's gaming policy. I also pointed out to the board that it has a responsibility in that regard. The impact on the land-based toto will be further analysed over the coming period. It will also consider how these effects can be met; how best to do so. The Dutch Lottery has told me to get to work on this. My view is that the company will do everything in its power to achieve the most healthy business model possible for the land-based toto. And that's what we want. Moreover, it is now up to the board of the Dutch Lottery to consider what measures are needed to continue the land-based toto after the COA has entered into force. But I have every confidence that the board will do it right. Members Lodders and Van Weyenberg also had concerns about the impact of the bill on trotting and racing. But I see two people standing there. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u334	Yes, I would very much like you to conclude this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u335	I had a feeling there was some unrest. So they had concerns about the consequences for trotting and racing. Sportech is, as has been said, a marketing authorisation holder for betting on trotting and racing. During the past year several conversations have taken place with Sportech and with the Dutch Draf- en Rensport. The other ministries were also involved. We are and we will continue to talk to both Sportech and the NDR in the coming period to see what is best possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u336	Last week, but also last night, I did indeed express my concerns about both the toto and the trotting and racing. The Secretary of State has previously indicated that the toto must not disappear. I got that right. As far as I am concerned, the same applies to trotting and racing. I hear the Secretary of State say that he is talking to these organisations, or in fact with all those involved, and wants to inform the Chamber before 1 May. I think that is possible, but I really want to get that confirmation again, because the decision will only take effect after royal decision on 1 July 2020, according to the legislative proposal. But I say honestly that these concerns have not been removed by the answer, because we have been approached a lot in the past 24 hours, both from the Dutch Loterij, the toto provider, but also from the Dutch Draf and Rensport. So I really appeal to the Secretary of State to have that conversation seriously and to inform us, so that we still have time to go through with it, if the conversations do not provide a satisfactory outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u337	Absolutely. In fact, I think Mrs. Lodder's failing herself. I had already promised to do that before April 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u338	Well, look at this! Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u339	With the exception of whether or not consultations have taken place, I believe, without a doubt, the Secretary of State, but the letter of 30 October, which we received, states that there has been no prior consultation. But aside from that... My concern is that the mail exchange, even this Monday evening, has shown with us that the compensation scheme as structural funding is found to be an untrustworthy source and that it does not want to go through compensation. Then it goes through the budget. There are all kinds of possible changes in the future in et cetera. It would take too long to go into that technique. Is it not at least possible to withdraw this bill now to ensure that there is still a broad discussion about it? There is another year due to the COA, with which the new scheme will only be effective on 1 July 2020. If the proposal is submitted in next year's Tax Plan, then today's pressure can also be removed from that consultation. That seems to me to be a good way forward. They don't feel like compensation. If the business model can be different in one way or another, also given this proposal, then I think that is the best solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u340	I don't think so. I have just said to Mrs Lodder that we have indicated in the legislative consultation that this only applies by royal decree. That must then be beaten at the moment when the COA enters as well. That is indeed not in the short term. I really think it would be wrong to postpone the bill and do so in the Tax Plan. We have a KB. That will not be struck until the COA has been approved. We need a level playing field between country-based and non-country-based. That is actually the reason for the whole debate on equalising the percentage of taxes. The Commission is asking us again here that we do not, for example, have a preference for land-based relations with non-country countries. We have to, and we want to. I think the Chamber agrees with that. Your room's care is in what that means for the potential payment. I have tried to point out that the level of payments for the land-based toto is only a very small part. That very small part is largely taken up by the shareholders in a way. But for that part that goes to the athletes, a few million, we give a generous compensation to make sure that no one gets worse on the VWS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u341	Yes, you indicated that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u342	But Mr Van Rooijen says that these people prefer it differently. Anyway, even if we postpone a year, that's no different. Once again, I think what I have proposed is sensible. I'm gonna go talk to them about how best to do this. I'll report to your office on that before April 1st. So that's a lot of room before the KB gets hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u343	Do I understand from the Secretary of State that it is not possible to include it in the Tax Plan next year? This change in gambling tax will only take place on 1 July 2020, isn't it? Surely you will meet the requirements of Brussels, even if you do not do it until next year? The scheme can only enter into force in 2020. That's gotta be possible, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u344	Anything can be done, apart from all the potential execution tests that go with it and that could just hinder it. But we already know what we want. I believe that the proposal has gone through the Chamber before and we have said that this is what we want. Now we are talking about the consequences for trotting and racing and for the toto. In all honesty, I don't think it's fair to re-create the bill in the Tax Plan while we have it now, because that might suggest more than there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u345	The essence of the story is, of course, that, due to a tax increase of 5% to 29%, I feel that we are not sure whether the business model of the toto can continue to exist. There has to be that certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u346	The toto may and will not disappear. It is far too important for us to have the toto, because it has an important role in the channeling policy of the Dutch gaming policy. I've reported that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u347	So you're making that commitment here, at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u348	I'm saying exactly what I said. The toto must not disappear, and I think that is extremely important. I don't expect it either. The management of the toto providers will now consider how best to do so in the future. Then I come to Mr Omtzigt's questions. We are talking about the bill OFM, other fiscal measures. He asked if there was no way to ensure that people who drive around here with a foreign license plate can be photographed, just like we do for the mrb, can be registered and just pay their car tax. I think it is good to explain in my answer what we are doing and why we are doing what we are doing. He's actually asking if the cameras we're using for the mrb aren't also helpful in maintaining the mrb obligation for the foreign license plates. There is no record of foreign registration vehicles for which no vehicle tax is paid. And it cannot actually be drawn up simply because camera data cannot be used to determine who is the taxable person for the tax on motor vehicles and whether there is a tax obligation in relation to the tax on motor vehicles. The Dutch registration and tax obligation are always mentioned in one breath while these are two legal obligations, namely the compulsory registration of registration on the basis of the Road Traffic Act and the Dutch tax obligation. It is therefore good to realise that the Tax Administration is dependent on this compulsory registration for its supervision of the MRB. Failure to comply with registration has been punishable by the Road Traffic Act, with a penalty of two months in custody or a large fine. However, if someone stays in the Netherlands for a period of, for example, six months, he is obliged to register in the BRP. Registration means that that car is also registered in the Netherlands and from that moment in the Netherlands must also be paid mrb and bpm, an insurance is taken out and, for example, the apk obligation applies. The accuracy of registration is therefore extremely important in the determination of taxes. Finally, I would like to say that the Tax Administration continues to inform and enforce foreign registration numbers, which was also advised by the General Court of Auditors and in the report on the enforcement of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u349	Those are very long answers, but how many fines have been passed on to people who were driving around with a foreign license plate and didn't comply with registration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u350	I don't have that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u351	Those have been on the fingers of two hands for years, and that is exactly the problem. The answer was extensive. It was between two different execution services, because somewhere there's registration, somewhere we don't know who's behind the wheel and somewhere it might be that that car was sold in the meantime. So there's never a fine, even though people drive around here for months and sometimes for years with a foreign car. So my question isn't what can't be done. My question is whether you can think of something that works in enforcement. Look, we're putting in a system with cameras over the road right now. If you, as a Dutchman, are accidentally flashed for one day when you are not registered, you will get a mega-boon on the mat, while you just turn out to be able to drive around with a foreign license plate. What do we do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u352	In the tax administration's supervisory policy, you can sometimes exercise preventive supervision and sometimes repressive supervision. The Tax Administration is best placed to determine when supervision is successful. It is actually impossible to physically check all foreign registration numbers, and so a policy has been launched that calls in particular for a preventive approach. You have to make sure that when you drive around you are eventually registered as well. Since the start of the project we are working on, there has been an increase in the number of vehicles registered by migrants registered in the BRP and the number of vehicles registered on a Dutch registration number. So we see an increase in that. This increases further as migrants live longer in the Netherlands. So that policy seems to be quite successful. The Tax Administration notes that the preventive approach works well and with relatively little commitment from the service a good result is achieved here in the longer term. This supports the approach, the preventive functioning of the policy. It is also part of the ongoing process within the service. The repressive route which is referred to has many limitations, is extremely labour-intensive, is not cost-effective and poses a lot of problems. The repressive process is still the most efficient in cooperation with other public services and will therefore continue as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u353	Rounding off, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u354	That's a lot of words, and I'm gonna try to sum them up. The answers showed that even after a number of years of registration, the percentage of people who have a car as a migrant is very low here. And we're talking about migrant workers. So we are not talking about asylum seekers who cannot afford it. Yet they all drive around in cars. Now the Secretary of State says: we write nice letters. And indeed, on those nice letters a number of people respond. The second time, they're a little less friendly. And then the Secretary of State says, if they don't respond, we don't check. Well, if you don't check, nothing will happen. So either use those cameras or use those local parking permits. If someone is applying for a parking permit for a car with a foreign license plate, I'd stop by and see what that's for. So can we get a plan and a report on the number of fines being handed out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u355	We share the same frustration that a lot of people using their cars use the road network without paying for it. By my answer I merely meant to say that we must be careful to think that only one thing helps, namely repressive policy. We know from experience that it does more if we ensure that they are registered. Why is that? Apart from those photos; we can talk about that too. Suppose someone says: I'm over for a weekend today and the last time you photographed me, my sister was over; I'm not even late, by the way. Then you'll end up with nothing to catch him. If we can prove that someone has been here for a long time but he has not registered his car, then the most effective policy is to ensure that that happens. That's not just a very friendly letter. That's really the point. You should always have your enforcement policy followed by checks. That is also the case here. Only, you can put the emphasis on doing nothing preventative and only try to catch afterwards, which is incredibly difficult, or do both. Then you put something preventively to indicate that this is the most successful policy, but at the end of the day Mr Omtzigt is right in saying that if there is never any control, you must of course have some kind of butter with the fish, but that is not the case. I just want to say that we must be careful not to be entirely repressive. Precisely the explaining policy works. Then maybe something about those pictures; we talked about that earlier. I get that you're saying those things are there; couldn't those pictures be used to force these people into something? The point is that even if you keep those photos for a long time, which is not allowed within privacy protection, you still don't have the means to say that these people are in violation. Once again, I agree with Mr Omtzig that we should look at what we can all come up with. I was just trying to point out that the way he had devised is not considered most effective by the department and the inspectors. But I certainly accept his challenge to think further together about how we can do this right. There was also a question from Mr Omtzigt about the study allowance. He asked me if I could work out on the website of the Tax Administration what opportunities there are for employers to pay a study grant to children of their employees. For this there is the Handbook on Wage Taxes, which is on the website of the Tax Administration. It describes and explains the legal rules on wage charges. The same applies to benefits paid by employers to the children of workers. That manual has the legal force of a policy decision for these employers. The manual is updated twice a year and is also available in PDF format. However, I would like to make a specific undertaking to Mr Omtzig that I will ask the authors of this handbook to clarify this information further, so that the possibilities are clear not only to the inspector but also to the employer. Then Mr Omtzigt asked when the Court could expect a proposal for the compulsory publication of the financing of public utility institutions from non-free countries. It is true that, in June, he and Mrs Lodders took a look, but I do not see her asking in a motion for a resolution after consulting the charity sector to draw up and introduce a kind of model publication. This could include minimum requirements, such as financial transparency, including insight into donations and donations from non-EU States, and in gifts that would come directly or indirectly from non-free countries. I've been consulting with the sector ever since. I have promised your Chamber that I will discuss this in detail in what the winter letter is called. I am making this commitment once again to Mr Omtzigt. Then Mr Omtzigt asked if I wanted to have an investigation into extending the exclusion of the return scheme to routes that had been revealed by the Panama Papers. He also asked whether I could improve the legal certainty of taxpayers who are in good faith without any penalties. I see the chairman looking interested. He thinks, "That's what I want to know." Well, the answer is: it is understandable that there is social resistance to the possibility of repentance by taxpayers who served themselves of constructions as described in the Panama Papers. That is why I would also like to see an investigation into the possibility of excluding the return scheme for more situations than is currently the case. At the same time, I understand that the taxpayers who are in good faith also want to be sure that they can make an improvement without fear, because that was an earlier discussion we had without being fined immediately. It is really important to indicate in a general sense, because I cannot go into individual cases, which are allowed to make a mistake. That can just happen and is not a problem at all. A taxable person may return his declaration without fear of a fine. It is in the public interest that I should like to stress that once again, here again, everyone is making a proper report. Mistakes are not desirable, but they are not immediately fined. That is why I will see how I can further clarify how taxpayers who are in good faith can correct a mistake without fear of a fine. I think that is what Mr Omtzig is asking for. Mr Van Raan had a very interesting question about the protein transition. I am glad that sometimes in taxation there are words that we do not always come across when we talk about normal legislation. Mr Van Raan considers the protein transition to be very important. He is actually asking if I would like to raise the issue of tax incentives for plant protein production at local level in the EU and then have it investigated. Mr Van Raan's question is, of course, part of a much broader discussion, which may be somewhat separate from the measures we were analysing and discussing today in the Tax Plan. On the basis of this first problem analysis by Mr Van Raan, I do not know whether public intervention is immediately obvious. Assuming that there is a reason for intervention, it is also a bit of a question of whether financial control through taxation is the first thing to be said very carefully, Mr President-in-Office. Nevertheless, I am pleased that Mr Van Raan is calling for attention to this point. You know my policy agenda. I absolutely want to look into whether our system can be helpful in important transitions. My commitment is also to simplify the system. At the moment and in that perspective, I do not see any reason to have the issue of protein transition and the tax treatment already examined in the EU. I hope he can live with that. There were also a number of questions from Mr Azarkan about the digitals. That's kind of the same thing. We have discussed this extensively in the last two or three Ecofin AOs. If you don't mind, I would like to refer him back to the answer I gave there, where the attitude of the Netherlands according to the agreed sheets is: constructively critical, I believe were the words that have fallen. Above all, we want a lot of clarity about the technique. I don't see any real consensus there yet. By the way, I see a Dutch allegiances that I have also said before, not as per se obvious. Mrs Leijten has asked if I am prepared to identify by 1 April or 1 May 2019 the number of people that could be eligible for compensation for injury. How many are there and what would it cost to release everyone for this compensation in box 3? Let me start by saying that I very much appreciate Mrs Leijten being so persistent on the subject, because then we can often have this discussion. I understand very well where this question comes from, let us put it first. At the same time, I know that I have to disappoint her a little time and time again. I don't like that, but I'm afraid this is going to happen a little bit this time too. I have already mentioned several times in written answers that there is not enough specific data available on injury compensation. If I do not have it, then it is extremely difficult to make a cost estimate, which Mrs Leijten is asking for. I would like to stress once again to her that the cabinet considers the exception it advocates to be politically undesirable. The introduction of an exception would be at the expense of the starting point that box 3 - that is an important starting point in taxation - the capital belonging to a property on a special reference date, regardless of its origin, which is an important element, is a return basis. If you want to make another exception to this, where exactly does the money you have in your box 3 come from? This would complicate the system enormously, but also its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u356	I understand they're in the Tax Department working on very handsome and self-thinking systems. I see that harm insurers, as well as injury attorneys, are calling the alarm for this injustice. Then I'm thinking to myself, isn't that something to investigate? Maybe not on specifically 18 people or 23 people, but it should be possible to give an estimate of the size of the group. For example, a large group has already been excluded from not getting care and rent payments due to particular assets. At least we know the size of that, I think. We know that the VWS ministry says: we separate these people from the power test for their own contribution. That's where the data comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u357	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u358	So my question is as follows. I understand that it's complicated and I understand that it has to be approximate, but is there any way to make an effort? I want to think for myself and if time is short, I want to move in, but I am purely concerned that it has been said for years: this is not a power but a compensation for damage. Can we find a solution to that? I know that the Secretary of State is busy and I know that the Tax Office is overflowing, but that should not prevent Members of Parliament from proposing an initiative that is also feasible and feasible? I'm looking for that, and without your help, I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u359	I get that. Again, this answer has nothing to do with not giving you the knowledge. But we don't have that knowledge ourselves. We can do a very rough job of trying to do it, but if power hasn't been notified, you're also saying that it's special power, it's not that easy to figure out how much it is. What is at issue is the question of whether it is desirable to do so, perhaps the most important point of the discussion we have had before. Many of these fees, including those paid by insurers, aim to contribute net. They therefore take account of the fact that tax is paid on this. If that were not the case and you could exempt it, then our firm expectation, as well as that of the insurers, is that the net contribution would be different. Unfortunately, that does not change anything for those people and leads to very complicated assumptions. For example: you have a bank account with €100 and I might even hope a little more. Can you tell me exactly where each euro came from? You should be able to look that up, and you don't know that. That's like when you get into debt and you have a lot of reasons why you're in debt. What exactly was the reason you ended up in debt relief? I would like nothing more than for us to be able to establish that, but it is not that easy. Box 3 really assumes that, unless you have examples of that particular power, basically everything that comes in there is also meant to be tested with a power test that you also have in the surcharges. Why don't you take a closer look at that? You could do that, and I would be happy to help you, but in the end I think that my policy weighting is not going to be any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u360	That policy weighting is now a reason to reject an investigation. I'm kind of sorry about that. At the same time, I also see a trend in the government, in the same tax administration, but also in the same government, but then in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in order to rule out injury. There are really a lot of forms of compensation and injury damages that are covered by that particular ability. But if you've been hit by a drunk, you can never work again and you get eight tons, you can't be excluded, but you're facing higher taxes. Not everyone's opinion has been taken into account. That's exactly what the insurance companies themselves say. They are written together with the injury attorneys who are opposite each other in the courtroom, the emergency clock. Then you want to do something and then you want to examine it. Now the Minister of VWS excludes people with injury from their own contribution to the Wmo and the Wlz. Which system does he use? Look at that. It's possible! If you say in advance that an investigation cannot be carried out and, moreover, you do not agree with it in policy terms, then I get the impression that you do not want to give any information at all or to make an attempt to investigate why we can take an initiative. We have that right, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u361	It's not like I don't feel like getting people to investigate things because I don't believe in them policyally. It's not like that. I just want to be fair. We've had this discussion a number of times. Suppose, for example, we are talking about simplifying a system of implementation. Then there are also times when if you ask "can the Tax Administration in box 3 investigate where wealth comes from?', The answer is "you can't just do that." Then you can look very much for an investigation that says that you then have a lot of reasons to do so. I don't think I agree with that. But what if that's what you want me to do? Then that still means that the Tax Administration can't do that properly in the test they have to do. I try to point out time and time again that this is such an important point for me. Then we are going, because we as legislators all want something together here, so we are going to make legislation and impose something on implementation that they cannot do. Then you get some kind of fiction that we have to do. I just really don't want to sketch some kind of idea of "well, let's take another look at it and maybe we'll get closer." I really have a different policy judgment on this. There is, moreover, a very large difference between, for example, compensation and income replacement or pension replacement. I haven't brought all that with me now, but we've talked about that before. Unfortunately, all kinds of different tax treatment apply there too. And one thing we know for sure: if we make specific exceptions in such a particular stream, we are complicating things over and over again. That's what I'm trying to prevent. And again, many of these benefits assume that tax will be paid on it and will therefore not be net for the recipient if we have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u362	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u363	Yes, but please, briefly, because it is your twelfth interruption and we would do it in two. You're going back in threes now. So I'd like to do it briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u364	I have asked questions about this three times and I have not received an answer. That was in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u365	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u366	If you make a tax return, you must state whether you have assets. Then there is the question, which you can check out, whether that power comes from a pgb meeting over a number of years. Now people don't get that themselves anymore and it's a trekking right, but some people still owe it. Well, that doesn't count with the power. There are all kinds of forms already. I am not asking the Secretary of State to introduce it next year, although I would like it politically. I'm just asking him to look into it. There are already possibilities to indicate that you have special ability and to ask that you are not included. You can even say at the property tax at the Tax Office that it's actually not capital, but care money. We can do that now. And I really am very sorry that the Secretary of State says: it is not enforceable by the Tax Office. That's gonna shut down all the discussions around here. Go file your report, Secretary of State. Then you can check that you have pgb money in your account, and then they're not included in your assets. That should also be possible for injury damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u367	As I predicted, I was afraid that I would disappoint Mrs Leijten again in my reply. At least I was right about that prophecy. It is not the case that at present we have sufficient insight to make the cost estimates that it is asking for. Again, the starting point in box 3 is that assets held at the reference date belong to the basis of return regardless of their origin. I'll repeat that here again. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer had another question for me about the possibility, should the Commission approve the exemption from the insurance tax for broad weather insurance, of implementing this exemption retroactively. This suggestion is, of course, sympathetic, but with retroactive effect does not mean that it achieves the primary objective of the measure envisaged by the cabinet. After all, the aim is to make wide weather insurance more attractive, so that the level of insurance increases. I think we can agree on that. Assuming that that approval is obtained from the Commission after farmers have completed the broad weather insurance for 2019, the retroactive effect is to grant a tax reduction afterwards. So that doesn't affect the behavior at the front, which is to take out the insurance. That is the objective of the scheme. In addition, retroactive action is a legislative instrument where some restraint is appropriate. This applies not only when it is not favourable, but also when it is favourable. The retroactive effect also leads to implementation problems for the Tax Administration and to administrative burdens on insurers. All the insurance tax already paid should be repaid by retroactive effect to the insurers, who in turn should pay it back to the insured persons. In short, the idea is sympathetic, but it is not an attractive option. In that sense, therefore, I will not welcome it either. Mr Omtzig asked about the usefulness of the demand for an income replacement disability insurance for the continuation of pension support in the event of incapacity for work. I see the Room coming up again. His question is also what would be wrong if this demand were to lapse. In any case, I am pleased that Mr Omtzigt and I are in line with the importance of ensuring income replacement in the event of incapacity for work. Mr Omtzigt pointed out that it was sometimes found very expensive in practice, and that it would be unreasonable if these professionals were unable to continue their retirement. However, for long-term continued retirement, an income replacement benefit at the level of assistance is already sufficient. This is important from several points of view, as it also reduces the use of social security. In fact, I would like to avoid, as I say to Mr Omtzigt, that we are taking away a fiscal incentive to insure you against loss of income in the event of incapacity for work by allowing this continued pension provision to continue for a long time if no income replacement benefit is received. In addition, I consider equal treatment of workers and professionals to be very important in this regard. Workers' pensions are subject to a similar condition. Also because of the effects on employees, I do not think it is desirable to make a specific exception for Ib entrepreneurs and performers. Finally, in my response, Mr Omtzigt already feels a little where it is headed.... that the budgetary effect associated with the expiry of that condition is not negligible. It's on the revenue side, maybe a few million. Mr Omtzigt had another question, including on the question of retirement. In fact, he asked for a response to the following two points on continued pension support in the event of incapacity for work. Firstly, the collective pays the indexing of the pensionable wage. Secondly, there is no need to increase this franchise for insurers. The Cabinet considers it important to join the collective, in this case the members of the pension fund, for the determination of the pension base for the voluntary continuation of the pension build-up by the disabled participant. If the indexation of the pensionable wage is higher than the inflation correction of the AOW franchise, this leads to a higher pension base and is indeed paid from the point of view of solidarity from the collective. However, the pension structure of the collective pension scheme, which is the logic of the concept of pension scheme, will also increase at the same time. In the reverse situation, where the AOW franchise is increasing more than the pensionable wage, it is not unreasonable, in the government's view, from the point of view of solidarity, to limit the continued pension build-up of the disabled worker, because in that case the pension base of the collective is also falling. He is therefore treated in the same way as the collective in which he wants to participate. So it works both ways. With regard to the issue of the insurance franchise, and whether it is frozen, I would like to stress here that the situation is not very similar to that of pension funds. In fact, there is already an established legal relationship with insurers. In short, this means that the insurer's obligations and the contribution rights of the disabled participant are already established. These can therefore no longer be changed. For this reason, it has been approved that the whole pension scheme does not need to be adjusted during its term. After all, that would not be possible. This therefore does not apply to pension funds, with a constant review of the continuation of the structure and of what happens in the pension regulations for the other members of the fund. Changes to the pension rules are therefore automatically applicable to the non-contributory continued pension of the disabled person. In the case of insurers, this is different, so the treatment can also be different. This is an explanation, but it was a bit long. Mr Van Raan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u368	There is still a question from Mr Omtzigt on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u369	I don't quite understand. If a person has become permanently unfit for work, then the legal relationship is also worked out. If you are in the IVA or WGA at 80% to 100%, you also have no employer. Then the situation is that you are with an insurer and the situation that you are with a pension fund is extremely similar. Then why would you treat those two differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u370	I don't think so. With a pension fund, you keep breathing with what your collective does. So that's not a right either. But in the case of pension insurance, there is indeed a fixed right if you arrange it through contributions to the insurer. Then you do not have to breathe with the collective; that is your right. In the other case, make a comparison. What happens to the person unable to work under that scheme? It can therefore continue with the collective, but it breathes with the collective in both positive and negative terms. That doesn't have to be with the insurer, which is why there's that approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u371	It doesn't have to be with an insurer, but it also happens with an insurer. There are also insurance companies where you're just in an investment collective. In fact, almost no insurer offers a defined benefit contract, because they have become so expensive. They're all investment contracts with an uncertain outcome. And yet it doesn't have to be with all those contracts, when you have to index the franchise in comparable pension fund contracts. Wouldn't it make more sense to treat them equally, because the participants are at risk both in one contract and in the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u372	No, I really think that's a misconception. With these premium schemes, if you do it through an insured scheme, you do not breathe with the collective. Let me stress that again. It's your arrangement, and it doesn't matter what all the others do. With a collective pension fund, you remain collectively responsible for and the results of your investment policy, and Mr Van Rooijen does not yet jump on the results for the level of cover. That's where you breathe. Why would you give someone who is unfit for work a different structure of the franchise than the rest of the participants? I honestly do not see the logic of that. I do see it under an insured scheme, because you already have a pre-established contract there. Then adjusting the franchise to your collective group doesn't matter at all. So I really think there's some kind of logic in the system, which I don't think needs much adjustment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u373	Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u374	Well, Mr. Chairman, we're not finishing this with a question. I shall therefore come back to this in writing, both on the second and the first points, which I have not yet addressed at all. That is the point that there is simply no voluntary membership of the professions. But I'm gonna get that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u375	I can imagine. These subjects were also not part of the Tax Plan. That is therefore less important for this legislative proposal. These were interesting questions, which I would at least like to have answered today. I look forward to our written correspondence on this fascinating subject, which is also a bit of a hobby of both of us, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u376	Before then, we will have a question from Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u377	Yeah, the Secretary of State's got it all figured out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u378	Yeah, I noticed that, too, to be honest!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u379	I'm just giving him the information...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u380	I missed that so much!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u381	...that in two weeks' time I'm going to jump up as Minister Koolmees, his party mate, there to explain why the solution of the average premium has to be through the coverage rate, so that the elderly are not indexed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u382	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u383	Mr President, I fully admit that this was a bit of entrapment. I won't do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u384	Then I give Mr Nijboer the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u385	Yeah, I have a very short question about that broad weather insurance. I would like to give the SGP what it has brought in with the CDA; that is all very well. Only the letter received by the Chamber says: I have asked my officials to look for cover so that this proposal can be financed. My simple question is: is this also enough coverage for the cabinet in future when opposition parties come forward with proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u386	If I recall correctly, this is a motion adopted by a majority in the Political or Financial Reviews; I forgot that for a moment. For this, as a cabinet, we have said: we are also going to take care of the cover. I don't think it was about opposition or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u387	The Minister of Finance is not present, but the budgetary rules are now as follows: if a majority of the House finds something, there is no need to find cover, and if the opposition finds something... No, I thought it was a bit of a strange passage. I do not think it would be accepted by any party in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u388	I now understand Mr Nijboer's point. He says that if you normally hear me comment on a motion or amendment, I will also say something about solid coverage. Yes. That's true. Then Mr Van Raan had the question of whether I can confirm that the idea of the CO tax deposited at the industrial table is in line with what DNB said. Indeed, it is true that a CO2 tax for industry has been included in the cabinet juice valuation on the main elements of the climate agreement. It'll be worked out like a stick behind the door. This subject might have been a little bit more part of greening. That is why we have been asked on the table to come forward with a proposal. Indeed, it is true that such a charge is actually in line with what DNB itself indicates as a good way to look at potential CO2 taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u389	Mr. Van Raan, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u390	Very briefly. That's good to hear. Of course, it's specific about what the height is. DNB specifically mentions at least €50 of the tax already available per tonne of CO. Are we really talking about €50 per tonne? That was the question. Indeed, it was already known that you wanted to give the CO levy to the industrial tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u391	Then the answer is no. It's not exactly the DNB proposal. But it's the same kind of charge. And I wanted to underline that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u392	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u393	Then Mr Omtzigt would have indicated that a motion had been adopted by his hand which saw the deposit of an annual accounts of large commercial foundations. He indicated that this should be done as soon as possible and asked when the effects would follow. In his direction, I would say that Minister Dekker for Legal Protection will involve this motion in his draft proposal for transparency in the flow of funds to civil society organisations that he is preparing. Minister Dekker states that he is aiming to consult a preliminary draft of this report this year. Mr Omtzigt also asked me whether I would like to take part in the work on the earlier adoption of Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg. They had questions about the domicile distribution of flow companies. Whether a ban is possible and desirable is currently being examined. This research will also be supervised by DNB and invested with DNB. The answer to Mr Omtzigt's question is therefore a short yes. I hope he heard that. Mr Omtzigt also asked when exactly the conference on European air traffic taxation would come. He asked further if a date could be found. Let me say again that I very much like to organise this conference and that I also hope that it will be a very good conference. I hope that there will be not only Secretary of State for Finance, but also Transport Ministers. They're often responsible for that sort of thing. In short, what I really want to say is that this is not organized overnight. My goal is to make it a success, before the summer of 2019. The aim of the conference is to work with other Member States of the European Union to provide the Commission with ideas for further development. We would like to tempt the Commission to make a proposal on this. Only the Commission can take the initiative to tax aviation at European level. If it turns out that the Commission does not want that, or if we do not get the countries to do so, we will of course continue our own initiative with a number of countries around us. Many countries around us already have a flight tax, but not all in the same way. We will continue to discuss with them whether we can come together. We assume that they know that such a tax makes the most sense if not every country does so in its own way, but if we all do so in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u394	However, a question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u395	Thank you for the commitment to do so within about six months, if that is the way I hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u396	Summer, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u397	Yeah, summer starts on June 21st. All right, let's make it seven months. I assume that we, as parliamentarians, are simply welcome there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u398	I haven't really given it much thought. But if that were true of you as parliamentarians, it would also be true of the parliamentarians of all those other countries. If you want to bring together all the parliaments and the ministers of Transport and the ministers of Flying and the State Secretary, you will make my challenge even greater for the summer. But I'll see what the best way is for this too. I don't have any reason not to invite as many people as possible, but we have to make sure everyone has their own time to do something. If all that snows, because 180 people are going to formulate their opinions in five minutes, it won't be that successful. Let me think about that. It's no secret. That brings me, Mr President, to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u399	Thank you. Very good. I can see that one more question has remained. He's going to repeat it to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u400	But I do not rule out the possibility that it may have been answered at the moment when I was not in the Chamber. So excuse me in advance. There are two further questions. A question was about compensating for a very long story, but it is at least about compensating for the energy tax on lower incomes through the health care allowance system. That's what the Minister said he was watching. And then the Secretary of State says: our proposal to do so is not the most targeted. That is the appreciation of the proposal to link it to the healthcare allowance. This suggests that there are targeted solutions. That's what I was curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u401	You're quoting from my answer, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u402	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u403	I'm sure I'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u404	Good, because that means that the Minister also actually indicates that there may be other targeted methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u405	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u406	Sorry, the Secretary of State. This means that the Secretary of State indicates that there may be other targeted methods. That's what I'm curious about. A second point that I have not heard addressed, but perhaps it has happened, is that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate has provided us with a calculation at a previous budget meeting, saying that we can pay for the energy transition very easily. Then he'll charge us a growth rate. Let me explain. He's giving an index.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u407	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u408	Mr President, we are dealing here with the mathematician. I just want to check that method.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u409	But you've already asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u410	Yeah, but I didn't think there was an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u411	Then let's see if the Secretary of State is in a position to reply now, or else we will do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u412	That might still be possible, but I think that question was about Mr Wiebes saying that you need several things to make the method a success. For example, you also need economic growth. As you grow into a sustainable society, that transition takes money to stimulate things, for example. To stimulate things you need tax revenues and for tax revenues you also need economic growth and activity. Actually, he says that as long as we stay successful in doing what we do, there's a better chance of a successful transition. Now I don't have the numbers one, two, three in front of me and I don't know if colleague Wiebes literally wanted to calculate all the numbers, but the thought behind that is of course just right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u413	And that was the question of control, because the figures behind it are based on an average growth rate of 2.2% per year for 12 years. Well, that's never actually happened before. As long as the growth rate of 2.2% per year is not decoupled from CO emissions, and that is not the case, you are growing with more CO emissions, whereas you should have just less CO emissions. That's the problem that's attached to it, and I just wanted to see if the Secretary of State recognizes that problem. So you're basically putting out the gasoline fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u414	That's not true. The point Mr Wiebes was trying to make is justified. You're gonna need a little growth to pay for the transition. We must, of course, take into account from day one that this growth is accompanied by as little CO emissions as possible. That is exactly the reason for greening. And everyone understands that the climate problems will not be there tomorrow; we're already in the middle of it, but we won't notice for a while. So everyone knows we have to start now. In fact, I think that Mr Van Raan and I will soon agree that not only this country, but also many other countries, have started this much too late. Only here is the idea of a successful transition without anything of economic growth, which will always be accompanied by emissions. Mr Wiebes was right to say that this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u415	Thank you, the Secretary of State had come to the end of his term. I would like to suspend the sitting for two minutes and ask Members to join me before we start with the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u416	We have reached the second term of office in relation to the treatment of the Tax Plan 2019 package and the Implementation Act of the First EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive. I give the floor to Mr Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is a wise decision. Today is the conclusion of four days of debate on the Tax Plan. The PVV is against most of these proposals, simply because they are completely unfair. Unfair, because despite a well-run economy, the common man still gets nothing from it. So there's no support. The growing influence of Brussels is also striking. So much for fiscal sovereignty. The PVV doesn't accept this. We will continue to fight for the Netherlands. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to reverse the VAT increase on messages and to use the budget surplus to cover this;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to abolish the expat regime and to use the money released to reduce the burden on citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-45]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u418	These are all very good motions, of course, but I saved the most beautiful ones for the last time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Islam in no way serves the general good;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Tax Administration to withdraw the anbi-status of all Islamic organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u419	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, this is the fourth day that we are discussing the tax plans and the ATAD Act, the law implementing the directive to tackle tax evasion and tax avoidance. I'd like to mark a few more points. I will not do that until I thank the Secretary of State for all the answers during this debate, but also in preparation for this debate. Through the Secretary of State, of course, I would also like to thank the officials who are here, but certainly also in another place, to write, listen and think. Thank you very much. I think there has been an enormous amount of work up to the hour, so we certainly owe it. We have had a lot of exchanges on the legislative proposals before us: seven tax laws and a European directive that will ensure that we tackle tax evasion and avoidance. In the tax plans, this cabinet is committed to a tax reduction for people and for entrepreneurs. Moreover, it invests in the public sector. During the debate, I heard many promises from the Secretary of State. My group is extremely pleased that we can look at and deliver the building blocks for a simple tax system, which is important, as well as the quickscan of possible short-term measures. That is an important step. The VVD was and is concerned about abolishing the refund scheme of the bpm, aimed at the transport of care and thus at people who are dependent on public transport because of a restriction. My colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, will be tabling a motion on this point, where I will put my name on behalf of the VVD. It is good that the Secretary of State will look with entrepreneurs for a simplification of the cost of work regime. I look forward to that too with great interest. I'd like to see that one again. That's what I've had most of the points. Before I move on to three motions, I would like to highlight two more points. These are points that we are not yet clear on, namely the VAT for sport and the gambling tax. The Secretary of State has tried to remove our concerns about this. I believe that the commitment on the VAT issue in sport companies is being adequately taken up with VWS colleagues. The rates should not, in principle, be increased. We will follow that closely. For the gambling tax we have a little longer time, but I also heard the Secretary of State say that the toto should not disappear. I also really hope that that will be for trotting and racing. Mr President, three motions for resolutions. First of all, a motion on the possibility for small entrepreneurs to make an annual declaration. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that entrepreneurs spend a lot of time and money on their administrative burdens;]] [[noting that the Government intends to have entrepreneurs make a quarterly return within the Small Business Scheme instead of an annual return;]] [[Whereas this additional obligation for the smallest entrepreneurs could entail a significant administrative burden;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the possibility of an annual declaration for small entrepreneurs, natural persons and partnerships with only natural persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35033-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u420	Then the next motion. It's about the solar panels outside the ozb. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the laying of solar panels contributes to the sustainability and reduction of the energy bill;]] [[noting that the value of solar panels is included in the tax measure for the local charges to be paid, such as real estate taxes;]] [[Whereas it penalises the laying of solar panels by a higher ozb attack;]] [[calls on the government to develop a proposal to keep solar panels off-line;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how future sustainability will not be discouraged through higher local burdens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35029-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u421	Mr President, I have one more. That's a short one about monitoring and evaluating the ATAD 1. Moreover, I had prepared an amendment on this, but because it is a European directive, a motion is a better means. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the implementation of ATAD 1 is a significant step in the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance;]] [[Whereas the legislative proposal may have a significant and complex impact on different sectors;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor and evaluate the effects of the measures of ATAD 1 and to report separately to the Chamber by 2024 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35030-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u422	Mr. Chairman. I told you, we're doing three very important things in these tax plans. We're lowering taxes. I can't say it often enough for the people and for the entrepreneurs. And now it's important that we turn all our plans into action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u423	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Then I will go to Mr Snels, Member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u424	Mr. Chairman. Eight laws, many hours of debate and hundreds, perhaps thousands of questions to each other: what a process! But it was about big issues. It was about the greening of our tax system. It was about sharing honestly. It was about corporate tax. It was at an earlier stage even about the dividend tax. I have also tabled amendments on many of these subjects. I think Mrs Leijten said it yesterday in her first term: tax debates are also ideological. And it is. That's why they're being fed sharp. At the same time, tax policy is at the heart of our democracy. We all contribute to public goals according to capacity, and we do so for around 300 billion a year. And that also means that we have an assignment to ensure that the basis for tax policy is as broad as possible. In that context, I put my hand out because I felt that an important issue in the Tax Plan should be amended. That was about the energy discount for households and the greening of some larger companies. It seems that it has not been possible to reach agreement on this. I'm really sorry about that. At the same time, I have the impression that there has been hard work in the coalition to see if we could do that and get agreement. Of course, I was mainly concerned with correcting the income effects. For that, you also need a shift in taxes between citizens and businesses. So I understand that this is particularly difficult and complicated for the VVD. It's too bad we didn't get out. At the same time, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their commitment. I think it's important that we keep trying this. As I said, I think we should try to ensure that we have the broadest possible support for tax policy. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the debate we are having. I would also like to join Mrs Lodders. I think Mr Bruins, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Weyenberg did it yesterday: thank the officials. Perhaps I can also say something about the quality of the work that is being done. When you see how short a time we Members of Parliament get answers to the many, many questions we get, you realize that this is also part of a well-functioning democracy. As a Member of Parliament, I can see that we sometimes ask a political question and that the answer is a little cautious. We would really like to have an even clearer answer, but that is also part of the answer. It's part of the game. I also sometimes understand the frustration, because we have also tabled and have prepared a lot of amendments, and we are not even going to submit them all. That must be really frustrating considering all the work that's been done. However, it is important, because as a Chamber, it gives us the information we need in order to achieve good decision-making. So thank you very much for that. I still think the Ministry of Finance is the best in The Hague. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two points of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u425	A question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u426	More like a comment on that thanks. We all do our jobs. We work hard, and we have another responsibility as MP. But I think that the support of our Chamber, both in this Chamber and outside it, must certainly not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u427	I fully agree with that. We also tend to make it very late again as Members of Parliament, with all these long debates. All this also needs to be accommodated. A fair point, therefore, from Mrs Leijten. I have two points of substance. I was planning to table a motion on ATAD, but I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to monitor the implementation of ATAD 1 in other countries. I also welcome the commitment that this will not only be a kind of table with crosses to indicate which preferences countries have finally chosen, but that we will also get an analysis. Finally, I would like to table one motion. Too many motions are being tabled in this Chamber, I think. That motion is also a bit symbolic. In addition to the energy discount, in recent weeks I have also been concerned about the reduction in the income-dependent combination discount. In my opinion, it affects low-income families at the bottom of the labour market. Of course, I did a bit of digging that up with D66 and Christian Union, because here you get a sensitive theme. It is about the position of one earner-two earners, but it is also about the economic independence of the least-earning partners. In fact, this is a square circle we're trying to get around. I couldn't do that. I understand that, because it's sensitive, and I understand the sensitivities between D66 and Christian Union in this coalition. This motion is a motion from me and Mr Stoffer of the SGP. These are two parties that, if possible, are even further apart than D66 and Christian Union. Perhaps that is also a symbolic gesture to the way in which you could perform a bridge function. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the income-dependent combination discount (IACK) is an instrument for promoting participation in employment and the economic independence of partners;]] [[noting that the IACK does not currently have a phasing-out path, which also means that two-earners with two high incomes continue to be entitled to this reduction;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness of this instrument is decreasing in people on high incomes;]] [[Whereas this instrument helps to increase the difference in the tax burden between one and two-earners;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to shape the income-dependent combination discount in such a way as to improve the balance between one and two earners and, in particular, to promote the income position and employment rate of partners in families with children at the bottom of the labour market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Snels and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u428	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u429	Thank you, Mr. Quick. Then I'm going to see Mr. Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive and I must also say very factual and clear answer. I sometimes see differences between them. This response was simply clear. Not that I agree with every answer, but I never expected that either. I would also be very concerned if I were. Then I would be unable to table a motion, to draw up an amendment, and no more difficult questions. I would not do that to democracy. Mr. Chairman. There is indeed an extremely large package in which a great deal of work has been done. But I have also heard the promise that we will not do this again; that we will be discussing a substantive law once in a while in spring and not discussing all the substantive legislative proposals in autumn. Because I'm afraid we've left a little bit of a problem somewhere, something we've read all over in that very large pile with all the pieces on my desk. We do have a responsibility here and we know, for example, since what happened to the loan assistance, how painful the mistakes we make here can be. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has been generous with the things he keeps monitoring. This is not only about VAT and sport, and the already mentioned ATAD, but also about toto and trotting and racing, about "the toto will always exist," about second hand electric cars and the second hand German diesel cars. It is about waste mountains that are or are not burned in time and about the timely implementation of the IACK, the AK-measure and the ZW, and that there really is another execution test between the Tax Administration and UWV together. There is also a discussion with the Ombudsman on loan assistance. We have a very long list and I will follow everything well. I also come back on certain points, such as the question of pensions, which were indeed not strictly related to today's debate. I am also very curious to hear what Minister Dekker is going to say about the fact that money from non-free countries is no longer allowed to go to anbi-foundations. I'm really looking forward to that. This autumn is almost over, so this should almost be in consultation. I'd say consult that bill. Please pass that on to your colleague. Consult that bill not only there, but also consult it in the Lower House, because we might find some of that. I was also very pleased with the commitment that all those documents on ING will be examined by ING's tax inspector. I think that's very wise. Then we'll see what happens. ING will then automatically issue a press release that it will indeed have to re-establish the books. Mr. Chairman. We have tabled an amendment, and then slightly modified, whereby municipalities can choose to simply make anbis and sbbis pay the same tax as a house, so that they are no longer regarded as a company and therefore pay twice to three times as much tax. Think of anbi's and sbbis as scouting, village and community centers or multifunctional accommodations, because those village and community centers have often been incorporated into a kind of cultural or playground associations. All things that we consider very valuable. For the sake of clarity, I would like to explain that, of course, it cannot be that a municipality can say: the hockey club and not the football club. Or vice versa, that depends on your political color. However, a municipality can make an exception and a certain group, for example all sports associations, do so and other groups do not, e.g. profit-making associations. I know that different people here have different preferences for what you exclude, but that must therefore be left to municipal autonomy. This is stated in the explanatory statement of the amendment, but I am committed to saying it here for the history of law. Mr. Chairman. I have two more cases on which I would like to table a motion. The first case is, of course, about the foreign registration numbers. In theory they all have to come forward, in practice it hasn't happened for years. So I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all taxable road users must comply with their legal obligation to pay vehicle tax and this should not be avoided by long-term driving with a foreign registration;]] [[noting that persons who move from abroad to the Netherlands and carry a vehicle but are allowed to drive around for a limited time with a foreign registration number, that the main rule is that they have to apply for a Dutch registration number with the RDW and the non-compliance with this obligation is severely punishable;]] [[noting that the government is proposing to use the above-road cameras to detect vehicle tax payers and to remove these photos within one day in the absence of a direct hit;]] [[noting that it is possible to identify defaulters with a Dutch registration number, but not defaulters with a foreign registration number because it must be possible to demonstrate that they are using the road in the Netherlands for a longer period of time;]] [[noting that there may be more evidence of tax liability, such as a parking permit issued for a car with a foreign registration number;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal within six months and after consultation with the Personal Data Authority to maintain both the obligation to register and the detection and penalty of defaulters with a foreign registration number,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35027-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u431	This is also very important for the sense of justice of the Dutch people. Maybe it's not the biggest tax avoidance we still have banks and so on in this country, but let's do something about these cars that we see driving around here. Mr President, the latter. I was pleased with the commitment that employers can pay the study for their employees and use that part of the payroll tax, thus formally notifying the employee's child as an employee. That's a weird guy, but he's in the payroll tax law. That's a possibility. There are already employers using this. They want to ensure that all the children of the workers can do that HBO study or wo-study. That's important. I hope that is more common in the collective agreements than those expensive leasing cars or perhaps the lease bike, which I myself do not like in the Tax Plan. Yeah, there are some things I didn't think of. It is essential that the new generation is not entirely blamed when it has completed the study. That arrangement needs to be clear. That can be done this way, but it can also be done by a common fund. I believe that both roads should be published in the manual and, if possible, also on the website of the Tax Administration, in a separate piece. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting and appreciating that employers grant the children of their employees who study allowances for studying;]] [[noting that employers can grant this allowance to children in college as long as they do so in a general scheme for all their staff;]] [[noting that the student child is entitled to the general tax rebate on his own account and is therefore, in general, not liable for any tax on the student allowance;]] [[noting that a study grant from an employer's fund is also untaxed when the employees contribute at least as much as the employer;]] [[calls on the Government to include in its handbook to employers the possibilities for granting a study grant to the students of workers, so that it is absolutely clear how these opportunities can be used fiscally correctly;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u432	The treatment of eight tax laws in two months' time, when we do not even get them under embargo, such as the budget, is a real challenge to me. I am certainly not someone who wants to complain about workload, but I really think that we are failing ourselves in our legislative task, but also in making measures better, by tackling it in this way. Then we can thank the officials at the Ministry, as Mr Bruins did. Of course we thank them, but we also thank the support here. I see what Bureau Legislation has done for us: reviews and revisions again, because then there was a technical detail again not good. But I really think it's about the most important tool we have to redistribute prosperity. You can think very differently about that. The VVD and the SP really think very differently about it. You need to be able to look at that legally. I will come back to this in a moment, when it comes to the anti-tax avoidance directive. We get it in order to assess it in two months and to analyse it completely, but that means that it has been in the Ministry for a long time. The implementation date is January 1. We have to do it in four months and the government in twenty months. You can't do that. So thank you to everyone who helped. Thank you all. I'll see you tomorrow. In fact, we should do our usual work at a better pace to make better laws. It's about taxes. This cabinet chooses multinationals over people. I really am very sorry that the Secretary of State has not answered my question to him in a millimeter about what he thinks about the police chief on television saying that he has to choose between a serious rape case or deal with organised crime. He's not going into that. He doesn't deal with stuff that's got a problem with social services. He doesn't care for who the locational climate actually exists. Isn't that supposed to be there for 700,000 people living in declining neighbourhoods who don't see their problems solved, but only get problems in the neighborhood? The Secretary of State just doesn't go into it. You can ignore it, you can ignore it again, but it'll come back eventually, I'll tell the Secretary of State. The location climate applies only to the companies that come here. It doesn't apply to the people who are here. Luring companies is a high-profile goal. I don't want to say they have to pay 100% taxes. That's not the point at all. I'm fine with companies coming here. I just think that the locational climate is also related to security, to the police who can track down all crime. Then that 4 billion years in, year out to business is, as far as I'm concerned, the wrong choice right now. Then there are the measures when it comes to the people themselves. Rich is chosen over poor. You have a tax cut if you have a higher income, a right. And if you have a lower income, are a family with children, you have to wait and see every year if you are compensated by the supplements. But what you get for sure and can't avoid is a VAT increase and a higher energy bill. Not the polluter pays, but the one who cannot avoid that energy bill, who pays the higher taxes and gets a little compensation. Then it is said: no, everyone gains in purchasing power, because our tax measures are so great. The CPB is simply piercing that and saying: that is not because of the tax measures at all, that is because of the increase in family allowances. Fine to do, but the child benefit was actually for the children's costs and not to repair purchasing power. It's just being abused. I think it says a lot about the government how she's handling this. I have two motions on the Tax Plan, which have themselves explained. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch VAT exemption for commercial sports organisations should be adjusted following a ruling by the EU Court;]] [[noting that this amendment invades municipalities and commercial operators of sports locations and they fear higher sports rates for their residents;]] [[Whereas the introduction of too soon can have a major impact on people's participation in sport;]] [[Whereas it is not desirable that excessively rapid implementation undermines the subsidy schemes built up by the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America;]] [[calls on the government to consult municipalities and commercial sports operators and give them one year to find solutions in their organisation and inform the Chamber about this when presenting the Tax Plan 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the planned abolition of the refund scheme for the taxation of passenger cars and motorcycles, the bpm, for taxi vehicles is disproportionate to the target transport;]] [[whereas the market share for the transport sector is so small that it is not foreseeable that the abolition of the refund scheme will create a demand for hybrid or electric vehicles for which car manufacturers will produce specific products;]] [[considers that sustainability measures should not result in dependent people no longer getting out of their homes;]] [[calls on the Government to re-offer to the Chamber the abolition of the refund scheme for the bpm in the Autobrief III, or as much later as the market offers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-50]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35029-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u433	The Secretary of State just claimed that my proposals on that anti-tax avoidance directive would lead to more tax avoidance. What a weakness of a Secretary of State who lays down a law. What a weakness from a Secretary of State who gets criticized. But here we are not able to control things as quickly as we stand. We know one thing for sure: when EU law is stepped up, it is abused nine times out of ten. Because if you dig into the case law, you'll just find that all kinds of other countries are doing it differently and there are also alternatives. So I think it really sucks that we should study this in two months. We are not getting the legal analyses of the EU's operation of free establishment or free movement of capital and we are not getting a comparison with other Member States, but oh, we would do best in Europe. Mr. Chairman. The boss of the Central Planning Bureau simply says that this cabinet can be stricter about which countries you define as tax haven. He believes that the cabinet should define more clearly when a company based here is a letterbox company. It wipes the floor with exactly the points I touched. You can boost the demands. This cabinet doesn't do that. He says he's doing it, but he's not doing it. I have tabled amendments to that effect. I really assume that the Secretary of State is not hiding behind EU legislation. It is possible through this implementation, for example through the effective rate. All the countries around us choose to calculate what a company actually pays in tax, that percentage. Not the Netherlands again. And where the Netherlands makes an exception, you know that it says: oh, with that we can be a tax haven in that group of countries. So it's just gonna stay that way. Please do not enter an exception for tax havens in your construction for your subsidiaries you control. We introduce an exception when you can have it in your corporate structure. Just don't, especially with substance requirements we have now. That's a ticking list that's easy to match. Then use open standards, such as all the countries that I have listed do not receive an answer to this and make sure that you simply limit the interest rate deduction more: not at 30%, but at 10%. And then say that this would lead to more tax avoidance, really bullshit. Hiding behind EU law, the Secretary of State will do the same if he cuts the housing corporations once again. Four months of rent pay tenants a year directly to the treasury. Less money to build, less money to do house repair. Just everything, anything to smoke out the housing corporations. That agenda's been around for a long time. It has been run in this Chamber for eight years, supported by several majorities, but we see the price of it: a huge housing shortage. I've got two more motions. One is linked to tax avoidance. Because saying you want to be the best, but not knowing exactly what's happening is unwise to me. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that SEO has carried out an illuminating study of the money flows flowing through the Netherlands and that this study serves as a zero measurement to monitor the effect of withholding tax on interest, royalties and dividends; Considering that more measures will be taken in the coming years, such as CFC and the reduced interest rate deduction................................................................................................................................................................................................................... there may be stricter substance requirements for tax treaties and tax deals between large companies and the Tax Administration and there may be measures against double-non-tax-via-informal capital structures, I am sorry for the jargon, but that is only clear enough; considers that this investigation is a good start, but because only one specific measure has been examined and is not helpful in following several measures taken to avoid tax; calls on the government to introduce a zero measurement of other measures. Mr President, I have a wrong version here, I see. Uh... I'm sorry. Uh... I would like to amend her, but I have two motions here which I would like to make with Mr Van Weyenberg and one with Mrs Lodder's version. I can't see that until now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u434	Mr President, is it not a good idea for us to give Mrs Leijten the time, at the end of everyone's first term, to present them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u435	I think it's a passable path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u436	I'll handle that with two hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u437	I see agreement. That's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u438	It's kind of annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u439	That seems clear to me. Fine. Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I'll be back with you shortly. Then we'll go to Mr Van Weyenberg. He's from D66 and he's about to start his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u440	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking everyone who has made it possible to deal with the Tax Plan for more than 25 hours. Of course, I thank everyone within our own Chamber, rightly praised by many. I hope we're not driving them crazy tonight. I'm gonna hold on to my heart at the same time. I would also like to thank all the people in the Ministry who have provided us with a lot of answers. Asking a question is sometimes easy, but when I see what very precise answers there will be, I am always extremely impressed by the content. Mr. Chairman. We have been talking for a long time about a large package of measures that reduce the burden on labour and increase the pay for work. We're gonna green up the taxes. As far as I am concerned, that is an important first step. We are going to tackle tax avoidance more strictly with a change of direction from this cabinet to the past. At the same time, we ensure that the Netherlands is an attractive country to undertake. That's a tax reform. These are important steps, perhaps the largest in the last 15 years. At the same time, much remains to be done. I therefore welcomed the commitment that the Secretary of State will continue to explore the building blocks of that new system. My request is that he should definitely look at box 2 as well, at the cash portability. I think that is very important. It was also good to see that, I think, the whole Chamber thinks that we really need to take steps in this, no matter how different we sometimes think about taxes. These are often very fundamental differences of opinion. Mr. Chairman. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State is going to keep a very close eye on a number of issues. He's gonna monitor the supply of electric cars and the second-hand market. He's gonna monitor if they're not all going abroad. He's gonna see if all dirty diesels from Germany are coming our way in the next few days. He wants to talk about the gambling tax, also with the trotting and racing to make sure that they are not the victims of that measure, because that is not the intention of course. Mr. Chairman. We are also going to do something about VAT in sport. It is still a widely shared concern that sport should not suffer. There's a subsidy scheme. The Secretary of State is optimistic that the money earmarked for this is quite sufficient to compensate for the financial disadvantages, but we must, of course, continue to do so. Finally, although that is certainly not the most important issue, we need to monitor how other countries implement the anti-tax avoidance directive. I was pleased with the addition of Mr Snels to see to what extent that is more than just a cross. Just because the systems are so different, you want to have more insight into them. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels said it himself, but let me also briefly refer to it: I have been able to spend a lot of time with Mr van GroenLinks recently. I have also made an offer to maintain the 4 billion off the energy tax. Of course, we switched over the cover. As coalition parties, we thought it was a balanced package; I also thank them for their good cooperation. But we really tried. Unfortunately it didn't work out, but this way of trying to find each other, I also liked it very much. Hopefully next time with a better result, I will tell Mr Snels and all the other colleagues in the opposition who would like to have that conversation with me and colleagues. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled amendments. They are still being assessed, especially the amendment to change the lower limit from 7% to 9%, which is now a low-tax country. This is important for the implementation here and important if we are to deal with the withholding tax later. In doing so, we are making the fine approach of this Secretary of State, who, as far as I am concerned, can be proud of the change in the approach to tax avoidance that he is initiating, even stronger. Mr. Chairman. A motion has been tabled on my behalf by Mrs Lodders on the ozb. I would have liked to say 'also on behalf of Mrs Leijten on a follow-up study', but all good things come to the end here, I say with a wink. I still have one I'd like to submit myself. It is indeed about ensuring that people do not suffer from the measure of the refund scheme, including taxis and the transport of care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to further green taxi transport with the abolition of the BPM refund scheme as from 1 January 2020;]] [[noting that this measure may also have an impact on the transport of care and target groups;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor that there is sufficient and timely supply of highly efficient and emission-free vehicles for the transport of care and target groups;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor the effects of this measure, together with relevant departments including VWS and parties such as municipalities and providers of healthcare and target groups, and to take action in the event of unforeseen effects;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber about this for the treatment of the 2020 Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Weyenberg, Lodders, Omtzigt, Bruins, Snels, Nijboer, Stoffer, Azarkan, Van Rooijen and Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35029-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u441	Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to work. I believe we're raising almost 300 billion. In the last 25 hours, we've spent about an hour per 10 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u442	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Then I'll go to the next speaker. That is Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u443	You're still bringing ideas to the PVV. They keep their mouths shut and that saves another 10 billion next year for the people, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I would also like to thank colleagues, the staff of the Ministry of Finance and the staff of the Registry. Remember, we also met on Friday this year. That was also because the Tax Plan was not fully completed at the time of filing. The dividend tax and subsequent measures had yet to come. I would also like to thank the staff of our own groups in detail. As has perhaps already been noted, the PvdA Group attaches great importance to Parliament's position vis-à-vis the cabinet. I have said a great deal about this, including the absence of the Minister of Finance. I won't repeat that, but it fits in. But it also fits in with how laws are treated. This year, I thought the cabinet's response was very good: content and also adequate. But I found the design, eight laws in such a short period of time, Mr Omtzigt too, and Mrs Leijten said something there about "the cabinet must also be aware that the Chamber is a co-legislator and has the right of amendment, not good. The cabinet must also recognise that it itself has a department of 1,500 men, but we have one and a half men and a horse's head, 0.8 fte or so per MP, who have to deal with all these laws and make amendments. That affair is pretty crooked. Especially since it is a lot of technology, it really takes more time from the Chamber if you want to come to careful legislation. The Council of State also points that out. The Secretary of State has also acknowledged this. Yet it happens every year. That is why I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this Tax Plan has dealt with eight legislative proposals in full;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives is a co-legislator and the right of amendment must be exercised with care;]] [[Whereas the Council of State also points out that it is desirable to deal with as many tax laws as possible separately and earlier in the year;]] [[calls on the cabinet to submit tax laws as widely as possible throughout the year as from next year, so that only the legislation really necessary at that time is dealt with in the Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u444	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber didn't take no for an answer. We've been sitting here for four days and there's been a lot of questions asked. I do not want to give that impression, but it is really too much to ask for a careful legislative process to set this up. The responsibility for this lies not with the Chamber but with the Cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I come to the final assessment of the tax proposals. The great thing about the design of our debate sessions is that we are still getting the judgements on the amendments. The Chamber can surprise us positively. It can also say: well, it is also good that you have put these proposals to the effect that the VAT increase should not be continued and that the flat tax should not be applied in an amendment, and we are taking them over, and we are giving a positive opinion. I don't expect that. But it can be done on the more precise amendments: helping start-ups and making it difficult for investors to take over cities by asking for a 10% transfer tax. We have already discussed the disease law, and I have less hope that this amendment will have a positive opinion. But with regard to the amendment I tabled with Mr Stoffer of the SGP in order not to raise interest rates on student loans and to limit the expat subsidy to the beaming standard, I am still fully expecting a positive opinion. I hope to receive that in a moment. Nevertheless, I think that basically we know what the verdict will be. The PvdA Group will support the technical proposals, the proposals on greening and gambling tax and also the tax avoidance measures. The latter feel like a giant stone in the shoe. I find the answer about compensating housing corporations the least convincing of the whole series of answers. First try to get an exemption of 363 million and then compensate for 100 million, I find unconvincing. I also find the table not convincing that we are not cutting back on this cabinet period in order at the same time to see Minister Ollongren make a beautiful ornament with 'they get 100 million for sustainability'. So it is not compensation for this measure. That's not a fair presentation. It's either one or the other. Will sustainability be reversed for this compensation? Or is it sustainability and housing corporations get a decent bill for choosing? The latter is, I think, the case. The tenants pay the price and I think that the cabinet really has too little eye for the tenants. Finally, the Tax Plan. Yesterday I gave my first opinion on this matter on behalf of the PvdA Group. I do not see here a progressive tax system that stands for social democracy, a fair tax system in which the broadest shoulders bear the heavy burden, the lowest incomes are spared and sick people and people in rental homes, who often have lower incomes, are most advanced or at least not left behind. By reducing the top rate and increasing the VAT rate, this Tax Plan is going in the wrong direction in all these areas. For this reason, the PvdA Group will not support the proposal of the Tax Plan, that one law of the eight laws. This also applies, of course, to the 4 billion tax cuts for large companies. So, the PvdA Group will not support two of the eight laws before us. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u445	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer, for your contribution. Then we go to the next speaker and that is Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u446	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for all the answers. I would like to endorse the words of thanks that have been expressed by my colleagues. Thanks also for the recognition given by the State Secretary to the other way of evaluating plans, namely to see to what extent plans contribute to limiting the rise in temperature. And that these are still 3C plans and we aim for 1.5C plans, with the broad concept of prosperity helping us. It is also nice that within twelve months we will read in leading tax journals how well the Dutch approach on tax avoidance is working and the Dutch link in the tax haven chain. The words about the bank that starts with I and ends with G and the pharmaceuticals we see as positive. We will have an incentive motion on this later. As far as protein transition is concerned, it is nice that the Secretary of State also mentioned it and that he sees the importance in the long term. For green steel, because that's what the words were inspired on, we're gonna do it. I actually asked for the same encouragement for the protein transition, so this will undoubtedly be discussed. And while the Secretary of State gave the CO storage again at the climate tables tonight, almost at the same time Frank Elderson, director of De Nederlandsche Bank, repeated the heart cry in Pakhuis De Zwijger that the government itself should come up with a CO storage of at least €50 per tonne as soon as possible. So it's gonna be there soon, too, I guess. At the VAT rate for pet medicine and the use of space we are still talking. Mr President, before I vote on the motion, I would like to conclude by saying the following. I note that the nature of our questions and our comments is very topical and urgent, but that the answers are more frequent than not in the future. And making sure that the next Tax Plan can pass the 1.5°C test is part of that from now on. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, despite the fact that the new measures to combat tax avoidance will always have companies that can successfully postpone or adjust taxation;]] [[whereas this is a burden on citizens and businesses who simply comply with their legal tax obligations;]] [[Whereas, in addition to tax measures designed to make tax avoidance more difficult, there should also be a signal that tax avoidance should not pay;]] [[calls on the government to recover as much as possible from companies which do not comply with their statutory tax obligations the underpaid tax;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35028-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u448	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. The next speaker is Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u449	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers and I also thank the officials, whom we all see sitting there at full strength, at least those who are visible. There are many who work behind the scenes. I would also like to thank them for the many and above all good legislative work. Too bad the debate is taking place in the afternoons and evenings, even tonight in front of a completely empty public gallery. There were two of them last night. That used to be very different. A full house in the daytime, including journalists. Mr. Chairman. This is my last debate on a tax plan, at least in the Lower House. That is why I have also touched on some more general themes. It's a very big tax plan. It's been remembered by a lot of people. The Tax Plan is an important legislative project, every year and certainly this year. Article 104 of the Constitution says that taxation is only levied on the basis of law. It is our job to do it only in that way and in a good way: no taxation without representation. I support the proposals to increase the distribution in the year. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to place the principle of capacity at the heart of the preparation of a new system. After all, you have wages as income from labor and former labor. The latter is therefore deferred pay. There is actually no reason for tax discrimination between current and past work. As a result, the effective AOW contribution for employees runs from 0% to 5%. For the lowest incomes, the premium is 0% and between 25,000 and 35,000 it is 5%. The reasons are the extremely high tax rebates, the general tax rebate and the labour rebate. The latter already requires more than 20 billion, and with that we could reduce the rates by 5%. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pensioners are entitled to up to half of the general tax rebate;]] [[Whereas the argument for this injustice is that pensioners do not pay an AOW premium;]] [[Whereas the argument for this injustice is no longer valid because large groups of non-pensioners, in particular low and middle income, pay no or hardly any AOW premium because of the tax rebates;]] [[calls on the Government to equalise the general tax rebate for pensioners and workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u450	Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that the old people's discount does not expire at once with €1,200, €1,300 or €1,400 if you have €1 more income, but we think that the reduction in the old people's discount, for which we are grateful to the Cabinet, is going far too fast, also compared to the much slower reduction in the general tax discount and the labour discount. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the old people's discount until 2018 was reduced very abruptly with an income of more than €36.057;]] [[Considering that the old-age discount will continue to be phased out much faster than other tax reductions in 2019;]] [[Whereas age discrimination in taxation is undesirable;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the reduction rate of the elderly discount from 15% to 5%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u451	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has not convinced my group of the proposals on gambling tax, which also affect football toto. The toto may not disappear, but a very heavy burden is imposed here. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Act adapts gambling tax for sports betting causes significant financial risks for the sports sector and the many charities supported;]] [[Considering that the effective entry into force of the Remote Gaming Bill (KOA) is not foreseen before 1 July 2020, thus optimising the overall tax regime in the 2020 Tax Plan is still timely;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone by one year the Gaming Tax on Sports Bets Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35031-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u452	Mr. Chairman. I've been talking about the marginal pressure. I'll be very brief because of the time. However, I would like to point out once again, and I would point out to the Secretary of State, that in the proposals, there have been four measures in the replies to us, which have also shown that the leveling of nearly 4 billion has been achieved, in particular by the increasingly rapid reduction of the working cut and the introduction of the lower rate for the deductions and, above all, by the five years of freezing of the new start-up income for the top rate. I referred to that in yesterday's debate as the Quick Tax. The Bolasting meant you're taking the elderly to the next drive earlier. With this Fast Tax, the people in the middle groups will go €9,000 earlier to the highest rate. €9,000 earlier! That's what I call the QuickTaks, a variant of the Bolasting. Mr. Chairman. We continue to be deeply concerned about the respectful effect, or rather the lack of respectful effect, of fiscal legislation. I mentioned the expat arrangement, although it softened something, box 2, where that did not happen at all, ATAD 1 and also the fiscal unit, which fortunately we only have to talk about at the beginning of next year. I would like to give you the following message: be careful in the interests of legal certainty, to which citizens and businesses are entitled. Mr. Chairman. I come again to speak more in detail about the tax on donations and successions at a VAO that we have requested. I have talked about this in detail. It is actually very underexposed in this debate. I continue to be deeply concerned, but I wish the Secretary of State every success in this great, heroic task. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the motion for a resolution by Mr Hoekstra. The minister may not be here, but he'll listen, or he'll hear from you. In the answer to us on the collectible law, there were arguments about how it all works. I thought the end of the argument was special enough to remember here. It was said: 'and it should not be expected that one of the parts is so politically controversial that the careful parliamentary treatment of other parts is at stake'. That was in line with the Hoekstra motion. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that my group regrets that the write-off, the abolition of the Hills Act, will begin on 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u453	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I'm going to see Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u454	Mr. Chairman. It was four long but still beautiful days, I must say. It's the first time I've seen it. It's been really nice days. Thank you for that. Certainly today I also enjoyed the way in which the Secretary of State replied. This isn't my field of expertise. I think it's mostly your field of expertise, and you could see that. Mr. Chairman. I very much liked the fact that the Secretary of State also addressed my questions regarding the simplification of the tax system. I am very glad that this also continues to give thought. I can assure you: not only with you, but also with us. So in the coming period too, we will regularly ask you whether this will lead to concrete results in order to get a little closer to a flat tax. And maybe we'll find each other over the next few years. Mr President, I have four other points which I would like to make briefly. I asked about the export tax on waste. The Secretary of State indicated that I had a good point, but at the same time indicated that there was a point: we are not going to do anything about it. I have given it some thought, and I think that's just right, because on-going contracts you shouldn't want to infringe. I do have one specific question about that, to understand it correctly. This means that for all the new contracts we are going to conclude, there is a level playing field. The Secretary of State nods. Then I've been right about the answer. Mr. Chairman. Another point concerns asbestos. We have tabled an amendment on this. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for going into this in more detail in his reply. Thank you, too, for the positive treatment that was in it. My heart is therefore full of expectation as to the assessment of the amendment immediately. I had asked for the broad weather insurance to start with retroactive effect. The Secretary of State's answer has convinced me. Indeed, this will not have a beneficial effect, because no one who has to close it by 2020 will benefit from it. I can totally agree with what you're saying. It is therefore an excellent justification in this respect. There was one more point in Mr Nijboer's interruption. In addition, something came to mind. He said, is it common for you to file motions without cover, and are they being taken over? I think so, because at that time there was another motion, the Asscher and others motion, on the waiver of the discount on apprenticeships, and it called for 'to increase the budget of OCW by 19.5 million and to seek cover for it and get back to it'. Then we'll have a level playing field, won't we? But I understand that Mr Nijboer does not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u455	That motion even had cover, but it was taken away at the request of the coalition. The parliament that is tabling a motion is really different from a State Secretary who sends a letter stating that he is asking his officials for cover. That really is a fundamental difference of state law. I don't have to teach the SGP in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u456	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u457	There really is a substantial difference between a State Secretary who sends a letter and says "I have asked my officials for cover" and a Chamber that gives a directional ruling to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u458	We had previously tabled amendments on this subject and covered it. So basically we're almost even, so to speak. Fortunately, we both have a solid impact on this. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. I have one more point, about something that is very important to us, namely the cement of our society: the volunteers and the charities. We have also tabled an amendment on this, in order to reduce the cut in donations a little bit. I am very curious whether we have found a compromise with the amendment tabled. I'll find out in second term. Mr. Chairman. I have no further motions. However, I would like to refer very briefly to the motion which I am allowed to table together with Mr Snels or, better still, if we have already done so. Mr Snels talked about two parties that are so far apart and yet they put something like that down. I was thinking, how come? I think that's first of all because we're both fathers with a heart for families. Then you can just hit those bridges, too. That's a lesson for all of us: that way, with a warm heart for something, you actually go everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u459	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I would like to invite Mrs Leijten to table two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u460	I hope I have the right one, Mr President! Mr. Chairman. Thank you to colleagues and to you for this opportunity. It's never actually happened to me before. I have once exchanged motions in a general discussion report. Then I had two VAOs in a row; that was when I was a spokesperson. But that I had the wrong version hasn't happened before. I have a motion, together with Mr Van Weyenberg, on the tax avoidance measures that are going to be taken in the near future and how we can monitor exactly how that is going to work. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SEO has carried out an illuminating study on money flows flowing through the Netherlands and that this study serves as a zero measurement to track the impact of withholding taxes;]] [[Considering that more measures are being taken in the coming years, such as the CFC rule and interest rate deduction limitation, hybrid mismatch approach, multilateral treaty, potentially stricter substance requirements in the ruling policy, possible measures against double non-taxation through informal capital structures;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a follow-up study to see if more insight can also be given in other money flows and tax structures, and if possible to carry out zero measurements there,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35030-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u461	I shall table the next motion with Mrs Lodders. I said a week ago on Monday: beware, here comes a constructive proposal. That was funny because of course you try to do everything constructively, but I do like to see that the VVD and the SP find each other in this. In the past, apart from each other, we have also asked questions about the problems of injured victims and compensation for them, which have to pay a lot of capital taxes. They see that that pot, which is there to save itself for the rest of their lives, because they can no longer work and have great damage due to the accident, runs out so quickly that they are no longer compensated until the end of their lives. There are a lot of problems behind this and we are asking for an investigation. I tried to get as close to what the Secretary of State said as possible. I hope it worked. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recipients of injury benefit are sometimes in uncertainty about possible tax claims;]] [[noting that for some groups, the treatment of injury benefits sometimes leads, sometimes not to entitlement to supplements or own contributions to be imposed;]] [[noting that different groups which have received compensation and/or injury compensation through special assets are eligible for supplements;]] [[Furthermore, noting that injury damages are excluded by the Ministry of VWS from assets for the calculation of the own contribution in the Wmo and Wlz;]] [[calls on the Government to make an effort to identify the approximate number of people who have injury compensation, which is the financial attachment if injury damages are excluded from the property tax, how the injury could be excluded from the property tax and identify the feasibility by the Tax Administration, and inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35026-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u462	Oh, I have something official.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u463	Yes, Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u464	We've been talking about how busy it is and how hard everyone's busy. The same amendment was tabled twice yesterday. That is the amendment under the Business Package on item No. 30, I say out of my head. And I tabled another amendment when the abolition of the dividend tax was still a plan to prevent that abolition. That abolition is no longer in place, so that amendment may lapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u465	Thank you. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u466	...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u467	Oh, sorry. I'll give you the floor with the microphone on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u468	I also have an amendment that I can withdraw. That was also before the abolition of the dividend tax was on the agenda. Around the Financial Reviews I had my own locational climate package, and there was an amendment that had already been prepared and tabled, on an extension of the Wbso, the Research and Development Promotion Act. If it is correct, that is the amendment to item No. 17 (35028). That is one of the few things that was good in the cabinet package in the review, so I can withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u469	The Leijten amendment (Doc. 8) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u470	Following on from what Mrs Leijten said, I therefore note that the amendment that has just been withdrawn has been implemented. For the abolition of the dividend tax has not continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u471	I would also like to point out the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u472	I would like to invite the Secretary of State to proceed to his second term, including the appreciation of the motions and amendments tabled. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u473	Thank you, Mr President. I think we're gonna move on soon. I almost wanted to thank everyone. I guess I wouldn't, though I would have meant it if I'd done it. That actually applies to everyone who has been involved in this process. A comment was rightly made about the amount of work that has been done not only by Members of Parliament and everyone involved, but also by us. In response to Mr Nijboer's motion, I will say something about this later. If you are talking about macho legislation in the wrong sense of the word, then a tax plan, and certainly this, is certainly an example of that. Mr Omtzigt and others also said that we should be careful not to make mistakes in speed. Fortunately we do have some checks-and-balances, but it's just a lot. So I really want to express my appreciation for those Members of Parliament who have been able to ask so many good questions with their support. Good. So I didn't want to say any of that. At the same time, I believe we are now dealing with 36 amendments. Oh, no, it's two less now. I hope I don't make any mistakes in the commentary. I'm gonna do the best I can. Then there's another motion or eighteen, nineteen. For the sake of clarity, we are going to send a letter tomorrow to your Chamber containing all the summaries, including the amendments and the appreciation I have given. I hope that this will make it possible to deal more quickly with the assessment now. He'll come by tomorrow too. Anyway, no more stalling now, but start fast. I shall begin with the amendments tabled to the Tax Plan for 2019. I will only mention the number of that bill once in the hope that the rest will work out: 35026. Mrs Leijten has the amendment to item No. 27 to introduce an additional VAT rate of 6% on tap water. There's cover for that, too. We have discussed this before in the debate. I do not think this measure is desirable. That's why I won't advise him. Moreover, the coverage was not in line with the budgetary rules, because we have a separation of income and expenditure. In terms of feasibility, this amendment also did not look very appetising. That's why I'm telling you this. Mr Stoffer has the amendment to item No. 33 submitted with a view to gradually reducing the threshold for the grant deduction to structural 0.7% in 2023 from 2020. Non-periodic donations are currently subject to a threshold of €60 and 1% of aggregate income. The amendment proposed to reduce that threshold to 0.7%. In order to compensate, an assumed decrease in the performance of this tariff measure has been accepted. However, we believe that this amendment will not directly lead to additional donations, but rather to an increase in the deduction. I don't think that's the point. Although the amendment is seen as feasible by the Tax Administration, it does not contribute to the more sustainable deduction of donations, which is what we want. The budgetary loss of 23 million is offset by a reduction in the IACK ceiling. The aim of the IACK is to increase the employment rate of older people, so we would rather not reduce it. Then there's part No. 34 an amendment by Mrs Leijten, in which she asks for one year's extension of the exemption from sport. There is no cover for this, and that alone is why this will not immediately lead to a vote of welcome. But I think I explained in today's debate why I do not think this is necessary in policy terms either. That is why I will not recommend the amendment. Then there is an amendment by Mr Snels, Mr Leijten and Mr Nijboer to item No. 35 I believe that this amendment replaces another amendment on the failure to continue to raise the low VAT rate. That is the proposal of this amendment, but it actually destroys our proposed tax slip. I explained today that we consider this tax shift to be important because it improves our tax mix. The OECD and the IMF have been encouraging us to do so for years. We do not, therefore, agree with the line adopted in this amendment. We consider it undesirable for policy reasons, and I would also like to add that there is no concrete coverage for the sake of clarity. So this too is not recommended. Then there is an amendment tabled by Mr Snels on item No. 36 on the maintenance of the permanent foot in the IACK. He wants to introduce a phasing-out path. The amendment is, moreover, budgetaryly neutral. So this time we can't chag about the cover. It cannot be that, but at the same time Mr Snels will soon see that we are making other choices. He'll understand that, too. I can tell you a lot about why we do that, but I think he knows that too. We therefore consider it inappropriate for policy to be pursued, and we will therefore be dissuaded in this regard. Mr. Chairman. Then there is an amendment tabled by Mr Snels and Mr Leijten to item No. 37 on shortening the duration of the 30% scheme. This capping should start on 1 January 2020 at a base of €100,000, so that the maximum unpaid fee will be €30,000. Budgetary revenue seems to be 177 million. Over the entire cabinet period, it leads to a cover deficit of 265 million. So here too, there is insufficient coverage in the amendment. But apart from that, here too, we have discussed it with each other for a long time. In general, it is important that not only the increase in complexity that this entails for services is a reason for us not to welcome, as this also applies to the policy impact on the locational environment. So this also applies: dissuade. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 39 by Mr Nijboer and Mr Stoffer. They are actually asking that, as from 1 January 2020, for wages above €178,000, say, the old beaming standard.... should no longer apply to the 30% scheme. They also want it to apply to the existing cases on 21 December 2018 only from 2021 onwards. Budgetaryly, the amendment leads to sufficient revenue, but here again the coverage is a breach of the budgetary rules, namely the separation between the revenue and expenditure framework. So this also applies to the fact that on the one hand the size of the budgetary measure leads sufficiently, but on the other hand the separation between revenue and expenditure has been broken. I would first like to mention the other argument, but perhaps even more important is that there is also a lack of policy. We want to keep the 30% scheme attractive by keeping it as it is. We believe that this capping will create real problems. Moreover, there are also implementation problems in the capping of such rights. So, Mr. Chairman, advise against it. Then I come to an amendment tabled by Mr Nijboer to item No. 40 to reduce the transfer tax for the acquisition of the first home to 0% to accommodate start-ups and to increase that tax to 10% for the acquisition of a third home or more. From a budgetary point of view, this increase in transfer tax by 10% for the acquisition of a third home or more leads to an increase, including in the rate in the second share of corporation tax by 35%. Here it is not about the soundness of the justification but about the expected functioning of the amendment. The main problem is, in fact, that there are demarcation problems in all the points raised. This applies first and foremost to those whom we should apparently treat as'starters'. If there is diversity between buyers, it is also quite difficult to establish a fair demarcation between target groups. There may be differences in bourgeois status, there may be people from abroad, there will be people who buy things together, etc. These demarcation problems are extremely difficult, as we know from the search for a solution to this problem in the past. It even applies to the word "dwelling." There are still many problems surrounding the question of when there is a home of your own. Instead of making these problems easier with differentiation, you make them even harder. It is not just about the demarcation of starters, but also about the controllability of starting. In short, we have a number of reasons to ultimately think that this tariff differentiation is undesirable and can also lead to undesirable constructions to avoid the high rate. Finally, in the direction of Mr Nijboer, whom I see coming to the interrupting microphone, I say that in general the following applies. The moment we give buyers a larger wallet in the housing market by reducing the transfer tax for them, this is mainly for the benefit of those who sell the house. So also from its own policy insight into the search for improvement in the housing market, this instrument is as little successful to qualify as. I therefore also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u474	The effect is, of course, mainly that your start-ups give you a better position vis-à-vis investors. This amendment does something for that. I referred to the remark that the definition of a home is difficult, because I remain exactly the same. It will all be the case in the scientific literature, but in fiscal legislation the house still plays a rather interesting role. The Secretary of State, like the former cabinet, has to do with a whole party of legislation. So it is not a very strange vehicle in taxation to join.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u475	It is already quite difficult to speak of a home, because that is what taxation wants to look at. Especially when it comes to a first, second or third home, the question is: does everything qualify as a fair home? Is that the point? Or is it about people having multiple houses or multiple possessions? Once again, I do not want to complicate things unnecessarily, because, as I have just said, I do not think it is politically desirable either. But you must not underestimate that if you are going to differentiate on the basis of what it is, you are going to face much more problems than Mr Nijboer might now assume. Then I come to an amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg. According to this amendment, municipalities should be allowed to set the often lower owner rate for certain SGIs and anbis for the property tax rather than the often higher owner rate for non-residential property. This is the amendment to item No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u476	52.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u477	Yeah, that's from No. 41 to No. 52 gone, I think. Excuse me. It's a tricky one. Maybe it's a good thing I'm explaining this before I come to my judgment. The first and most important thing is that the municipal law, as well as the amendment, lie in the policy area of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. This also applies to municipal taxes. For people who think I'm dealing with that: that's not the case; that's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Moreover, the Municipal Law is not strictly tax law, nor should it be dealt with in the Tax Plan. During this year's discussion of the budget for 2019, BZK has already rejected a proposal from Mr Van der Molen of the CDA to the same extent. So I think that the opinion of the BZK on this issue is also leading, because in the end this is my colleague's policy area. It was also agreed that the motion would be held until further investigation had been carried out. In order to give a positive opinion on an amendment of the same spirit, I would find a little inappropriate. For these reasons, after the judgment has been given earlier, I come to the judgment "dissuade." But perhaps reference to the treatment by BZK is the best way to proceed with this. Then I come to an amendment tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA on sickness benefits (35026, part No. 42).......................................................................................................................................................................... They want the ZW benefit for those without work to continue to count as an income that determines the level of the work discount and the income-dependent combination discount. This is what we have actually discussed in detail earlier today, and also earlier. Apart from the fact that coverage is not quite in order here too, it is clear that there is a lack of policy, as I explained earlier today. That is why I will also advise against this amendment. Then there is an amendment tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Leijten and Mr Nijboer on part No. 43 (35026), on the waiver of the introduction of the two-disk system and the ib and the maintenance of the four-disk system. In budgetary terms, I shall not go into it. This is not in line with what this cabinet is planning to do, so that we will dissuade it fairly quickly. Here's to it. Then I have an amendment to part No. 44 (35026) by Mr Van Rooijen and Mrs Van Brenn. The amendment envisages the immediate abolition of both the 30% scheme for workers who have been received and the low income benefit (LIV). With the proceeds, something can happen to the AOW. Let's see: the link with the benefit will then be increased by 3%. Here too, we consider this policy to be inappropriate. Mr Van Rooijen will not be entirely surprised, given the discussion we had earlier. Here, too, the budgetary rules relating to the revenue and expenditure frameworks are being violated. By the way, LIV, as it is so beautifully called, is highly intertwined with other concessions. The abolition would therefore become very complex and impossible to implement during this cabinet period. So it's obvious that my judgment is ultimately "dissuade." Then there is the last amendment to this bill. This is from Mr. Omtzigt, Mr. Bruins and Mr. Van Weyenberg. Oh, that's the amendment in part No. 52. I just commented on that. Sorry. I've already given the judgment on that. Then I come to the amendments to the legislative proposal Other fiscal measures 2019 (35027). That's a little less, to be exact, one. The author of this amendment is Mr Van Aalst. This amendment proposes to reduce the percentage of the S&D reduction to zero and thus effectively abolish the payment. It is clear that this is undesirable policy. On the contrary, we think it is important that this S&D reduction exists; it is an important pillar of Dutch innovation policy. It promotes private wage spending on research and development. Abolition therefore entails a variety of risks for the knowledge-based economy and also for the locational environment. In short, I will also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u478	I note for a moment that this is Amendment No 35027, part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u479	10?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u480	Yeah, number 10. And that amendment has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u481	Dissuade, yes. Thank you, because I had another song here, but that could be because we did not get a numbering right and left. Then I will go on to the amendments tabled to the Business Act 2019 (35028). I am afraid to mention the numbers now, but the first amendment to this bill has Mr Azarkan (35028, part No. 6). He asked to refrain from abolishing the dividend tax. I think I have a very long time to go into that. The other amendments in this area have been withdrawn. I think Mr Azarkan has forgotten that for a moment. Anyway, it's still there, so that's why I'm here... That amendment has become superfluous, I'll say. Then there is Mr Nijboer's amendment on raising the rate in the second heading of corporation tax by 0.35% (35028, item No. 19). This will cover the proposal for less transfer tax by start-ups in another amendment. The core is that an increase in the rate in the second letter of corporate tax has a negative impact on the business environment in the Netherlands, both for SMEs and for large businesses. We do not want to do that. We want a pleasant business and also location climate. We consider the amendment to be politically undesirable and therefore we do not recommend it. Then there is the amendment to item No. 20 (35028) by Mr Van Rooijen on the non-reduction of corporation tax rates. He wants to use the proceeds for not further raising the AOW age. I would also like to be brief on this. I also believe that Mr Van Rooijen understands that. We think that is an undesirable situation. That is why we will not recommend the amendment. Mr Kwint has an amendment to point No. 23 (35028) tabled. He wants to raise the high rate of corporation tax by 0.8% and invest the proceeds of 530 million in reducing the pay gap between teachers in primary and secondary education. This is also the case with the fact that the proceeds are politically undesirable. This has a negative impact on the business environment, both for small and large businesses. For this reason, we consider it undesirable and dissuade the amendment. I would now like to add an amendment by Mr Leijten and Mr Beckerman to point No. 24 (35028) with the short description of the reduction of the rate of the landlord's tax by 0.15%. This is then covered by the 1% increase in the high Vpb rate. It is important that the financial space for corporations and their tasks is in balance. Therefore, the rate of the landlord levy is reduced. This leaves financial scope for additional investment in the coming years. The cabinet does not yet see any reason to further reduce the landlord's tax, especially if this is also at the expense of the locational climate. For this reason, we consider it inappropriate for policy purposes and we will also reject this amendment. I would like to add another amendment tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Beckerman to point No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 27 (35028), which regulates that tax investment firms are no longer allowed to invest in Dutch real estate. That was a policy decision linked to the cabinet decision to abolish the dividend tax at the time. We don't do that anymore. We have decided to maintain the dividend tax and thus the direct cause of this property measure actually fell. The problem with the measure was that they would no longer pay taxes in the Netherlands if we abolished the dividend tax. That was undesirable policy, and that is why we proposed it. That clutch doesn't exist anymore. So we do not think that banning is a good idea anymore. That is why we believe that this amendment should be discouraged. Then there is another amendment to item No. 28 (35028) tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Leijten and Mr Nijboer, in which corporate tax is not reduced. The essence of my answer will be clear: we do not think that is a good idea in policy terms. What is it good that there is a good business environment in the Netherlands, both for entrepreneurs present in the Netherlands and for entrepreneurs who want to come here, both for small and large businesses. And so we believe that this amendment should be discouraged. Then there is an amendment to item No. 29 (35028) by Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer, who want to increase the Innovation Box rate from 7% to 10%. The government agreement agreed that the effective rate of the Innovation Box should be increased from 5% to 7%, but a further increase in the rate to 10% would reduce the attractiveness of the locational environment in the Netherlands for innovative companies. That is why we do not recommend this amendment. Then there is an amendment to point No. 31 (35028) by Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Dijk to increase the VAT rate of 25% by 0.24%. From 2019 onwards, this will yield 162 million. This will probably be used as cover for another measure, but I do not see that with it. In the end, we find that undesirable. We would like to reduce the Vpb rate, as you have already understood from me, and that is why we will not recommend this amendment. Then I come to the fiscal greening bill 2019 (35029) with a number of amendments, starting with the amendment to item No. 10 members Van Rooijen and Van Brenk to abolish the tax on tap water. I've already explained quite extensively why I thought that was a bad idea. I used the quote "be wiser with water." This also applies to the fact that tap water doesn't come from the sky as clean as it comes from the tap and that I don't think it's weird that there is a price of tap water. I therefore find the amendment politically undesirable and will not recommend it. Then there is the amendment to item No. 12 by Mr Snels, who does not want the tax reduction in the energy tax of €51 to continue. Before that he had a loss in mind by increasing the second, third and fourth disk of the energy load. As we all know, we find that coverage uncomfortable. I'm not gonna say much more than that. The amendment is therefore politically undesirable and for that reason we will not recommend it. Then there was the same kind of amendment to item No. 14 by Mr Leijten and Mr Beckerman. They wanted the same thing, but they did so with a different coverage, namely only the fourth disc of the energy tax to cover both electricity and natural gas. That too we find policy undesirable and we will be dissuaded. Then there was the amendment to item No. Mr Stoffer, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Ziengs on exemption from the waste tax for individual asbestos waste from roofs to be cleaned up until 2024 under conditions and restrictions to be imposed on AMvB. That is a big task; it was about 80 million m. There was a loss of 38 million, but that was covered by proper coverage through the additional increase in the rate, an increase of €0.73 to be precise. I've said something about it before. In itself, after the upcoming tariff increase, the waste tax is a relatively modest part of the cost of clean-up, but an additional exemption means an increase in complexity on the one hand. On the other hand, the government imposes an obligation that asbestos roofs must be cleaned by 2024 at the latest. That's what we'd like to do. In doing so, an exemption for such roofs may reduce the risk of environmental fraud and illegal dumping. The risk of accidental use and incorporation with other waste must be dealt with. The amendment currently allows for strict conditions to be imposed on it through an AMvB, for example, that there is a connection to the Rural Asbestos monitoring system and that asbestos waste can only be treated by certified removers. In short, there is enough support for this and I am happy to give it to the Chamber. Then the amendment comes to part No. 17 of the scribes Leijten and Laçin; I hope that I pronounce it well. A short description of the amendment is that they aim to avoid the abolition of the bpm refund scheme for taxi and public transport. The amendment does mean a loss of 18 million in 2020 and 35 million in structural terms. Unfortunately, coverage here too is not in accordance with the well-known separation of income and expenditure rules. I would also like to stress that it is not the intention of vulnerable groups to be in the cold. I've said a lot about this, even in an earlier story. This greening measure, the abolition of the bpm refund scheme for taxis, is not a cut in the target transport sector nor is it intended as such. Taxi and public transport operators are expected to opt for the available environmentally friendly alternatives when purchasing a new vehicle. They themselves have made their own covenant on this matter. I'm not going to repeat everything I've said about this. That's not the point. However, we must ultimately discourage the amendment, also because the coverage is not sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u482	Mr President, the Chamber has a budget right. It has become a use to indicate the coverage, but that is actually not necessary at all. I want to be the first to say that. The budgetary rules that a cabinet imposes on itself do not belong to the entire Chamber. We simply have endless budget rights if we decide to do so. And then there's the cover. There is 700 million structural left over at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, structuralally. But no, we'll take the transport of people who are dependent. You can do that just fine. Then you let that be a tariff measure or whatever it is called. The choice to leave 700 million on the shelf, which is structurally underutilized in that ministry, and to raise the bill for people dependent on healthcare transport, shows once again that this cabinet does not have the most vulnerable at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u483	In our previous debate, I have already indicated that it is not my expectation that this will cost those most vulnerable groups. I have said that the sector itself has all kinds of ambitions when it comes to zero emissions. In fact, these ambitions for transport are greater than the ambitions we have in our cabinet. They want zero emissions by 2025. That governance agreement has indicated that this is realistic, but ambitious. I also indicated to the Chamber that I really want to follow what it all means. I have already promised today that I will act at a time when something else is happening there than we expect. So again, for that reason, I also believe that this amendment is not necessary. It is not funny to explain budgetary rules, because they are often bad, and I understand that, but you cannot underestimate the fact that you do not yet know whether it is structuralally committed to another cover, whether it is an amendment or something else. That really is not in line with the budgetary rules. For that reason and for the other reasons I have just mentioned, I cannot help but dissuade this amendment. Then I come to the amendments to the ATAD bill. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Leijten, on part No. 5. They want to include an exception for housing corporations in the Earnings Stripping measure from ATAD 1. I have already explained in detail why this would be a risk of state aid and that this is a choice that we would not want to make. Besides, there's no good cover for it, so I'm not gonna recommend it. Then an amendment has been tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins and Mr Snels in part No. 10 proposing to increase the rate to 9% in the assessment of whether there is a low-tax jurisdiction or state. Moreover, that amendment has no budgetary impact, so I have no comments to make. We have already mentioned that a CFC measure may apply to bodies located in a low-tax state. A low-taxed State is a State with a statutory rate of less than 7%. They are actually asking whether this can be less than 9%. As a result, there is a rather low-tax state. I note that there are not very many countries that are currently qualifying for this, so it may not have much additional effect in practice. Nevertheless, the proposed increase is acceptable, as it prevents one of our European partners from being regarded as low-taxed by our legislation. For this reason, I would like to give this amendment a Chamber's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u484	On this amendment, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u485	How many countries does this affect? My information is that raising the rate from 7% to 9% does not have any effect and does not affect any country. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u486	I dare not say with all certainty that it is not a single country, but I have not been able to come up with one so quickly with my team. However, it may be that we do not yet have all the nominal rates completely sharp on the basis of the latest legislation of the hundred and eighty-one countries, but I do think you can assume that there are very few. Then there is an amendment by Mrs Leijten which seeks to broaden the scope of the additional CFC measure by removing the exclusion of CFCs with substantial economic activities. There is no need for cover for this, because this goes hand in hand with no budgetary loss. Here too, we have spoken for quite a long time why I think that is a bad idea. The CFC is an anti-abuse measure. In the end, we are concerned that the taxpayer should not be affected by real foreign activities. That is in line with the directive. We want to include an exception for CFCs carrying out a substantial economic activity. The amendment extends the scope of the additional CFC measure by deleting this exception. In the case of essential economic activities, the Cabinet considers that there is no abuse. It is undesirable for Dutch companies with real foreign activities to be affected by this. At the same time, the amendment is contrary to primary EU law, which we also discussed a little longer this afternoon, as all CFCs are affected by the CFC measure, including the CFCs where there is no entirely artificial construction. That's not allowed. Because I find it undesirable in policy terms, but also because the amendment is contrary to EU law, I do not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u487	The legal background is raging on all sides. There are a lot of countries that import this. They do not have this reasoning at all. This is simply an opportunity to open the back door and allow tax avoidance via a tax haven for businesses. It is a pity that the Secretary of State is hiding behind a legal analysis he makes but does not share with the Chamber. That doesn't mean we can't refute them either. It is particularly regrettable that he says he wants to do something about tax avoidance, but at the same time opens the back door wide. I think it's a shame that this happens in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u488	I can only disagree with everything Mrs Leijten says on this point. I'm not opening any doors. We have explained to the Court why we are making the legal analysis as we are making it. We believe that your amendment is contrary to EU law. If you disagree with our legal analysis, you can say I'm hiding behind something, but I'm not. This is just our honest opinion. That's what we stand for. That is why I reject your amendment. Then there is another amendment by Mrs Leijten, which limits the Earning Stripping measure to the deductibility of the balance of interest to 30% of a tax EBITDA. This amendment reduces the rate from 30% to 10%, reducing the deduction of interest. I have already explained in the previous discussion of this bill why I think that would be undesirable. That is why I will not recommend this. Then there is an amendment by Mr Nijboer and Mrs Leijten, if I see correctly, in which they want to raise the 7% rate we use for the low-tax countries to 10%. I have just said that it was still around 9% to be done. This is less than 10%. This means that Hungary, one of our European partners, is also regarded as a low-tax country by this measure. We find that undesirable. In addition, the list will also be used for the withholding tax still to be introduced. Within the EU, no withholding tax should in principle be levied on the basis of the interest and royalty directives. The increase also does not contribute to simplification or more consistent legislation as the increase does not equalize the ATEUS tariff test and the other tax tests in corporate tax. In short, I must also advise against this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u489	Mr Nijboer reporting for duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u490	It's about Hungary, isn't it? That is not the country where we for all EU... I can see the PVV waving; they're excited about it. Hungarians are breaking a lot of decent EU legislation on human rights and journalistic freedom. And then we are going to make our tax avoidance legislation less stringent because they have a 10% rate there. That is a very unconvincing argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u491	As you take Hungary into account, in the sense that they do not comply with EU rules, the Commission would do the same to us. I have also indicated that our own interest and royalty directive, which we have also signed, makes it very clear that in principle you cannot levy withholding tax in Europe. That is a directive that we have agreed on. That is why we find this amendment undesirable and we will not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u492	What you do with that is that your tax is kind of a tax charge, if you pay too little tax through that country. Denmark estimates 22%, Germany 25%, Spain 18,75%, Austria 12,5%, Poland 14,25%. If they can do that, is it not just an opportunity to take off from 9 to 10% for this reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u493	No, it's not, if the question is whether that's an opportunity argument. No, it's not. In my opinion, I have really expanded, up to a few times, to explain why these systems have not changed. Moreover, it is not the case that all these countries are simply using these rates that you call them to represent something as a low-tax state. We also use this definition for the same reason in relation to the interest and royalty withholding taxes that we are going to introduce. We also use the blacklist of EU countries. There is a suggestion that we would be more generous. That's not true. We choose a different model. We choose model B and complete it with model A. All those countries you mentioned must have chosen a different system. I have already said that we will continue to monitor closely what is happening and that we will continue to learn from each other. But the idea that they would all be less generous than we are is really a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u494	So these countries are going to reclaim when companies in the Netherlands have paid too little profit tax, because Denmark, Germany and Spain all say: The Netherlands is a tax haven with the rate they set.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u495	These countries don't say that. The European Parliament does not agree with that either. This room won't find it. I don't think so. Let me be clear about that one more time. If anyone thinks so, I am in any case working hard to make it clear that the Netherlands should not have any place in that list anyway. But, again, policy-wise, I just find it undesirable and advise against it. Well, that's my right, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u496	The last amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u497	The last amendment? Well, luckily our records are trailing, because I do have one piece of paper left. That is an amendment tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer, in which, in principle, all the direct and indirect subsidiaries of a taxable person in the Netherlands are classified as CFC, irrespective of the country of establishment or applicable rate... and the additional CFC measures do not apply only if I read it correctly, if the CFC carries on a substantial economic activity. Well, that's a pretty technical short description, I admit. I'm afraid sometimes there's no other way. I think I can be brief. I have said a few times about this CFC measure and the way in which we intend to introduce it, that I think that the choices we make are good. I also think that every time we look at it, we have to look closely at whether it is legitimate structures. We don't always have to deal with them like that. These too will have to comply with the exception for a substantial economic activity. This ultimately leads to a very large increase in the administrative burden for business and also a significant increase in the number of cases the Tax Administration should do. That is a very labour-intensive process. In fact, I really think it's almost impossible to do this. This requires a lot of highly qualified capacity. This amendment has also been assessed as not feasible on the basis of a quickscan, because its feasibility is too much dependent on the availability of highly qualified personnel. But again, the main reason here is the policy undesirableness. The same applies to this amendment, which I do not recommend. Those were the amendments. I also have a number of motions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u498	Nineteen more I've got!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u499	Yeah, let's see if my folder stops with yours at the same time. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u500	I promise I'll follow it closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u501	I'm glad someone's watching with me. You just did that visually, and now you're doing it in a different way. Here we go. Here too I sometimes have to do a little freewheeling to quickly indicate what the motion is about in a short sentence. I'll start with a motion on part number one. 45 (35026) by Mr Mulder to reverse the VAT increase. It's relatively easy for me. There's no cover and it's just a wish. I can only advise against it. Then there will be a second motion by Mr Mulder on item No. 46 (35026) to abolish the expat regime and use the money released to reduce the burden on citizens. We don't think that's a good idea. Moreover, it is quite bad for the location climate, as we have explained. That is not a balance that we would make in this way. I'd advise against that motion, too. The next motion in part No. 47 (35026) by Mr Mulder wants to withdraw the anbi-status of all Islamic organisations. I must advise against this, because this is contrary to Article 1 GW which mentions equality of religions. That's a clear betrayal on my part. Then there's the Lodders c.s. motion. in piece No. 8 (35033) on the possibility of an annual declaration for small enterprises. We have already discussed this in the legislative consultation. I indicated that I fully understand the texts that have been adopted and considered. I'll return the verdict to your Chamber on this. I understand what it says and I think it makes sense. So for this is my qualifying judgment room. Then there is a motion by Mr Lodders/Van Weyenberg in part No. 20 (35029) on solar panels outside the ozb. We've been puzzled about that a little bit longer. I understand very well what's behind this. We have often discussed it in the debate. We have that ozb and you need to be punished by a higher ozb attack if you're gonna do something where we all win. On the other hand, the government is invited to develop a proposal to keep solar panels off-line. If I were a little too positive about that, it is said that the government is not about it and that this has been allocated to the fellow governments. I know what it is. It says'requests the government', but it is mainly about my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, taking that up with the co-governments. If that's how it's gonna be, I'm gonna say that's judgment room. I know what you mean, but we need to be a little careful how responsibility is placed here with the government. Anyway, judgment room because I fully understand the policy goal behind it. Then motion-Lodders in part No. 18 (35030) on the monitoring and evaluation of the ATAD 1 legislative proposal. We have talked about this a little longer. I think it's a good idea to keep those effects in view. We are requested to report separately to the Chamber by 2024. I think that is quite acceptable, so I would like to add Chamber. The next is the motion-Snels/Stoffer in part no. 48 (35026) on the IACK and whether it is possible to find out whether it is possible to shape the combination discount in such a way that there is more balance. Let me begin by making a comment: we have already committed two major investigations to the Chamber, which already require a considerable amount of our capacity. One to the marginal pressure in which this same point of the one and two earners is also taken into account. We are also conducting a study that takes into account the participation effects, including those of the IACK. Despite that research is always wonderful, I think a third study is really unnecessary. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Then there is the motion-Omtzigt in part No. 11 (35027) calling for a proposal to maintain both the obligation to register and to detect non-payers with a foreign registration number within six months, also in coordination with the Personal Data Authority. There are many observations in this motion. I have made a number of comments about how this is done and whether or not the use of cameras is appropriate. At the same time, I agree with what I am being asked to do, or at least what the government is being asked to do about the defaulters, including those with a foreign registration number. So, all in all, I can leave the judgment to your Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 49 (35026) by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins on the study of children. It includes the request to include in the manual which will also be sent to employers what these allowances are. That's what we've been talking about. As I indicated in the first term, I will pass on this wish to the authors of the handbook. It already contains a number of clarifications, but it can never hurt to be extremely clear in how an inspector looks at situations and how an employer should act on that basis. So this motion, too, I'm judging Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 50 (35026) by Mrs Leijten on the VAT exemption for commercial sports organisations. We've already talked about this in detail. That is why I refer to my earlier appreciation of postponing it. I would therefore like to advise against this motion for a resolution. Then I come to the motion on part No. 21 (35029) by Mr Leijten and Mr Laçin on the planned abolition of the VAT refund scheme for the transport of goods by road. We have also discussed this in detail. The abolition of this measure was not a austerity measure. Municipalities also have a duty of care. It is also our expectation that no one will come home or pay disproportionately for this. Again, an administrative agreement has been reached on this matter with all relevant parties. I also promised to monitor this, so for that reason I must discourage this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 22 (35029) by a lot of people on the reimbursement scheme for the transport of care. In fact, it goes a little bit further into the discussion we had to keep the Chamber informed and to inform you about the Tax Plan 2020. The motion also contains a number of justified observations. In short, I would like to give this motion judgment Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 51 (35026) by Mr Nijboer. That was also a motion that we considered for a longer time. For I think many of us will feel that the simultaneous treatment of this large number of legislative proposals should be better. In fact, this motion calls for this to be done as widely as possible throughout the year. We are doing the same for a number of legislative proposals, because we are putting them outside this schedule. There will be legislative proposals whose budgetary consistency will be assessed in August. For these measures it sometimes seems more logical to be in this moment. But if I can read the motion in such a way that it calls for it to be done for all the legislative proposals that do not apply, I think it is very appropriate. In short, I would like to give the House's verdict on this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 32 (35028) by Mr Van Raan, calling for as much recovery as possible from companies which do not comply with the statutory tax obligations. In fact, I have already indicated in the debate that this has always been the case. This motion is a little superfluous in that respect. It is doing even less than we already do, because it says 'as much as possible' and we always want to do so. So I'm gonna have to dissuade her. Then the motion to part No. 53 (35026) by Mr Van Rooijen. He wants to equalise the tax rebate for pensioners and workers. Apart from the fact that it is also uncovered, I consider a different choice of policy, namely the choice of the cabinet, to be more sensible. I will therefore advise against this motion. That will not surprise Mr Van Rooijen, or perhaps he will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u502	Yeah, definitely on this one. We will come back to this later, but I would like to point out that the reason why the half-tax reduction for older people exists was that the elderly do not pay an AOW premium. But that's a public insurance policy since Drees introduced him. So you pay until you get the AOW benefit. Now, the whole system of leveling and tax reductions, which are increasing and decreasing, shows that the workers do not actually pay an AOW premium up to €25,000. On paper they pay 18%, but actually zero. Between €25,000 and €35,000 that is 5%. So we say: if the workers actually pay no or only a very small amount of AOW premium, then the argument is to give the elderly only half a tax discount because they do not pay an AOW premium totally obsolete, by the way, due to incorrect policies, but that is a finding even further than the fact that we find age discrimination. We shall therefore continue to advocate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u503	I'm counting on nothing else. I think that also applies to the motion in part No. 54, where you want to reduce the reduction rate of the elderly discount from 15% to 5%. In the recitals you referred to the term 'tax age discrimination'. This motion is not only unveiled, but also because we are really making different choices than Mr Van Rooijen. So I will also advise against this one. Then there is the Van Rooijen motion on part No. 7. It calls on the Government to postpone by one year the Gaming Tax on Sports Bets Act. I've been talking about this for a while. We've arranged the entry into force by KB. This also follows from EU legislation. Delaying the measure does not clarify this measure. I also think that postponement will not lead to a different weighting of my arguments. For that reason, I would also like to discourage the postponement. Then there is a motion by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Weyenberg on the SEO investigation, requesting that the government also carry out a follow-up investigation to see if there is more insight into other money flows. We have thought about this a little longer. Actually, it's just wise to put that in the picture as well. Once again, we have had a discussion about this zero measurement. You can't measure everything very easily, because you have the counterfactual, so what happens if you don't, sometimes you don't know, because there is another policy. At the same time, in all our policies, it is important that we also try to ensure that this policy is as useful as possible through research. I'm gonna keep finding that. I hope that both proposers do not expect miracles when it comes to what we can do. On balance, however, I think it is a positive appeal to continue doing so. That's why I wanted to give this motion judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the final motion, if we have both counted correctly, namely the nineteenth motion. That's the motion in part No. 55 of Mr Leijten and Mr Lodders. It asks the government to identify how many people have injury compensation, which is their financial impact if they were to be excluded from the property tax, and how such injury could be excluded from the property tax, and also to identify its feasibility. I'm a little afraid I'll come back to the discussion we had an hour ago. It is really difficult for us to get specific data on this injury damages for a cost estimate. Again, the introduction would really be an exception to the basic principle and the starting point we use in box 3. That would also complicate the execution. Again, I have said earlier that I do not think it is a desirable policy direction. For that reason, I must discourage this last motion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u504	Thank you, Secretary of State. I note, then, that we have come to the end of the debate on these laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-10.u505	I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber. I agree with the many compliments that have been made in width to all the substantive support inside and outside this Chamber. I would like to add my thanks to the Stenographic Service, the messengers and the restaurant staff, who have continued to work in the middle of the night. Voting on the laws and the amendments and motions tabled will take place tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon sitting.
