ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the amendment to the Implementing Law on rental prices for housing in connection with further modernisation of the Rent Commission and the introduction of a landlord's contribution, Section 34652.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in Box K. I give the floor to Mr Koerhuis as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Everyone wants a good and reliable house. When you rent, you want your landlord to follow the rules and when you rent, you want your tenant to abide by the rules. In almost all cases, things are just fine. Both parties have a good relationship. Tenants maintain the house with daily chores and landlords ensure that the property is in a good habitable condition. In cases where things don't go well, you go to the Rent Commission or to the judge. That brings us right to this law amendment. Unlike other sectors, there is no proper dispute settlement mechanism in this sector. As a result, tenants can stay stuck with their complaints, because the courtroom is too expensive. I do not think that is the intention, but I do not think it is the intention to go to the Rent Committee for every small thing. You will of course first talk to your tenant or your landlord to see if you can come out together. If that doesn't work, you can go to the Rent Commission for mediation. The change in the law has a number of goals. One: to make the Rent Commission a better Disputes Commission. Two: enter a threshold amount for rent increases before you can go to the Rent Committee. Three: shift the taxpayer's costs to the sector. Four: extend the responsibilities of the Rent Committee. In that order, I would like to assess the proposal. First of all, improving the Rent Committee. It seems to me desirable that the committee should reflect the tasks it has to perform and that these people are there for both tenants and landlords. How is the Minister going to ensure that there are good members in the committees with the right knowledge and good sense of the matter? Moreover, the current system is not transparent for many outsiders. It's like a closed system. How does the Minister feel about that? In addition, the Rent Committee also has mediation powers. This should ensure that complaints can be resolved in a way that is easily accessible, without starting a whole procedure for a ruling. This seems to me to be a good intermediate step. This also depends on the threshold for rent increases before you can go to the Rent Committee. That brings us right to my second point. The reply gives a wonderful example. It says: "In 2015, around 900 requests were about rent reduction and about rent reduction for defects of less than €3 per month. In practice, tenants or landlords often have different, non-financial interests in these disputes." That leads to an overload on the Rent Commission. That is why it is very good that this is being adapted. My question for the Minister is why €3 was chosen. Why not for €4 or €5? And can this amount be adjusted annually or according to circumstances? Thirdly, shifting the costs of taxpayers to the sector. The total cost of the Rent Committee is expected to remain the same. A contribution from the sector is requested: €2,22 per house per year. That's what they pay for a good dispute settlement mechanism, which I'm only okay with. A better Rent Committee will less often lead to expensive court proceedings, as tenants with more complaints can go to the committee. This is expected to lead to a structural reduction of €440,000, which I also agree with. In addition, a more transparent appointment procedure is proposed. I would like to stress once again that almost all landlords are just honest and good, but in the case of the few rotten apples there must be plenty of opportunities to enforce your right. The VVD stands for that. That is why I welcome the motion tabled by the VVD and the PvdA at the end of 2016 to tackle house milkers harder. That has now been incorporated into this law. If a tenant is more often unsuccessful within a year for the same offence, the costs for that landlord go up sharply. Instead of €300, it goes to a cost-covering level of €1,400. And that's a good step. The VVD keeps looking at how we can handle those rotten apples while we're not getting in the way of all those good-willed landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u4	I hear Mr Koerhuis say that he wants to tackle house milkers. Well, I'm surprised. Then I really cannot sit down, because in December, another motion was put to the vote in this Chamber calling for action to be taken on house milkers. It wasn't the PVV, it was the members Van Eijs and Ronnes. And what does the VVD do? It's voting against it! That is my first question: how is that possible? Then there is my second question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u5	Maybe the first question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u6	Whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u7	That's right. The title of that motion was: harder hitting house milkers. I don't know if you read the motion, but I read the motion. It states that it may be necessary to examine whether municipalities should also maintain rent. That's what the Rent Commission already does. That is why we are also having a debate today on the Rent Committee. And that is why I stand here and voted against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u8	So the VVD is for dealing with house milkers. Does Mr Koerhuis mean his fellow group member? For there is a cottage milker in his own VVD group, Mr Van Haga. Is that what he means by that? Is he going to start with the cottage milkers in his own group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u9	This is a silly political game. I'm not gonna play back and leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u10	Then I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u11	Yes, Mr President, Mr Koerhuis was just using big words. He's talking about rotten apples among the landlords. When you say that, you have to be honest and look at yourself, at your own group. 'Cause there's just one over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD does indeed continue to see how we can deal with those rotten apples while we get in the way of all well-willed landlords as little as possible. That is why we have drafted an amendment with D66 and an amendment with D66 and the CDA. With that, we're gonna take those rotten apples even harder and let them pay the cost-covering fare. Instead of after four offences, it becomes after three offences; then you will pay the cost-covering rate after three times the error. In addition, we are going to arrange that it stays longer by extending the deadline to five years. Then you're not back to zero after one year, but after five years. This could be legally difficult. Could the Minister respond to that? What deadline could it be? Because the rotten apples rather pay the cost-covering rate, the fixed fee for all willing landlords can go down. I would like to hear from the Minister how much and what the €2.22 per house per year will be. Fourthly, the extension of tasks. Now you can only go to court with some of your complaints, but later you can go to the Rental Commission for mediation between tenant and landlord. This also saves costs for both parties. It also makes it easier for tenants. Instead of going to court, you can simply send a letter or email to the Rent Committee. However, the proposed legislative proposal also proposes to extend the tasks of the Rent Committee with the power to rule "on the act or omission of the landlord in the context of the products and services provided by the landlord to the tenant." That is too broad and unclearly defined. Theoretically, a tenant could then go to the Rent Committee for any act that he or she does not like. This could lead to a potential overload on the committee, which would make it less likely to be due to the matters that really matter. Last week we received a letter of amendment from the Minister. That is already a step in the right direction. I have another question on this point: can the Rent Committee also ignore small complaints in order to avoid overload? I have another concern, and that is why it is important to add a point to the law. A private house is important for everyone, but there is a large shortage of middle rental homes. As a result, many middle incomes cannot find an affordable rental house. They fall between shore and ship. That is why I welcome the commitment of this government and the Minister to increase this offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u14	Really, what a terrible story this is. So Mr Koerhuis says: affordable rentals. Affordable rentals! It was his cabinet, his prime minister, Rutte, who made sure that the rents went up by 15% from 2012. So tenants can go to the Rent Commission if they pay too much rent, but the problem starts again. It is a policy that is being defined. And that's what you do. Your party, which increases the rents. And if the PVV comes with a motion to get the rents, which have gone up 15%, down 15% again, what does the VVD do? He's voting against it. So stop telling me that you're into affordable rentals, because you're not. You raise the rents and you chase the people out of their homes. That's the VVD. Tell the fair story!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u15	That wasn't a question, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u16	Then my question, Mr. Chairman, is: isn't it, Mr. Koerhuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr President, that is not really a question. This is not really the debate to answer that question either. We are having a debate next week on the state of the housing market. I suggest that we discuss this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u18	Before you go any further, let's have this for the record. Mr Kops, if you're interrupting, it really has to be a debate or a discussion, in this case with Mr Koerhuis. It's just got to be about making a statement. That is why you have your own speaking time. Are you angry now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u19	Disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u20	You may ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking here about the rents, which have gone up in recent years. That's one of the reasons for tenants to go to the Rent Committee. It is good that citizens can do that, so they can fight them too high rents. But then I'll tell the VVD: be honest, because the problem starts with you; you'll make sure that the rents go up in the first place. And then my question is: are you not prepared to make sure that the rents go down first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u22	If anyone in this house is talking about "building, building, building," I am. Building residential properties, middle housing and social housing is the best way to get affordable properties. But as I said, that is a debate for next week. Today we're talking about the Rent Committee. I'll start with my care. I think a house is important to everyone. But there's a big shortage of middle rentals. As a result, many middle incomes cannot find an affordable rental house. They fall between shore and ship. That is why I am so pleased with the commitment of this government and the Minister to increase this offer. At the moment, the Rent Commission can move a middle rental house to the social rental sector until six months after signing the lease. That has a number of undesirable consequences. Firstly, that is not fair to the other potential tenants. Imagine looking at a house and dying to live there. You also have the requested amount for that and you can pay it fine. But it's a middle-rent house, so there's a lot of people interested. So unfortunately, the apartment goes to someone else. Those who sign the lease in which they agree to a rental price. He's willing to pay for that property, otherwise he won't sign the contract. And then, up to six months after signing the lease, he can still lower the rental price, while all those other people would have been willing to pay the amount, and still stand on the street. That is not consumer protection, that is leaving people with middle income on the streets. I think that's unfair. Secondly, the bill gives uncertainty to potential landlords. And that while we're short on affordable rentals and we want those potential landlords to rent out in that sector. That can only be stimulated by removing that uncertainty as much as possible. By adjusting this, it is brought into line with the coalition agreement, namely that there should be more affordable middle-rental housing. After all, a home is also important for all those middle-income people: teachers, nurses, police officers. They can't get into the city right now, just like city families. With this bill, they're all gonna stay out on the street. In the social rental sector, the assessment by the Rent Committee is understandable, given its social function. In the middle rental sector, it is less understandable. There, tenant and landlord together reach an agreement on the rental price, and record it in a contract. The amendment I tabled will no longer allow middle-rental housing to be drawn by the Rent Committee to the social rental sector. This prevents the middle rental sector from getting smaller and makes it even more attractive to rent out such a property. Mr. Chairman. Finally. In dealing with a law, we focus on the points we are critical of. We are asking questions about this and we are tabling amendments on it. I would like to stress once again that the vast majority of tenants and landlords are well-connected. They're in a good place and the contact with each other just goes well. Not only am I very happy about that, but also all those tenants and landlords. The rent committee should only focus on the rotten apples and should also be given the powers to do so. The VVD remains committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u23	A good argument in which it is stated that agents and teachers and nurses also deserve an affordable and good rental house. But it doesn't make it quite clear that you're just trying to deprive them of their rights. Because you say that the people who are going to live in a rental house above the €710, are no longer entitled to obtain their right to an affordable house; we have agreed that housing must meet certain points. You therefore think that these people should be unfairly paid more and no longer have the right to obtain their rights from the tenancy committee. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u24	Again towards Mrs. Beckerman. Imagine looking at a house, wanting to live there, but standing there with ten others. Those other nine also have the amount requested to live there and they can also pay it well. But it's a middle-rent house, and that apartment goes to someone else. So what I don't understand is that the rental committee can draw that middle-rent house, which is a middle-rent house, to the social rental sector. I do not understand why we call it consumer protection that we leave those middle-income people on the streets. I think that's unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u25	Okay, wait a minute: your cabinet first caused a shortage of middle-rent housing. That's why ten people are looking at the same place right now. Then you say that these people are allowed to pay far too much for a house that is not worth it and that these people cannot get their rights. You think that's fair policy? Research carried out by ThePostOnline between January 2010 and February 2016 does not show that half of all rental contracts, half of them, are actually too high for free sector housing. According to the rules, they should be covered by social housing. You were just talking about dealing with bad apples. Are you not making sure that these rotten apples stay out of sight, because people can't get their rights and pay half the tenants too much? That's no good to anyone. Don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u26	If anyone wants to make middle-rental housing a priority, it's us. In my "building-building-building" the second is really middle rentals. The coalition agreement gives priority to middle-rent housing. So I don't understand why you can say that we don't give priority to middle-rent housing. Again, I propose to leave middle rental homes for those teachers, nurses and police officers, for those city families, so that they can live in the city, for example in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u27	The amendment came late. I read it twice: does it really say what it says? There's no title above, but if I had to give it, I'd call it "hup cottage milkers." Mr Koerhuis, the VVD, makes a proposal here for houses, homes, rental homes that are simply covered by social housing. We have rules for that. You can't ask usury rents for that. He's proposing to deprive people of their rights. Then he says: landlords, you are in your right, you may ask far too much; €1,000, €1,200, €1,500 in Amsterdam, or perhaps €2,000 for this type of housing; we support you and we will amend the law for you. That's ridiculous, isn't it? How does the VVD get that in her head?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u28	What I find ridiculous is that it seems as if Mr Nijboer has not read the law. When he reads the law, he knows that a middle-rent house is a property with a rent of more than €711. What Mr Nijboer is now proposing is to withdraw that middle-rent housing to the social housing sector and not to give it to teachers, nurses and police officers, to city families.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u29	It's the other way around. We've defined in the law when it's a social housing facility, and you want to break the law. You have a whole story about the market and that it's so unfair when people bid against each other that they don't end up in that rental house, but it shouldn't be a market. If we leave it entirely to investors and the market in which people bid against each other in cities and rural areas, no one will get a decent roof over their heads. It is a forgery that a house is then lost, as Mr Koerhuis says. Those apartments are taken. It is just that we are asking for towering rents, and that is what Mr Koerhuis wants to further stimulate and drive, even though it is already a big problem. I find it incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u30	You may respond briefly, if you like, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Again, if anyone in this room says "build, build, build," then I am. That first building is really about social rentals and that second building middle rentals. I stand for both, but I do not stand for the withdrawal of the social housing sector by this bill. Like I said, police officers, nurses, teachers and city families shouldn't be on the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u32	Let me begin by saying that I am glad that Mr Koerhuis says so emphatically that the VVD also wants the middle segment to grow. The CDA wants that, too. There's got to be a build-up acceleration. It is not for nothing that we, as a CDA, came up with a proposal during the AO last week to speed up the licensing process, which the VVD supported, which I am very pleased with. But increasing the middle segment is more than pumping in a graph number of homes. It must also have a certain proportion in quality and it must also fit. We can create more homes for families in the city where it is busy, but those families should be able to live reasonably in those homes. There must also be a link between price and quality of these homes. Does Mr Koerhuis agree with me that the safety net in the first six months, as proposed by the Minister, is the only way to ensure that the quality we are aiming for for the middle segment still matters and is appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u33	According to the law, a middle-rental house is a property with a rent of more than €711. In my amendment, I propose that that rental house be a middle-rent house. Having heard Mr Ronnes, I do notice some enthusiasm for giving priority to middle-rent housing. Otherwise, I don't really know what to do with his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u34	With your amendment, you will remove a piece of control, in the sense that the ratio between the quality of the home flowing to the middle segment and the price someone pays for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u35	With my amendment, that rental house remains a middle-rent house, just for those city families so that they can live in the city as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mrs. Beckerman, you've just been here. Do you have another question, finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u37	I have one more question. I think it is a bit sad for Mr Koerhuis. He's being attacked here by his own coalition and by the opposition. So perhaps I can help Mr Koerhuis. He's having trouble finding teachers, nurses and police officers who can't find an affordable and good house. I believe that the whole Chamber is a thorn in the eye. Now there's another solution. You want to make them upright and turn them over to the whims of house milkers. But there is also another solution, Mr. Koerhuis. I'd like to help you anyway, because you're under fire right now. Wouldn't it be smart, since one in three middle-income people can't pay a rent you're proposing at all, to make sure that those people aren't just handed over to the whims of the market but can get back into the social rent? That's good for those people, and that's good for the neighborhoods. So that's what I'm trying to help you with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I understand that you're trying to make a bit of a gap between Mr Ronnes and me, but we both agree on the priority for the middle-rental homes and to create them. Again, we have to build, build, build. That second building concerns middle rentals. In order to create it, we should not, as the legislative proposal now aims to do, move those middle-rent homes into the social housing sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u39	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u40	I'm gonna keep trying to help you anyway. Look that "building, building, building" you can say a thousand times, but "building, building, building" is going very badly at the moment. Yesterday I requested a debate here because half of the planned social housing is not being built at all at the moment. Unfortunately, you did not give me your support. All these plans are jammed. Fortunately, you often call for "building, building, building," so set up a national direction, make that a priority too. You can do a lip service to all those teachers and police officers or you can do something for them. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u41	Ever since I've been in this room, I've been talking about building, building, building. You shouldn't just put that away as a lip service. The first thing I did here is organize a round table with you about the construction plan. I am very pleased with the coalition agreement itself. That starts under "living" building. We have the Ronnes/Koerhuis motion, which is adopted, which asks for the concrete, hard, planning capacity for the construction plan that lies ahead for the million houses that need to be built before 1 April. Mr Ronnes and I want to see numbers and locations there. I suggest we wait and see. Another response to yesterday's request for a debate, because social housing is stalling. Yeah, it does stick up too expensive land. That's what I said yesterday. I think it is very good that it stops there, because I am in favour of as much social housing as possible. That can only be done if you do so on affordable grounds and not, as you suggested yesterday, on expensive grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u42	Thank you. I think you were done with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u43	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u44	I came in during a discussion on the amendment to item No. 17, but I still have a question about the amendment to item No. 14. That's six months from now. Mr Koerhuis proposes to make the difference between the free sector and the social rental sector even greater. One of the reasons he argues for this is that it is then possible that tenants who have offered the most will be assigned the property and that they can then later try to get less rent. I am actually wondering: what kind of tenant halla does Mr Koerhuis actually live in when he thinks that tenants are now able, in tight housing markets, to enter into some kind of open conversation? On the contrary, it is very often the case that the tenant has checked and that the landlord can ask whatever he wants because of the tight housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u45	It is the amendment in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u46	No, it is the amendment in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u47	That's been replaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u48	Okay. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u49	I would like to explain the story again, because Mrs Voortman was not there when I did. At the moment, the Rent Commission can, until six months after signing the rental contract, draw a middle-rental house to the social rental sector. As I said before, there are some undesirable consequences. Firstly, it is not fair to the other potential tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u50	Don't redo your input!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u51	It is true that I am concerned with that argument, that it would not be fair. As if tenants can now decide in some kind of negotiation with the landlord what the rental price is! That's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr. Koerhuis, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr. Chairman. Maybe we should just leave it alone. I'll tell you what I mean in my contribution. If Mr Koerhuis thinks otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u54	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u55	It's not unwillingness, I'd have liked to explain it one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u56	That's better, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u57	I understand that for the sake of time, we will let go of your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u58	It seemed very domestical that you were going to talk to me about what you were going to do. But I understand you. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Rent Committee is very important for a tenant who wants to get his rights. The new law has some good adjustments, but we would like to see some improvements. Let's say two tenants have a big rent increase announced. One tenant can go to the Rent Committee and correct the housing corporation. The other tenant can't do that and has to find a solution of his own. At the moment, tenants in the free sector only have the opportunity to challenge their first rental price in the first six months. A social tenant can always go to the Rent Committee if there is a rent increase or if there is another conflict with the landlord. The latter is of course good. The distinction between tenants is not good. It is simply unfair that social tenants can have their rent checked, but tenants in the free sector only in the first six months of their lease? As far as we are concerned, this legal inequality must be removed. The SP wants the same protection for all tenants, whether they live in social housing or in a free sector housing. So to the Minister the question: why this distinction? Together with Mrs Voortman and Mr Nijboer, I have tabled an amendment to ensure that tenants have equal rights. I would like a reply from the Minister to our amendment. By introducing more temporary leases, the previous cabinet restricted the rights of tenants. With the present bill, the Minister wants to modernise the Rent Committee. Doesn't that include equal rights for all tenants? Are you willing to give tenants of temporary contracts equal access to the Rent Committee? Mr. Chairman. The SP encounters many cases of late maintenance and mold. Sometimes people literally get sick of their own homes. I would like those people to go to the Rent Committee to have an effect on the verdict. For example, the renting committee can now find that there are maintenance deficiencies, but cannot remedy the deficiencies. So if you're in a mold house and your kids get sick from their own house, you might get a rent cut, but you're still in that sickening house. Will the Minister make an effort to ensure that a ruling by the Rent Committee always has consequences? We think that if you get a ruling now, the landlord will not encourage you to actually improve the property. The tenant does have a rent reduction, but the house remains unhealthy or unsafe. That needs to be solved. The same applies to too high rents. If the Rent Committee finds that the requested rent is too high, it cannot impose a fine. Is that possible through the Authority Consumer & Market? Is the Minister finally prepared to pay more heavily for house milkers? In terms of SP, you really need to hit house milkers in their wallets. The rotten apples, which Mr Koerhuis has already mentioned, that go in the wrong again and again and literally squeeze out tenants. If you don't hit it in their wallet, then the tenant still needs something to just commit house fraud. We would like to see a good shovel on top of that. Fines can make it much less attractive for house milkers to ask for too high rents and exploit tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u60	I heard your sound very well, that you want to deal with the rotten apples. I think that's a good idea. Would Mrs Beckerman therefore also consider supporting our amendment, which is indeed trying to tackle those people who are constantly making mistakes harder by increasing the fees more quickly and monitoring them over a longer period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yeah, absolutely. I am very much in favour of that. I do not think that goes far enough, because that is really only about increasing the fees, which, as Mr Koerhuis said, cover the costs of the proceedings. But people can still make a lot of profit by really asking for too high rents. So I support your amendment. But can I ask you a question right away? So, do you vote...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u62	No, Mrs. Van Eijs is about to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u63	That is a pity, because we have, of course, tabled that amendment to ensure that people in the free sector can also get their rights. That is very important, because as I have just said, half of those rents in the free sector are actually too high, according to research by ThePostOnline. So I support your amendment and I would also like you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u64	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u65	Thank you. In order to get you justice, as far as the SP is concerned, there must be as few thresholds as possible. However, the SP is concerned about the additional thresholds that are now being created by law. Tenants and landlords are not equal quantities. The government itself recognizes this by charging a different fee for fees. Then why is the right for tenants restricted by literally raising a threshold? The government's proposal is no longer to deal with so-called minor disputes. But who decides what's small? The cabinet now sets the limit at €3 per month. This may seem negligible, but €1 difference can be the difference between or without a rent supplement. €1 difference can also be the difference between or without social rent. I find the VVD difficult to look at, but for some people it is also €36 on an annual basis. Moreover, it takes time and energy to find out if a dispute is really only about €3 more or less. Then a threshold amount will only lead to bureaucracy. I ask the Minister to waive the thresholds for reasons of principle and for practical reasons. Mr. Chairman. Tenants and landlords deserve an independent judgment. According to the SP, independence must be paramount at all times. But precisely this independence of the Rent Committee seems to be affected. The cabinet wants landlords to pay a fixed contribution to the Rent Committee. Isn't the Minister aware of the expression "who pays, decides"? I wonder if it is purely to make the financing of the Rent Committee dependent on the landlords' money. The cabinet gives the reason that the government itself has not properly budgeted for the Rent Committee. That is strange, because the government has deliberately reduced the funding of the Rent Committee in recent years. Surely it cannot be that, because the government has allocated too little money to the Rent Commission, then a direct party that has to cough up? Surely it cannot be that the government itself complicates the rules on rentals, so that there are more disputes, and then the costs are passed on to the sector? How independent is that to be called? As far as we are concerned, we are talking about independent and easily accessible dispute resolution. That is why we want it paid for by the government... I see Mr Koerhuis walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u66	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u67	Oh, I'll finish my sentence. We want the dispute settlement to be settled by the government, supplemented by fees from tenants and landlords. Is the Minister gonna take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u68	I went to the interrupting microphone anyway, because Mrs Beckerman misses it too quickly. A government has no money. A government gets the money from the hardworking Dutchman. You're saying the money shouldn't be passed on to the sector. Then who is it to be passed on to? Should it, as the Socialist Party always suggests, be passed on to the hardworking Dutchman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u69	We could do it differently. Many of the disputes at the Rent Committee are due to your party's policy. Let me give you an example. Then it's about the short leases. More and more people have no job security and no security of living. These short leases often lead to disputes and then people have to go to the Rent Commission. The previous Cabinets that you supported introduced those contracts. So you make tenants outlaw first. We think it is important that the tenants who have been declared outlawed by you can also claim their rights. Yes, if the government is responsible for that policy and is responsible for letting landlords have free rein, I think the government also has a job to give people their rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u70	It is a pity that the Socialist Party does not answer the question of why it is passing the costs on to the hard-working Dutchman for the umpteenth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u71	There's always a report. Maybe it's okay if you do that as well. My answer is: if you don't want those costs to be incurred... Maybe it's okay to listen, Mr. Koerhuis. If you don't want those costs to be incurred, it might be better to protect tenants better anyway. I have just given you a number of examples. You now want to make sure that people in the free sector, in the middle hire, as you call it, are no longer able to achieve their rights in half of the cases. That saves money indeed, but that means that you want those tenants often to pay hundreds of euros too much per month for their home. The hardworking policeman and the hardworking teacher don't like that either. You know that research shows that one in three of those people can't afford rent at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u73	I'm almost done. It is good that the Advisory Council is given a greater role. Can the Minister guarantee that the representatives of landlords cannot obtain a majority stake in the Advisory Council? I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a law amendment that controls the modernisation of the Rent Commission. The committee's tasks will be extended and the landlords will also contribute to the financing of the commission. This bill is not new. It originally came from VVD Minister Blok from the Rutte II cabinet, but when the negotiations for Rutte III were under way, the VVD Group wanted this bill to be controversial at all costs. Well, we'll deal with it eventually. Can this D66 Minister explain why she thinks this bill is a good idea, and preferably without the old arguments in the explanatory memorandum? This amendment adds to the subjects that can be submitted to the Rent Committee: "disputes arising from complaints from tenants about the products and services provided by the landlords'. The explanatory memorandum gives an example: conduct of the landlord or complaints about the transfer of the property. As far as complaints about services provided are concerned, for example, I have to think of late maintenance or poor maintenance, but these are matters that are already being submitted to the Rent Committee, with the possible result of a temporary rent reduction. In other words, how big is the problem in practice that this part of the law is trying to solve? The note following the report states that it is expected that some 250 tenants will go to the Rent Committee each year. My question is what this number is based on. Indeed, the dome of housing corporations Aedes has indicated that it expects a multitude of disputes. I'd like a response. At the moment, the Rent Committee only makes rulings that may affect the amount of the rental price, the service costs and the amount of the advance on utilities. For example, it can decide on a rent reduction because the number of points does not correspond to the housing valuation system, or it can decide on a temporary rent reduction due to late maintenance. Thus, in future, the behaviour of a landlord should also be submitted to the committee. My question now is whether the Minister can explain what she means by that. Does this include threats and intimidation? And if so, what will the Rent Commission decide? What about rent reduction? So rent cut, because we're dealing with an intimidating landlord? That's weird, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister respond to that? The day before yesterday it was known that more than 200 tenants in the Haarlem district of Schalkwijk have to deal with mold, trek, condensation, cracks in the walls, in short, late maintenance. It is sad that the housing association does not keep its promise of a major renovation and leaves its tenants literally in the cold. The PVV has already asked Parliament questions on this matter. In this case, a rent reduction would, of course, be justified. Of course, but let's be honest: that doesn't solve the actual misery of course. Can the Minister respond to this? Because in how many of the cases where the rent is temporarily reduced, the landlord then also solves the actual problem? Is he actually gonna do maintenance? And in how many cases does that not happen? What the Rent Committee cannot do is remedy defects. (NL) Mr President, then the finances. Currently, the Rent Commission is funded for around 95% by the Empire, and the remaining 5% comes from fees. Now it is proposed to introduce a fifty-fifty ratio, whereby the Empire and the landlords will each pay half. The landlords are going to pay a so-called landlord's contribution and then there is a tax-free base of 50 homes. That word, Chairman, "rental contribution," what does that remind us of? Yes, of course, the landlord's tax, 1.5 billion a year. The landlord's tax is, in practice, rather a tenant's tax because the costs are not often simply passed on to the rental prices. Can the Minister therefore guarantee that the landlord's contribution in favour of the rental commission will not, in any way, be passed on to the tenants? Is she going to make arrangements about that? I'd like a response. Then there's the differentiated fee. Tenants will pay €25 and landlords will pay €300. This last rate of €300 can be further increased if the landlord in question has been unsuccessful more than twice in the same calendar year by the rental commission. The explanatory statement then refers to so-called multi-users, rather: polyplegists. Let us be clear, we are talking here about the hard-class landlords who are deliberately systematically breaking the rules. The recidivist tenants, I'd like to say. The question now is whether the rising fee has a preventive effect. Is it going to scare off the landlords and force them to comply with the rules? That would be nice, of course. But if the answer to those questions is no, will the Commission not in some way benefit financially from an ascending rate, which is to the benefit of many of the victims, from a large number of disputes to be dealt with, because that would result in more and higher fees for it? Let us be honest: that is anything but in the interests of the tenants. In addition, if a landlord is unsuccessful for the fourth time by the tenancy commission in one and the same calendar year, he has to pay an amount of €1,400. Doesn't it become financially more attractive for this landlord not to cooperate at all in this form of dispute resolution, not to appear at the hearing organised by the tenancy committee and just to wait and see when he has to appear before a court? Isn't that worth an amount of €1,400? I'd like a response. Finally, I would like to return to the tasks of the rental committee. What if there are too many tenants in one house and the landlord doesn't have a permit for that at all? What if that landlord tries to legalize that by early termination of the leases with the tenants? Can these tenants also go to the rental committee? For those who have not yet understood it, I have already mentioned it in the debate on the interruption with Mr Koerhuis, this of course concerns the VVD's cottages milkers. Yes, I am looking at Mr Koerhuis, that is what I am talking about. It really is not my intention that the VVD should make an argument in its term for the bühne, supposedly in the interests of the tenants, and in the meantime there is a landlord in its own group who is laughing at the rules. I was talking about this in an interruption, but then you said to me, Mr President, you have your own deadline to bring it forward. Well, I'll do that now. Mr Koerhuis also mentioned affordable housing and lower rents. But how long has the VVD been at the helm in this country? The VVD is responsible for the ever increasing rents. They have risen 15% in recent years. If I remind Mr Koerhuis of that, it is of course very painful for him. I understand that and then he avoids his responsibility and says: no, this debate is not about that. What a load of crap! And to make it even more embarrassing: Mr Koerhuis is also literally walking out of the debate and if he can't handle it all anymore, he calls for the help of the President. It is too embarrassing for words, but it is a sign of the VVD, because everything Mr Koerhuis said in his speech is purely for the stage. It is hypocrisy, because as we know: VVD'ers are not there for the tenants, VVD'ers are only there for VVD'ers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u76	Thank you. Maybe a point from my side. Mr Koerhuis just asked me whether he should continue with his input, or whether it was better to do so at another time. Then I've put that right, too, I hope. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr. Chairman. This law has been on the shelf for a while because we had declared him controversial. But I am glad that we are dealing with this with the new minister. The tenancy committee is an important institution. Tenants can achieve their goals in an easy and cheap way. My group supports the principle of 'polluter pays'. That is why it is a good thing that the legislative proposal will finance the sector itself. Because of the relatively low cost per rented house, this can also be carried well. Although we support the guiding principle of this proposal, there are still a number of points for improvement. Firstly, we believe that the principle has not been implemented far enough. For the financing of the rental commission, a mix of fixed contributions was chosen for each landlord and fees to be paid per case submitted. My group was surprised that the fee was lower than it was covering costs. We understand that when a landlord is unsuccessful for the first time, but that only from the fourth time a landlord will pay the cost-covering rate, we find a missed opportunity. It feels unjust, it is not sufficiently terrifying and it puts all other landlords at a cost. After all, they pay the difference through the fixed base. A landlord who goes wrong so often, consciously chooses to take a risk. By breaking the law the profits are increased and tenants and other landlords should not suffer. That is why we believe that a landlord who goes wrong several times should feel the best financially. We have therefore tabled an amendment which increases rates. In our proposal, the fee for the third case in which the landlord goes wrong already goes to €1,400. Going wrong once can happen. A second time may occur, for example if the rent is not reduced quickly enough. But a third time? Even a donkey doesn't hit the same stone three times. We would prefer to increase the fee even further afterwards. Unfortunately, this cannot be done through the rent committee, as we understand, because the rent committee is not equipped with so-called punitive sanctions. That is to say, the rent committee should not impose a penalty, because we are demanding it in a rule of law. We have therefore sought another way to hit wrong landlords. In the budget, together with the CDA, we tabled a motion, which was almost supported by the entire Chamber, to allow municipalities to impose financial sanctions on house milkers. We hope that the Minister can give us something of a feedback. Then the amount of the cost-covering fee. At the moment, cost-covering fees would be around €1,400. However, we do not want to lay down this fee in the law. The cost of the rental commission can become higher or lower due to time. We want the fee to move along. Only the guiding principle behind the determination of the height we want to capture. This means in this case: in the case of the third case, minimum cost covering. A second amendment of ours concerns the deadline for increases. In the bill, that's one year. That's short. By stretching a procedure, a landlord could quickly avoid higher fees. My group therefore wants this deadline to be increased to five years. One year is really too short, we think. Higher fees are hardly ever incurred. On the other hand, you don't want the rise to last forever. This creates, for example, a very high administrative burden. That is why five years seems like a nice middle course to us. Thirdly, we would like to make the statements of the rental committee more accessible and insightful, for example by making them available as open dates. During the legislative consultation on the Housing and Rijksdienst budget, the Minister made a commitment to this. What is the status of this commitment? Can the Minister tell us when we can expect more information on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u78	Let me turn to Mrs Van Eijs' amendment. According to the proposed law, a landlord must be unsuccessful several times within one calendar year if the fee is to rise. The connection between these different disputes in one calendar year is not really there. They're loose ends. The only connection you could draw is that it all takes place within one calendar year, so within a relatively short time frame. Mrs Van Eijs then wants to extend that to five years ago. How reasonable is that? Suppose a landlord is unsuccessful. That landlord would have to pay higher fees because he was also unsuccessful five years earlier. Aren't those two disputes very far apart? How reasonable is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u79	The idea was indeed after the second time. So in those five years you would have to go wrong three times if you were to add the two amendments together. If the one amendment makes it, then you should have gone even further over the line in five years. Mr Kops says that he does not see any connection between these various offences. We believe that a landlord who has more than 50 units, or at least a considerable number of houses where he can go wrong, should have his business in order. Such a landlord should know how much rent to charge and just shouldn't go over the line and break the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u80	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u81	The final issue I would like to raise is the independence of the Rent Committee. Tenants and landlords must be able to trust that a fair verdict will follow. It is important for the confidence that both the tenant and the landlord can recognize themselves in the Rent Committee. There has to be a certain balance and stay. We understand that the Housing Union and other organisations are concerned about the independence of the Rent Committee when budget law is shifted to the board of advice. Can the Minister reassure them and indicate how independence is secured? What does the Minister think of the idea of evaluating independence after an initial period of three or four years? Locking up, Mr. Chairman. D66 sees the importance of a fair price and a good landlordship for social tenant homes, the interest of tenants who can get them right without having to go straight to court, the importance of a fair playing field for all landlords and thus the importance of a Rent Commission that suits the current time. We hope that the other groups will support our amendments to make the proposal even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u82	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer. He speaks for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you look at the state of the housing market, you're lucky we have such a large social rental sector in these times. You should not think that in cities like Amsterdam and Utrecht, but also in medium-sized cities like my own city Groningen everything would be left to the free market. Only the highest bidder would still be able to live in the city and the rest would be handed over to cottage milkers, who ask for towering prices and house those people in bad conditions, because there are simply far too few houses. If you leave that entirely to the free market, it's gonna be a big mess. You'll get cities that are only for the rich and impoverishment in other neighborhoods. So it's a good thing we have the corporation sector. This includes legislation to ensure well-inhabitable, decent, fine homes for everyone. One part of this is the Rent Committee, which we are discussing today in this debate. I should like to say three things about this. Firstly, I would like to say something about the accessibility of the Rent Committee. Secondly, I want to know what is actually being done when a ruling is made. Thirdly, I would like to comment on the funding, which has already been mentioned by previous speakers. The first thing the PvdA Group finds strange is that we are dealing here with a law on going to the Rent Committee and that it only applies to the corporation sector and not to all the other people who also have a rental house. They should be covered by the same rules. The question to the Minister is simply put: 1) why is that so, and 2) why is it not so regulated in that law that everyone can go there? I tabled an amendment together with Mrs Beckerman from the SP and Mrs Voortman from GroenLinks to make that happen, but it could of course have already been in the law. Why isn't that settled? The second point I would like to make is: what is being done with a ruling? Mr Kops, whom I often hear speaking harsh language but who, in my opinion, had a really good story here in the middle of his speech, said: there may be mold or maintenance can be bad and then you might get your rent cut; you may still see that that happens, but well, you can get a ruling that you get a rent cut, but it doesn't get you anywhere. You can't go anywhere, because you're on a waiting list if you don't think the house is good enough and it's not being repaired. How do we make sure this does happen? I am a member of the PvdA since November, and you know it by now. I've been on some work visits and I've been pretty freaked out by some social housing. I'm not even talking about house milkers, I'm talking about corporations that aren't in order. There are people who spend years with fungus or live in drafty houses for years. The lack of sustainability is truly an abomination; isolation still seems to be invented. You may find that the landlord demands too much rent according to the point system, but that doesn't help people. The unhealthy living situation remains, because it is also just about the living climate in the home. Isn't it too much of a draft, for example? The Minister has given quite good answers to our parliamentary questions. It is unacceptable that this situation should continue. But if the Rent Commission can't force it, what are we actually doing? It's just money that doesn't get us anywhere. I'm asking the Minister for consideration. How does she look at that? Do these powers go far enough? My third point is funding. I thought that taxation sometimes regulates the financing and incentives in detail, but this can apparently also be done in the housing legislation. I see that if more violations are committed, the fees go up and there is a relationship between large and small landlords. The tenants pay less, which is also entirely justified. It always is. I believe that the majority of the Chamber, if I count it a little bit, will bring further refinement to the punishments. That does not seem unreasonable to me, but I think the one-year deadline is short. It also depends on when a verdict falls. Often these processes also take a lot of days, weeks and months. So for a year, I find it arbitrary, but for five years, I think it's a long time. I can see that all this has to be kept up to date, but I would ask the Minister to look at it again. In general terms, the PvdA Group does support the truffles. If you make a mistake more often and your tenants really make life miserable, just sit on the blisters and pay higher fees. I do have a question about the scale of the funding that the sector itself has to provide. Now it has 90% public funding. Me and the PvdA think it's a lot to say, we do that in the financial sector, too, that if you get a lot of business as a sector because you cause a lot of problems, you don't take good care of the tenants and you ask for too high prices, you contribute to that yourself. I think that's fair. The question is whether the speed with which that account is transferred to the sector and its size are still a little in proportion. How does the Minister view that? Is this purely budgetary? The Minister's argument, 'it's not that stable because we're financing it from the Empire', I don't like it. We can just choose here, because we always make laws here that cost structural money in the long term. If we simply include that in the budget, that money is there and people can rely on it. That argument can be used for every edition, whether it is about education, rent allowance or care. So I do not think this is a sound argument. The sector also causes it itself and has to contribute a little. Why should taxpayers contribute to it if landlords are so bad for each other? I find that argument convincing, but it is about the relationship between what you collectively and privately do. Mr President, these were my main questions. At the heart of the housing market now is the enormous tension. I started that, too. The number of pawnshops is increasing. There are huge opportunities for investors. That's what you see in the sale of merchant houses now. You can like the VVD "whore, middle rent!" say because buildings are bought up, cut up and become available for middle rent, but you can also worry if the market position is not being abused. That is why I think that the amendment tabled by the VVD is the 'hup, pawnshops' amendment! Oh, really, really bad. I hope that the Minister will be firm in his refusal to do so. I started with it and end with it: the rent protection in the Netherlands and the social housing, and then not those banlieues like in Paris, are a great asset. We must preserve them here and protect them in these times. There's no need to complain about that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u84	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Rent Committee has been around for over 100 years. Since 1917, the Rent Commission has been involved in monitoring a good price-quality ratio of rentals. The institute is in the service of both the tenant and the landlord, as it operates where the interests of tenants and landlords collide. After the First World War, our country had major problems in the housing market; I can say that there are also major problems in the housing market. Homeowners used the housing shortage to raise house prices. With the Rent Commission Act of 1917, the government of the partyless Cort van der Linden wanted to counter this price rise. We are a century away and the Rent Commission still plays an important role. In general, we can endorse the changes to the law, but we consider it very important what the Minister's view on our amendments is. First of all, I have a number of questions. The number of disputes has increased considerably since the introduction of the income-dependent rent increase. The reason for this increase may lie in the complex regulation in that scheme. What is the Minister's view on whether there is a causal link between the complex income-dependent rent increase and this increase? And if so, what possibilities does the Minister see for improving this, so that the number of disputes can return to normal? However, it is still very unclear what the new tasks of the Rent Committee as a national Disputes Committee will be exactly. Whatever disputes the committee may or may not deal with, will only be determined later, in a ministerial arrangement. Therefore, it remains unclear what disputes are involved here. There is also a lack of the pending procedure. Can the Minister give a look here and also indicate the impact on the Rent Committee on the working stock? In addition, there is the question of whether a pending procedure can be introduced in the process we are now in together. The Rent Commission is now fully funded by the government. The bill now proposes that the landlords also pay. Since the contribution is calculated on the basis of the landlord's tax return, this is largely the responsibility of the housing corporations. Is that right? That's what we're wondering. Where are the private landlords? It would be more reasonable to opt for a system where a contribution per dispute is repeatedly passed on, so that we get closer to the principle that the causer pays. In fact, good landlords who comply with the complex laws and regulations and have little or no disputes with the Rent Commission have to pay for landlords and tenants who do have disputes with each other. That is why we have drafted an amendment together with D66 and the VVD. We're looking forward to the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. Previously, the CDA tabled a motion, but it held it at the Minister's request. That motion asked the government for an arrangement whereby tenants of housing above the liberalisation limit owned by a corporation may always have the rental price assessed on reasonable terms by the Rent Commission, on the understanding that this cannot lead to a retroactive adjustment of the rental price. The Minister replied in writing to that motion, stating that the Rent Committee has a role to play in liberalised contracts only if it concerns the review of initial hires. In the liberalised segment, the Rent Committee can give advice, provided both the tenant and the landlord agree. The Minister agrees with us that we must and can distinguish between corporations and private landlords. We see no justification to arrange anything additional in the case of liberalised private landlords' homes. This is more nuanced as far as we are concerned with the corporations. After all, these houses are often secured and financed with public money. A housing corporation also explicitly performs a social function. On the basis of this approach, we have drawn up an amendment which also allows tenants of housing above the liberalisation limit owned by a corporation to have the rental price assessed at all times on reasonable grounds by the Rent Committee, on the understanding that this cannot lead to retroactive adjustment of the rental price. Conversations with corporations and individual tenants show that long-standing tenants can now get new neighbors who pay much less for the same house. We want to put an end to that. In particular, in shrinking areas, it appears that rents in new rentals may be lower due to the falling market value than in existing leases that have a long history of rent increases. Review by the Rent Committee may have corrective effects. I refer to the amendment on technical translation. I am also curious to hear the Minister's response to our amendment. So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Ronnes. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Where agreements are concluded, disputes will also arise. The same applies in the regulated rental sector. When disputes arise, it is very important that there is an independent and accessible body to which the disputes can be submitted. Today we are discussing the amendment of the law on the Rent Committee. This amendment concerns an extension of the tasks of the Rent Committee, the financing of the Rent Committee and the nomination of its members. This change has a significant impact on both the tenants and the landlords. Through their representatives, I previously understood that they were not well involved in the drafting of this legislative amendment. I'd like to hear from the Minister what's going on. I'd like to hear from her how she involved tenants and landlords in this legislative change. Mr. Chairman. The Rent Commission is an independent body for the regulated rental sector. At present, tenants in the liberalised sector can only appeal to the Rent Commission on the level of initial rental in the first six months of their residence. Furthermore, the Rent Committee can only advise on disputes if the landlord agrees. This seems to be a logical consequence of the freedom of contract between the tenant and the landlord, but still the question is whether that is fair. We see that it is very difficult to find a home in the current housing market. The totally naive image of the VVD that tenants can discuss in a kind of open conversation with the landlord about what a good rental price would be, is totally wrong with the practice. Especially in cities with scarcity, the choice for the tenant to agree to the rental conditions is not at all a free choice. It is precisely in the liberalised rental sector that we see many problems. Too high rents for too small homes, poor maintenance and high mediation costs. Why do we not use out-of-court dispute resolution in the liberalised sector so that all tenants are treated equally? In the spirit of the implementing law, shouldn't this be accessible to all tenants? I have tabled an amendment on this point together with Mrs Beckerman and Mr Nijboer. I look forward to the Minister's response to this amendment. Mr President, then the extension of the Committee on Rent and Rent. GroenLinks has questions about this. The law states that the tasks will be extended, but it is not yet entirely clear which tasks will fall within the remit of the Rent Committee. Among other things, Aedes points out this in a letter to the Chamber. Are the tasks now laid down in the law still being completed by means of lower legislation? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. I would also like to hear from the Minister whether she expects the Rent Committee to be presented with much more disputes and whether the organisation has been prepared for this. Then the financing of the Rent Commission. For GroenLinks, an independent and accessible Rent Committee is of great importance. It is the responsibility of the public authorities to ensure that existing legislation is complied with in an orderly manner. The bill reduces the public contribution to the Rent Committee, which is compensated by a contribution from the landlord. That is therefore a cut in the contribution to the Rent Committee. The government states that there is no austerity, but no matter how you think about the fact that the landlords are going to contribute a larger part, you do not escape the fact that this has to be paid by the tenants. After all, it is the landlords who will have less money left. There is a shift from financing from general resources to financing by the rental sector. If the landlords contribute more with this proposal and they also gain more influence on the budget through the advice board of the Rent Committee, this will also be at the expense of the independent position of the Rent Committee. After all, who pays determines. That seems to me to be the wrong development. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she sees it that way. How is the independent position of the Rent Committee guaranteed? I have a number of other points, but I also see someone standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u88	Yes, Mr Koerhuis wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u89	Question? Yes, because I want to make one thing right. Mrs Voortman referred to my input, but I didn't talk about conversations. I have talked about middle-rental housing, which this bill repeals the social rental sector. As a result, middle-income police officers, nurses, teachers, families, city families are thrown into the street. That's what I've been talking about. I didn't mention any conversations between tenants and landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u90	No. Right, Chairman, the VVD didn't mention any conversations between tenants and landlords. The amendment said that it would be unfair to tenants who would pay more than tenants who raise objections within six months, and that you should want to do something about it. That suggests that tenants all have a choice, that tenants can indeed say "gosh, I would like to pay so much" and "well, I would like to pay so much." People don't have that choice, Mr. Koerhuis. In cities such as Utrecht and Amsterdam and, as Mr Nijboer points out, indeed in a city like Groningen you can be happy if you are eligible for a free sector rental. This is partly due to the fact that the VVD restricted the possibility of accessing social housing for a policeman and a nurse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u91	It is precisely because of too large a social rental sector and too small a middle-rent sector that the policeman and the teacher and the nurse and those families, which are urban families, cannot find a good place in Amsterdam and Utrecht. That is why I welcome the coalition agreement and the VVD and D66 in Amsterdam and Utrecht, because we are working together to create a larger middle rental sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr Koerhuis and I think differently: whether the social rental sector is too small or not. I think you should look at what the target group should be. As far as I am concerned, this teacher or that police officer should be able to access the social rental sector as it used to be. So the target group should be bigger. And if you reason like that, then the social rental sector is just really too small.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you, Mr President. The fee for landlords who are unsuccessful more than twice a year by the Rent Commission will be increased. Whoever hears that will not find this crazy thought, but both the tenants and the landlords say that many disputes arise precisely through complicated government regulations. The Minister will certainly disagree with them in view of this bill, but I would like to hear from her why she does not share the criticism. This bill also gives the Rent Committee the opportunity to mediate. We think this is a good proposal in itself, but we still have a few questions. What are the experiences of the pilots so far? Is the experience gained so far sufficient to ensure that the Rent Commission is able to carry out this task properly? Finally. The legislative amendment that is now before us provides that the Rent Committee will now adopt its own members and that the umbrella organisation of tenants and landlords will no longer be allowed to appoint these members. Why, according to the Minister, is this change necessary? Does an appointment from the parts of tenants and landlords guarantee independence only by appointing the members by the Rent Committee itself? In the spirit of the implementation law cited by the Minister himself, would it not be more logical to have a Rent Committee that is balanced between both parties? I'd like a reaction to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u95	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'd like to suspend the meeting until 3:05 p.m. I'll see if that'll do. Yeah? Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u96	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have, of course, all noticed in today's debate that there is a great need in your Chamber to talk more, and more, than today, about the subject of living. I would like to do the same, and we will soon have the opportunity to do so. So perhaps we should consider the debate on this bill as some sort of appetizer on the way to the wider debate on living. Today we are talking about a subject which is an important subject in the area of living in the Netherlands. There is a bill, which has indeed already been submitted to your Chamber by the previous cabinet, on the financing and modernisation of the rent committee. As has been said, it has been controversially explained. Then came the formation, the new cabinet, and now we can get on with it. I thought it was Mr Kops who said: I would like to know that the new cabinet and the new minister are also in favour of this proposal. This is true, in part for exactly the same reasons why the previous cabinet submitted this, namely that independent dispute resolution is in the interests of tenants but also of landlords, because it contributes to a fairer and better rental market which also includes legal certainty. I think it is very good that the landlords should contribute partly to the financing of the rent committee. They benefit from a rental sector with a good reputation and with an easily accessible dispute resolution. Some of you have already said that it is common practice in other sectors to organise it in such a way that the sector itself contributes to dispute resolution. There are many examples that the sector itself finances and that this works well. In fact, I think it is a very good proposal for this reason, both on the substance and simply on the basis of existing practice. In addition, as the previous cabinet has also argued, this contributes to more solid funding. One has learned from times when savings were made and where reprioritisation sometimes led to different choices. I share that argument too, but again, I think you should do this at the heart of the matter. This bill provides for new tasks for the tenancy committee, for example the settlement of disputes concerning the settlement by landlords of complaints about their conduct. As far as I am concerned, this is also a step forward, a step in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. This is an introduction to the debate. That also answers a number of questions. I would like to structure the other questions along a number of answers about the legislative proposal as such, the contribution of the landlords, the extension of the tasks and the composition and method of appointment of the rental committee. Then there are a number of questions about the threshold amounts. Finally, there are the other questions. Of course, at the end I will deal with the amendments that have been tabled. Mr. Chairman. The bill as such. I have just argued in my introduction why it is a good idea to organize it this way. I would add that at a time when there is a shortage of rental homes in many regions, it is right that landlords who abuse them should be punished. I think it is a legislative proposal that is good to submit at any time, but at this time it serves a specific interest. I shall go into more detail later on on the financial side of the rising fee and what other possibilities there are, also in the light of the amendments tabled. Mrs Voortman asked about the involvement of the tenants and the landlords in the drafting of this legislative amendment. Apart from the fact that the bill has of course been in regular consultation, there has also been contact outside with the organisations, the domes. The Ministry has therefore held intensive consultations with relevant organisations in the drafting of this law. Besides, I don't think that's any more than usual. Then I come to the contribution of the landlords. Mr Koerhuis has asked whether if so-called multi-stakeholders would pay more, this could lead to a reduction in the contribution of the landlords. As we have now filled it out, we simply take into account the income from the landlord's contribution. If more were to come in from the fee than is budgeted, I could well imagine that we would provide for this in the system and that you would take this into account the following year. At the moment we do not foresee that it is so much more that it also works on the contribution of the landlords. If so, you should be able to adjust it downwards in the sense of t+1.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u98	For the VVD Group it is important that the contribution for willing landlords remains low. I understand that it is now difficult to estimate what happens to the €2,22 per house per year, but it is important for my group to consider whether to vote for or against to know what the effect is going to be. Could the Minister promise to send us a letter before the vote indicating what she thinks best and how she sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u99	Of course, I would like to give Mr Koerhuis all the information I have, but the point is that I find it very difficult to make that assessment now. The principle that he puts forward, I share, but in practice we have to see if it is going to happen. I would ask Mr Koerhuis to accept that commitment for now. If it is very small, it may not lead to a reduction in the future. If it's a little bigger, it could be. So I'd like to make that commitment. I do not think I have enough information at the moment to give an estimate in a letter of the €2,22 that Mr Koerhuis is asking for. He also has the opportunity to think about it this afternoon. A number of spokesmen, including Mr Koerhuis and Mr Nijboer, have asked questions about the five-year period. If there are many users of the scheme that go wrong for a longer period of time, what happens then? There is an amendment that sees that but because there are questions about it, I would like to deal with this point now. More than five years is complicated anyway. We also have the Archive Act and the Rent Committee cannot keep all data indefinitely. The longer you make the period, the more administrative burdens it will create for the Rent Committee to do so. For landlords who have a lot of homes, so for housing corporations in general, it also means that they have to pay higher fees. They actually pay a little double, depending on how things work for them at the Rent Committee. They also pay the landlord's fee and they run the risk, if you let it run for a number of years, that they also pay a lot through the fees. So I do hesitate at this point. It is not for nothing that I mention a few factors that point the other way. The proposal looks at one year. Mr Nijboer and Mr Kops have said that a year is relatively short and that five years is relatively long again. Perhaps we should look for a clearer period than five years so that you do not burden the Rent Commission with too much administrative burden and also the large landlords do not needlessly hunt for costs. On the other hand, of course, every landlord would prefer to stick to the rules and not at all come into that situation from paying that fee. So I'd like to think along with the proposers on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u100	I understand the Minister's consideration of saying that five years is a long time. We have also looked for what is then a reasonable period of time. Ten years also feels very unfair. Does the Minister have any idea what a reasonable period would be, for example, which could also be linked to other regulations? The retention of landlord tax data shall be subject to a period of seven years. So a number of data have been running for a long time. What, according to the Minister, would be a reasonable period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u101	Again, the proposal said a year. I agree with the Chamber that this is very short. I've just argued that I think five years is too long. I can therefore imagine that a period of two to three years would be a manageable period. Mr Kops also asked whether the rental fee could be passed on to the tenant. That landlord's contribution isn't very high in the end. For example, we talk about €1 per house. So it's not a big deal. Tenants are protected because the maximum rent increase should not be exceeded. After all, we have agreed that housing corporations have a maximum rent increase of inflation plus 1%. So there is enough protection on that side. Look, a tough guarantee is hard to give, but I think there are enough safeguards in it to ensure that tenants are not unnecessarily burdened with these costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u102	As far as the transfer of the landlord's contribution is concerned, the Minister says that it is not a very large amount. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, But given the huge rent increases over the past few years, the rents have risen by 15%, does the Minister share the view that every penny with which the rents are still rising is too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u103	I have just argued that I think that good agreements have been made to prevent rents from rising too quickly. In that sense, I think there are sufficient measures. And I also think, as I have just said, that the whole proposal is an improvement in itself and that it also guarantees that there is a good, independent and accessible body where tenants can go. This has been financed in a way which I believe is manageable and which does not unnecessarily burden them with higher burdens. Another question from Mr Kops was how it would work out in practice. He was afraid that the system, with a fee of €1,400 covering at some point, would make it attractive for a landlord to just not care about anything at all and not even show up anymore. I don't think that's gonna happen. If the landlord does not cooperate, the Rent Committee can only consider the tenant's views. This is not attractive from the point of view of the landlord, because it runs the risk that his arguments will not be taken into account in the ruling. In my view, therefore, there is an incentive to cooperate in the procedure and to make his arguments heard, even if he were to say: I am already at that high amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u104	But when we talk about the so-called rotten apples among the landlords who deliberately break the rules? Of course, they know damn well that they're wrong. What good arguments would they have if they knew they were wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u105	Yeah, you can't think of it that crazy or those arguments are sometimes made up. In these cases, the Rent Committee is important. I think that, of course, other steps are needed in the end. When it comes to landlords who are stubbornly non-behaving in accordance with the rules, the courts may also have to use them. The spokesman of the Labour Party asked whether the whole scheme was mainly budgetary driven. Isn't it very soon? You have booked it, and that is why it needs to be entered. That's not how I see it. It's another way of financing it. It's been shut down for a year now. Anyway, that actually has nothing to do with it. For the individual landlord it is not necessarily a deterioration. I just think it's a better system. Well, if we agree with each other, if the legislator says we're going to do it this way, then you can just introduce it and I see no need to complicate it and agree to an ingrowth for it. The many users, I think, had already had. The rental fee shall be calculated on the basis of a charge. That's what Mr. Ronnes asked. Based on the distribution of the current housing stock in the Netherlands, it means that between 90% and 95% will be raised by housing corporations. That's the structure we have. Relatively you would say, also because this is related to the landlord's tax, that it is of course easy to use that system. It does indeed mean that the housing corporations finance a large part of this, but at the same time you could also say: yes, they have that role in the Netherlands; they actually have a social role in that sense, so I think it is reasonable and fair to ask them to make that contribution to the body they themselves benefit from. As I have just argued, it is easy to reach, good for the tenants, but also good for the landlords, because that is actually a kind of guarantee that the sector can function properly. Next to Mrs Beckerman's question, is it purely to make the financing of the Rent Committee dependent on one of the parties? It is often about the assessment of regulations that the government itself has made, which is sometimes quite complicated. Once again, I have no objection whatsoever to the fact that if there is such a dispute committee, or in this case a rental committee, which is financed by the sector itself. I also think that this is in line with how it is done in other sectors. In fact, I would like to say the opposite, namely that as it is organized now, it is not really customary and that there really is something to say that the dependence on government funding is decreasing. Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks said that, as I mentioned earlier, the arrangements are sometimes complicated. That's right, we came up with it ourselves. It was a bit along the lines of Mrs Beckerman's question. Here too: yes, the regulation is complicated, but at the same time it is clear, so the Rent Committee has a very clear point on which it can assess. Nor do I find that very different from other sectors. In the financial sector too, for example, we are dealing with rather complicated legislation and regulations, both at national and European level. So I don't think that's a reason to say: it's so complicated, of course there are disputes. No, the regulation is there because we think it is necessary, in this case both for the tenants and for the landlords. Then it is also a good thing that on this basis the Rent Committee can do its job well, even though it is sometimes complicated. The tasks of the Rent Committee are extended in this proposal. The Rent Committee is supposed to assess complaints simply on the basis of the content. This was, by the way, a question from Mr Koerhuis, whom I must look at. If they comply with the framework on which the Rent Committee is to assess, then it should do the same. I am not so concerned about an overload on the Rent Committee, nor is the Rent Committee itself. Of course, it is conceivable that certain smaller complaints should be dismissed as unfounded. Nor is it true that the Rent Committee really has to deal with everything. But again, I'm not so worried about overload. What can tenants do when they're in a building together? Oh, yes, that was a question from Mr Kops. Suppose there are a lot of tenants in a building together, the landlord has a different plan with it. Can they go to the Rent Commission? The complaints system as we know it does not concern the termination of the lease. Of course, you can do something about that, for example when you leave your house you can go to the Rent Committee, but the complaints regulation does not concern the termination of your rent. Then I'll come to the maintenance. Mrs Beckerman has drawn attention to this before. Can the Rent Commission also enforce maintenance in case of late maintenance, poor maintenance, fungus houses, etc.? The tenant can enforce a substantial temporary rent reduction through the Rent Committee if there are serious maintenance deficiencies. That actually works as a penalty charge. But there are other instruments for this. I think they're very important, too. For example, I mention the indication by the municipality to the landlord. The tenant may also be authorised by a court to remedy the maintenance defects themselves, but at the expense of the landlord. So there are several ways to enforce that. I am sure that we will be able to talk about this in another context. Anyway, the Rent Commission is also helpful in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u106	I have a clarifying question. On the contrary, the Rent Commission is also intended to prevent a corridor to the judge. Aedes has also indicated that there are a lot of landlords with overdue maintenance. This means that the number of cases at the Rent Committee has even doubled in recent years. In many of these cases, it's mold houses. Now you're telling me these people have to go to court. Wouldn't it make sense to extend the responsibilities of the Rent Committee? Then we avoid an extra corridor to the judge and also realize a kind of pressure on the landlords not to create these kinds of situations. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u107	I agree with you that it is a good thing that the Rent Committee can play that role. I would also like to avoid the court as much as possible. Moreover, you would like to deal with these matters quickly. But I also think that we regularly see that it is not being remedied quickly enough and that not enough is happening. You have drawn attention to this before. Then I think it is a good thing that this process to the judge is possible and that it is also taking place. In such persistent cases, it seems that this is necessary. But I'd like to see it as much as you do not need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u108	I'm kind of looking for a solution. In the meantime, we often find that there is a fungus house. That's really sickening. In fact, you have to take heavy medication. This is particularly true for children. That really does something to you. I am talking not only about school performance, but also about life expectancy. We are looking for a way that tenants can simply enforce it. I don't think the courtroom is the easiest way. Municipalities don't always do enough. Does the Minister want to see how she could mean more to that herself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u109	That's actually another question. We all really want to get rid of this problem. You mention the examples in which things are not going well, but fortunately there are also examples in which it is being dealt with, in which it is being dealt with. This happens in all kinds of ways, but it is often about interventions in the houses themselves. So now we have a palette of instruments. The Rent Commission and the municipalities can be very active in this. Besides, I think it's still important that there's always a way to court. I think we agree that the problem needs to be addressed. There are several instruments for that. And the hallway to the judge is the stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u110	I'm gonna ask you about this. Wouldn't it be very convenient, practical and workable if a Rent Commission, in addition to ruling on a rent reduction, could simply make a statement as "within a month repair A and repair B are carried out" or "within a month the fungus problem needs to be solved"? Isn't that a very easy solution that is entirely in line with the law that we are dealing with today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u111	The Rent Committee can make a ruling. First of all, the complaint can be dealt with. A ruling can then be given. After that, of course, the question is: will this happen, will it happen soon enough, and what will be the next step? If we're looking together for a way to put the Rent Commission in a position, I think we're in agreement. Except the Rent Commission isn't a judge. The Rent Commission can't do the same thing a judge can do in the end. That's what the little debate I just had with Mrs Beckerman was about. It is good that we have the judge as a stick behind the door if insufficient results are achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u112	The problem is, of course, that a tenant rarely goes to court. You don't. Before you go to court... You still depend on your landlord. Yeah, it could be theoretical, but that's obviously not... We just got one of those Rent Commissions! In my opinion, this is a form of arbitration, and it is not unusual in any sector to enforce normal behaviour in addition to prices and rent compensation. I can imagine that not everything can be difficult when you're bothered. But just repairs, or insulation, or mold remedying, I think that is a spectrum that I would say can't be so difficult to make it possible for the Rent Committee to say: you should do this! And a decent corporation is just gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u113	Yes, I fully agree with you and, of course, there are examples of this being dealt with properly and seriously. I am not aware that the Rent Committee says: I am not in a position to do anything about this. Let me promise you I'm gonna take a good look at that. Mr Ronnes asked what impact the complaints system has on the working stock. The expectation is about 250 more cases per year. It's actually a new instrument, a kind of appeal that you can actually invoke, based on the assumption that the tenant will first try to get out with the landlord. This will lead to a solution in a number of cases. Again, the expectation is therefore 250 extra cases per year, based on estimates. Of course, we're not sure. Then there is the question of working methods. The Rent Committee advises on a voluntary basis. This is about the distinction between regulated and liberalised. I thought it was Mr Nijboer who asked for it in particular. The Rent Committee advises parties on a voluntary basis when it comes to liberalised contracts. That also makes sense, because it results from the principle of contract freedom between tenants and landlords. This means that the tenant and landlord themselves agree which elements they consider decisive for the level of the rental price, for the periodic increase in the rental price etc. This is, of course, different with regulated rental contracts, because that is where the laws and regulations determine the level of the rental price and also for a rent increase. Therefore, it is more within reason to prescribe from the government that disputes are binding in such cases. If there was a need for a body that could make binding rulings in the liberalised segment, it would be much more likely for that segment to go to court. So there is simply a distinction between liberalised and regulated. I see Mr Nijboer walking to the interrupting microphone, so I will consider whether or not the President should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u114	Well, I'm gonna think about that for a second. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u115	Phew, that wasn't so bad. Analytically, I understand all that, but for that tenant it doesn't matter very much. For the tenant it doesn't matter if he hires from a housing corporation or from a private landlord or investor or I don't know. He just needs a house and there aren't enough of them. He sits somewhere and wants to be treated properly and he has a problem. And I think that we should focus our housing market regulation on this: that anyone who needs a home can simply go somewhere. Then I find it very logical to say as a political statement: we have a Rent Commission here and anyone who rents can go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u116	Well, I think there is an essential distinction. I will of course come to that other point of Mr Koerhuis, but there is a real difference between regulated and liberalised. I also think that you should respect that freedom of contract in the liberalised part. We've created a regulated sector, a regulated segment. If you rent in it, it doesn't matter whether you rent from a housing corporation or from a private individual. As far as I am concerned, the laws and regulations that govern them, up to the level of rent and also the increase in rent, also call for a different possibility as far as disputes are concerned than when there is simply a contract, freely concluded, in the liberalised sector. Then there is the possibility, but it is obvious that that would be the judge and not the Rent Committee. Otherwise, we would no longer have a distinction between regulated and liberalised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u117	For clarity: they are two distinct. One concerns regulated debt securities that can be partly owned by housing corporations and partly by other parties, private parties and the other unregulated, say free.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u119	At least from the first, I would say that both should be included. On the second, you can have a political difference of opinion, and we have that. Because I think that in fact all tenants deserve some protection, especially because the power inequality is enormous and that it is not just trade in the housing market. If these tenants are being treated unfairly, they must also be able to go somewhere. Anyway, that's a difference of opinion. I hope that the Minister agrees with me on the first point, namely that it does not matter whether it is a corporation or a landlord in the regulated segment. The VVD is trying to wrangle them out with an amendment. That's not gonna make it, I hope. I do hope that segment has the protection that this law provides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u120	My point was that I thought your question was also mainly about the second. I think that the political difference that Mr Nijboer is indicating is indeed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u121	What I keep hearing from the Minister is that a lot of tenants actually have to go to court, but that is a very big step for a lot of people. I have just mentioned a number of figures, and I would like a response from the Minister. There's an investigation from ThePostOnline. They did that between January 2010 and February 2016. This study shows that in half of all rental contracts for free sector rentals, the rent is actually far too high. They say that a 40% reduction in the rent is possible on average, if you go to the Rent Committee. Do you think all these people should go to court? That's a very big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u122	Let me start by saying that I don't know that investigation. I'd like to promise you that I'm going to look at that, but I can't confirm those figures. I'm gonna have to leave it for your account or for ThePostOnline's. My point is more that there is of course tightness. There's a problem in the rental segment. By the way, we have very little middle rental in the Netherlands anyway. I think we will have to take really big steps to create a better and well-functioning housing market. So, of course, that's part of it. That also has a price uplifting effect. I think we're all aware of that. For those people who feel that something is not right in their rental contract or situation and who are not in the regulated part, the corridor to the court is open if they do not come out in good consultation with the landlord, because that is of course always preferable eventually open. I think that's important, too. So again, I do share your concern and I also see a bottleneck in the housing market, but I do not think the solution is to ask the Rent Commission to deal with the entire rental sector in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u123	That is, of course, a clear answer in principle, but the problem is right, as the Minister clearly points out, that a lot of people are cramped and using that cut to ask for some really crazy high rents and that people really feel like they're in trouble. We argue and continue to advocate the opening up of the Rent Committee, but will the Minister do something extra for these tenants? Because it's just a group that's really tight, that has no choice, and that step to the judge is very big. Then can the Minister do something extra to reduce that step, at least, because it is already such an unequal battle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u124	Yes, but now Mrs Beckerman is challenging me to actually give a full account of the housing market and the middle-rent segment. I believe that we will soon be able to discuss this in much more detail. It is indeed extremely important to take steps in this direction. That can be done by providing more offers. There just needs to be more middle rent on the market. This is complicated in the current market. I look very closely at the municipalities and I also consult with them, because I think that the municipalities are primarily inclined to do the right things here to ensure that this offer is extended. Then there are the people who are in trouble. That's the group Mrs Beckerman's talking about. I do not know if it is one group; I think they are different groups with different problems. You're gonna have to have some kind of customization in that too. The problem of house milkers can play here, but it doesn't have to. So I find it too easy to put it on the same footing. But I do agree with you that it would be good if there were more offers and less price-raising effect on that middle rent. This can sometimes cause people to get in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u125	Then I do not quite understand why the Minister is not prepared to see whether we can treat tenants in the liberalised sector and tenants in the regulated sector equally. If you did, I'd think you'd do something about the price-raising effect. 'Cause then the landlord knows, I'm gonna have trouble with that rental commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u126	Yes. Well, there is, of course, an element in this proposal for new tenants who are in that higher segment, at least on top of the regulated rent. I'd like to talk about that later. Those new tenants can go to the rental committee in the first six months. I wanted to have that debate with Mr Koerhuis for a moment, but perhaps it would be a good idea to include it in the debate. I think that's okay. So these are new tenants. In the beginning, so if they have involved the house and have found that there may be some things not quite as they expected on the basis of the agreement they had made, they can have it checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u127	We do not have that limit of six months in the regulated rental sector either. Then why would we have that border here? I can very well imagine that people only realise later that the rent they pay is not reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u128	Well, the proposal is now six months. It could also be three months or nine months. The proposal is now six months. I think that's reasonable. In that case, tenants have been able to engage and assess the house as well. I think it's okay to draw a line somewhere. Then six months isn't unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u129	I see Mr Koerhuis standing at the interrupting microphone, but I heard from the Minister that she will deal with his point separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u130	Yeah, I'm fine. Mr Ronnes asked why the nature of the complaints was included in the ministerial regulation. I thought it was Mr Ronnes himself who also referred to the letter of amendment. There are the specific complaints mentioned in the law, or at least those that cannot be dealt with. I think that's very clear. What things can't happen? This therefore results from the fact that other types of complaints can be dealt with. Since this is already contained in that letter of amendment, it is not necessary to use a separate procedure for this purpose. The points sometimes get a little mixed up, Mr President. Sorry about that. Mr Kops asked a question about the conduct of the landlord. Which behaviours of the landlord are covered? It may cover all the conduct of the landlord in the context of the rental, of course on the basis of the current lease, except for those conducts which control the access or rejection of the accommodation, default, rental termination or the conclusion of utilities. So this is actually the answer I just gave to Mr Ronnes. Mr President, I wanted to go to the composition of the tenancy committee. Mr Koerhuis was the first to ask a question about this. He actually asked: is the current system too closed and should we move towards greater transparency? At the moment, it is not possible for every expert to apply for membership. In fact, only people from the direct supporters of the umbrella organisations can do that. This proposal will therefore be amended and improved in my view, because we want to go to good Members. So that's gotta be people who know things. The legislative proposal regulates this in a clear appointment procedure, in my view, so that anyone who is expert can also apply. Then, of course, that can also be properly assessed. The board monitors how many members are needed and what knowledge they need to have so that there is a proper composition. It then agrees with the umbrella organisations of the tenants and the landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u131	I'd still like to get back to the behavior. A tenant can go to the Rent Committee because of the behavior of a landlord. But then what's gonna happen? So what's the Rent Commission gonna decide? Rent reduction? In practice, that's pretty much the only thing that comes out. Then what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u132	Of course, that's up to the Rent Commission. That depends on the complaint and on the opinion of the Rent Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u133	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman has asked, quite rightly, whether we are sure that the representatives of the landlords are not in the majority in the new committee. I think that's settled well in the law. Article 39 states that there must be equal representation. So there can be no majority on the side of the landlords. Mrs Van Eijs has asked for independence. She suggested that we might have to evaluate it at some point. Independence and quality, as I have just said, are very important and they are not at stake. There are checks-and-balances in the proposal. Because the Rent Committee is a ZBO, an independent administrative body, it can operate independently of the government and the other stakeholders. There is also a council of advice. That council has no decision-making power, but it does pay attention and can adjust and give advice, as it is in the name. I think Mrs Van Eijs' suggestion to evaluate after a number of years is a good one. Then let's meet for four years. I think that's a good time. I think she herself proposed three or four years. I've had the balanced distribution. I would like to make a few comments on the amounts. I've finished the committee. Finally, I have a few individual questions and the amendments. Mr Koerhuis asked what the threshold of €3 is based on. The current Article 9 of the Implementing Law is already based on that threshold of €3. For disputes about rent reduction, temporary rent reduction in case of defects and rent increase after home improvement, this is connected. It is therefore a reference to an existing article of law, Article 9, third and fourth paragraphs of the Implementing Law rental prices. It makes sense to take that over when it comes to accessing the Rent Committee. That is the answer to his question. It would therefore not be logical, as I say in the direction of Mrs Beckerman, to waive that threshold. You have to stop too small things from happening. The expertise of the Rent Committee is intended for disputes that the tenant and the landlord cannot resolve themselves. I am therefore in favour of using that threshold. We've been talking about the cottage milkers for a while. I'm not gonna repeat that. Mrs Van Eijs asked if I could give a feedback on what is going on with the municipalities and the cottage milkers. I have just said that we must tackle them and that we must do so very often at the level of the municipalities. I've received a letter from the collected student cities about that. This leads to conversations with the municipalities. I would like to say that I will inform you about this in the spring, not only about the discussions and the outcome of those talks, but also about the inventory of the opportunities we see together to tackle this type of practice, which of course we do not want. Mr Kops asked for late maintenance. I hope I have dealt with that sufficiently. The CDA asked whether there was a causal link between the introduction of the income-dependent rent increase and the increase in the number of disputes and whether the Rent Committee could regain control over them. Experience has shown that the introduction of new policies often leads to an increase in cases. But that's usually a temporary increase. Over time, that actually normalizes again. That's also because tenants and landlords have to get used to a new situation. In addition, we must provide information so that tenants are also aware of it. Mrs Van Eijs asked about the clarity of the statements of the Rent Committee. There's a public register of the Rent Commission. That complies with the legal requirements we impose on it. I know that the Rent Committee itself is also working to improve that public register. They provide for an improvement in their accessibility for next year. Finally, Mrs Voortman's question: what are the experiences so far with the pilots on mediation? It's very good that this is already happening. This has indeed given an insight into the working methods, the possibilities and the possibilities in the context of this new task of the Rent Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u135	I think I hear that the Rent Committee itself is also looking at the accessibility of its statements. I was wondering if the Minister could convey that the standards for open data should also be taken into account, so that third parties, such as the House Union, can use them to make this even more accessible to lay people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u136	That seems to me to be a very good point. I know the Rent Committee is listening in now, so I think the transfer has already taken place. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the amendments. That's five, I think, if I counted correctly. The first amendment is that in part No. 13 of Mr Beckerman. You will not be surprised that I am betraying this amendment. That actually follows from our discussion of just now. As far as I'm concerned, we really shouldn't want that. That would actually be the end of the system as we know it now, with regulated versus non-regulated. I'm not in favour of that. Then there is the amendment to item No. 15. I see three proposers among them, with Mrs Van Eijs as the first proposer. This amendment has two parts. The first part looks at the number of times a landlord has been unsuccessful and the way in which. It says here that it could be service costs, rent increase, etc. Actually, they're asking for differentiated fees. That is both complicated and it does not do justice to the fact that the rules are sometimes very complicated, as we have just discussed. So not all mistakes are conscious mistakes. I think that we are not doing enough justice to the complexity of the rules and therefore also to the fact that landlords can simply go wrong without them actually wanting to do so. On that part of the amendment, I would say that I would rather not. Of course, that's not official advice. With regard to the second part, I think there is room for that. I would suggest to the authors that this should not be done in the case of amendment but in the case of motion. Because if you make a motion from that second part, I can work it out and I can fill it out at AMvB. That goes through the front page procedure and then you can judge whether I have done it properly, in accordance with the wishes expressed here. So, in fact, my suggestion would be to waive the amendment in its present form. I find the first part too complicated, so I really don't. I am prepared to do the second part, but that is not necessary in the case of amendment. I would prefer to see that in the form of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u137	I understand the argument and I am pleased that the Minister is opening up to settle what we want to do. I have one enlightening question. If I understood correctly, it is now settled in the law that it goes up after the fourth time. Those fees will then become cost-covering. If I were to say in a motion that it should be in the AMvB again after the second time, how is that compatible with that? That is more of a technical question, so perhaps the Minister could come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u138	Let me agree that I'll find out very precisely for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u139	That will come in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u140	I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on That is what we have just discussed in detail. One year is the proposal, but I can tell you very well in the Chamber that you think all this is too short. I have argued that five years is a very long time and that this could really lead to problems, but that a take-up to, for example, three years should be reasonable. Finally. No, I'm sorry, there are two more amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u141	Yes, the amendment to item No. 17 and the amendment to item No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u142	The amendment in part No. I believe that 17 of Mr Koerhuis has also been the subject of the debate just now. Mr Koerhuis will therefore not be surprised that I also reject this amendment. I think it is very reasonable for this group to say: create the possibility of that review, but only in the first six months. This will not lead to a large-scale, in his view, withdrawal from the middle rental segment, because if it meets the conditions and the Rent Commission comes to that conclusion, then it apparently does not belong in that segment. So I really think that there is a substantive reasoning underneath that. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u143	In this coalition agreement, the four parties join forces and in Amsterdam, the VVD and D66 move together to create a larger middle rental sector. Middle rentals are properties with a rent of more than €711, as defined in the AMvB about middle rental, which has recently been adopted. Would the Minister comment on my argument that the present proposal for a directive on the return of middle-rental housing to the social sector, and that the middle-rental sector, including Amsterdam, will therefore be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u144	We have just noted in the debate, I think, that the middle-rent segment needs to grow and that it requires a lot more than this part. Mr Koerhuis is therefore afraid of an assessment in a number of cases where middle-rental housing falls short of the social stock, but I do not think this at all outweighs the existing need for more middle-rental housing. I also know from my past in Amsterdam, but it also plays in other cities in the Netherlands, which will also have to be done by simply increasing the offer and by inventing a system, think of agreements laid down in zoning plans, in land use plans or in whatever form that ensures that the middle rent also stays middle rent. With others in this Chamber, I am once again experiencing the fear that rents will rise enormously. Mr Koerhuis is afraid of a reduction in some cases. I would say: if there is a reduction, it is because the Rent Committee has assessed whether a particular property is in line with the existing rules. I don't expect that to happen on a very large scale. Again, the answer to that is more center rentals realize.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u145	That last thing, the one about realizing middle rentals, we share. Due to the change in the law that you are proposing here, the Rent Committee will soon be able to withdraw to the social rental sector. You agree with me that we need to create a larger offer for middle-rent housing. If the Rent Commission can counter that later, then we should not blame the Rent Commission for that, but ourselves, if we let this law go through like this. You yourself say that every step of the way helps. This step would also help to create more middle rental homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u146	Theoretically, Mr Koerhuis is right about that. But at the same time, suppose the rent is too high, perhaps also under pressure from the situation on the housing market. The tenant enters the house and finds that the area and facilities etc. are inadequate and he therefore goes to the Rent Committee. Next, the Rent Committee agrees with the tenant. Yeah, well, then it's only fair that that possibility exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u147	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u148	I conclude here that the Minister considers it only reasonable that such a middle-rental dwelling, for example in Amsterdam, should be withdrawn in the social rental sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u149	No, I'm in favour of a lot of middle rentals, but not at any price. I think it is reasonable for this proposal to open up to new tenants in the first six months of moving in. I am glad that Mr Koerhuis and I have discussed it well, but I note that this leads us to disagree. I therefore advise against his amendment on that point. Finally, Mr Ronnes's amendment to item No. 18. Mr Ronnes must forgive me for saying that this is a complicated amendment. The Committee notes that tenants of housing above the liberalisation limit who are owned by a corporation may also go to the Rent Committee. That leads to a problem. I know, by the way, that my predecessor Mr Blok has said that he wants to look at this. I think he did. At least we did that at the Ministry. But that leads to the observation that there is a problem with equality of law. I get the point. I am prepared to discuss this with municipalities and housing corporations, but I do not recommend the amendment. So I think it is the wrong way of achieving the objective, which I do understand and which I want to try to achieve through the discussions with the municipalities and housing corporations, but I do not want to do it in this way and not through the amendment because of the argument of legal inequality. I therefore reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u150	This is kind of weird in itself. Your predecessor, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has expressly said that I agree that the position of a housing corporation in the liberalised part can be looked at in a more nuanced way. It is therefore very strange that I now hear from the Minister that it seems that this cannot be looked at in a nuanced manner. I wonder why the minister who stands here says that she does not see that nuance. What's the background to this being different at one time than it was a year ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mr Ronnes is quite right, of course, that it does not really matter who the Chamber is against, but as I understand it, Minister Blok said he wanted to look at it at the time. Maybe he said he wanted to take a nuanced look at it. It could be. But that assessment leads me to say now: as you propose in the amendment, the legal inequality between corporations on the one hand and other landlords on the other hand results. I think that we should not want to do that with each other, but that we may be able to achieve the goal by talking to municipalities and housing corporations about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u152	Finally, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u153	I can tell we're not getting closer. I'm gonna go check on how I'm gonna handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u154	You'll have until next Tuesday. Mr. Koerhuis, you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u155	I would like to think along with Mr Ronnes on this point. I heard the Minister say that we should not create legal inequality between housing corporations and private landlords, but I do not hear her say that housing corporations, which receive a lot of state aid, can ask for something extra back. Could the Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u156	We have just found that the housing corporations are the majority of the contribution to the new financing method of the Rent Committee. Let us note that we are asking them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u157	Thank you. We'll go to the second term on the side of the Chamber. Are you ready, Mr. Koerhuis? Yeah? Then I give you the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers to the questions put by the Chamber in the debate. We differ strongly in this Chamber about how the housing market works, but I think the ultimate goal we all want to achieve is the same: a housing market where tenants can live and live as nice, good and cheap as possible. In my first term I have already mentioned a number of points of the law that I like, such as shifting the cost of using the Rent Committee from the hardworking Dutchman to those who actually use it, the tenants and the landlords. In my term, however, I have also mentioned a number of possible improvements. For example, I would like to see, together with D66 and the CDA, cottage milkers be dealt with before and it will be easier to deal with them. Where the PVV is particularly harsh, the VVD prefers to provide an approach that really works. I hope that these amendments will receive broad support in the Chamber. Then my proposal to keep middle-rental housing available for middle-income people. Here too, I think our goal is the same: we all want everyone to find a good, affordable home, including in the city. But you have to think for yourself what a place like this is worth. I understand very well that for those who can enforce a lower rent up to six months after signing the lease, that feels very fair, but for all those other middle-income people who also want to rent a middle-rental house, it is not just. It is not just for teachers, nurses, agents, nor for families, including city families. First of all, the solution for all these people is: building, building, building. But until then, I'd like to leave those middle-rental homes in middle-rental homes and not move into the social housing sector. It shouldn't be the case that you trump other tenants by accepting a rental price and then forcing a lower rental price. We are here in the House of Representatives with the entire coalition, with D66 and the CDA but also with the Christian Union, to increase the middle rental sector. Specifically in Amsterdam we do this with D66. There the gentlemen Van der Burg and Van Dantzig gather together to increase the offer of middle rentals. My amendment, my proposal, will help. I say to the SP and the Labour Party: I agree with you that this should not lead to a bid of up to €1,500 or €2,000. That's not middle rent anymore. Therefore, an AMvB, a general measure of governance, was adopted which defines this middle rent, allowing the municipality to set a maximum amount. So we make the housing market slightly healthier. This is how we make sure everyone can find a good and affordable house. Finally. The Minister replied to two questions from me. The first question was where the threshold of €3 came from. I understand that's from a law of 2009. I also understand that we cannot get an analysis of this €3 here and now, but can the Minister promise that we will look at this €3 for the submission of the national budget and, if necessary, index it in relation to 2009? Secondly, I asked questions about the €2,22 that a landlord will have to pay per house per year. I'm in favour of low charges, including landlords. Can the Minister promise to see this €2,22 in the light of the higher and earlier cost-covering rates that we hope to achieve here together and to see what this €2,22 will do for the 2019 rich budget and how that amount can best be reduced? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u159	This is the second term. You will have the opportunity to respond if necessary, but not to have the debate again. I'd like to give you that. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u160	Okay, then I'll just try it at once, and I'll meet you. I really don't understand. You say twice: I want people to be able to live affordable. Then you call out: it is unjust for people who pay too much for a house that you want to be able to live in, to get their rights. I really don't understand. What's unjust now? Is it unfair that the market is asking for far too high prices for houses for which you cannot actually ask? Or is it unfair for people to seek their right to an affordable house as you wish? What's unjust?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u161	Mrs Beckerman, I understand very well. You're going for a bigger social rental business. You think that's fair. I'm going for a bigger middle-rent business. In order to achieve this, I have just said it to the Minister, one step at a time, we need to ensure that middle-rental housing is not withdrawn from the social rental segment here too. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u162	Mrs. Beckerman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u163	So middle rent simply means to you that people are going to pay too much for too little quality because you first chased them out of the social rental sector. I'm trying to make your world a little simpler. Wouldn't it be much simpler if that police officer or that teacher could just get back into the social rent and we put our full bets on it? Then people can rent cheaply and they can get their rights again if they are exploited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u164	Mrs. Beckerman, it's very simple. You're going for a bigger social rental business, I'm going for a bigger middle-rent business. That is what we agreed in this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u165	Mr. Chairman. I don't really know whether I'm going to interrupt or whether it's more of a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u166	Throw it in the group, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u167	I hear Mr Koerhuis now. Maybe we can do something for him, because he's making so much nonsense here! Should we call a doctor or something? It's just gonna be really embarrassing. To be honest, I was hoping that I wouldn't have to stand up for him anymore, but there he comes back to build, build, build. Every time he says it, it gets more embarrassing. Then he dares to say: the VVD comes with solutions that work. Mr Koerhuis, where have you been in the VVD cabinet in recent years? You've caused the housing shortage we're dealing with right now. Where were you? Put your hand in your own bosom. You are not the solution, Mr Koerhuis, you are part of the problem! Why don't you just admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u168	I don't really hear a question. I do not hear a point of order either. I would like to say that the Netherlands has come out of the crisis, the housing market has come out of the crisis and let us now ensure that we do indeed build, build, build so that everyone can find their own house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u169	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr. Chairman. It's not gonna get any better. Every time Mr Koerhuis says something, it gets worse and worse. I would really recommend that he prepare it a little better for the next debate, including that second period, rather than reading something of a piece of paper that has just been introduced. Make a little more effort!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u172	I am still trying to understand the substantive reasons Mr Koerhuis has for a house that is regulated by law not to cost more than €711... It is just the law. The Rent Committee does not make a law, it simply applies the law that we have established here. What is the good of asking for €1,000 or €1,100 for that house? Will you explain that to me again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u173	Very briefly, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u174	We make that law here and now, so that the Rent Commission can test. What I'm suggesting is that what by law are middle-rent homes, homes above €711, medium-rent homes remain, rental homes for middle-income people. We have a screaming lack of that. The minister just said it. I keep saying it: the government sees this, I refer to the coalition agreement; in Amsterdam we move together; more middle-rent homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u175	It's the other way around. We have defined it in the law: these are social housing, these are the qualities that meet them. You don't get a rent allowance anymore above a certain limit, 'cause we're gonna stop somewhere. Mr Koerhuis simply says: with everything you ask up there, it is no longer a social rental house, and look at it. That's why people are so angry. One reacts a little differently than the other; we're like people here in the Chamber. But that's really kicking our entire social housing out in the middle of an overcrowded housing market. And then the title 'hup huisjesmelker' for this amendment is really true. It was a little silly of me at first, but then that's really the core of what you're doing. You're turning it all upside down. You make it completely clear and you encourage everyone to ask for more than €711 rent; and then they are off everything. That's actually just a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u176	I'm not turning it upside down at all. I believe that there is a need to build and I believe that social housing should also be built, as should middle-rental housing and residential housing. I'm not gonna turn it upside down. I want as much as possible to be built. The priority is middle-rental housing. That is what the coalition agreement says; that is what we agreed in the coalition agreement. Step by step: in construction, with the AMvB middle rental that has been hired and now here. We decide what the Rent Committee assesses; that is what we are dealing with here. Then you can yell "that's the law," and "that's there and there," but no, that's right here. Here we now decide what the Rent Committee will assess. Here we decide whether we allow the Rent Commission to allow middle rental homes to be withdrawn into the social rental sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u177	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SP had hoped that precisely the law on the Rent Committee would be a good opportunity to tackle house milkers extra. Too high rent is a problem that many people face. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. We hope, of course, for the support of the Chamber. We find what the Minister has promised to do very lean. What we had also hoped very much was that we could have given the Rent Committee a little more power to really tackle problems, so that it would not only give people rent reductions. That is of course a good thing, but we had hoped that we would also give the Rent Committee real opportunities to really solve problems such as fungi and late maintenance that sometimes makes people really sick. 'Cause the step to the judge is big for a lot of people. And that is precisely why we believe that the Rent Committee should be so low-threshold and have more opportunities to prevent and tackle abuses, which are right because the market is tight. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tenants with temporary leases enjoy less rent protection than tenants in the social sector;]] [[Whereas several temporary leases are subject to different rules in the Rent Commission which allow tenants with a two-year lease contract to go to the Rent Commission only in the first six months and tenants with a short-term contract cannot go to the Rent Commission at all;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how rent protection through the Rent Commission for tenants with a temporary lease can be equalized and improved, and to forward the results to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34652-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u179	Then my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Rent Commission settles approximately 11,000 disputes annually;]] [[Whereas a ruling by the Rent Committee does not have automatic consequences;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all the rulings of the Rent Committee follow the consequences, e.g. an obligation to (large) maintenance, and to submit these consequences to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Voortman and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34652-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u181	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. Thanks also to Mr Koerhuis. I'll come back on the landlord's contribution. Yeah, let's say it gets passed on to the tenants. The minister said it would be a relatively small amount, but at a time when rents have only gone up, at a time when people can no longer pay the bills, every penny rent increase is too much. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that landlords pass on all or part of the landlord's tax to tenants, and that in practice the landlord's tax is rather a tenant's tax;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the landlord's contribution in favour of the Rent Commission will not be passed on to the tenants in any way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34652-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u183	Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u184	Mr Koerhuis wishes to ask a question about the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u185	Yes, a factual question to Mr Kops. I have heard him call out a number of times now, yes, and say that landlord charges and landlord fees are passed on to tenants. It's not landlords who have to pay them, but mainly corporations. How much profit do corporations actually make? Do you know that, Mr. Kops?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u186	A lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u187	My question was, how much?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u188	They've got billions in cash. They have enough cash, the landlords, the corporations. They can do that all by themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u189	How many billions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u190	Mr. Chairman. I assume Mr Koerhuis knows the answer himself. Is that right? Yeah, I can see that's true. That shows once again that Mr Koerhuis is only asking this question for the stage, not for a substantive answer. So he's asking a question he already knows the answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u191	Finally, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u192	Corporates make 5.5 billion euros a profit. You asked me if I was prepared for the debates; hence my question. Corporates are therefore making 5.5 billion euros a profit. Then how can you say that if they have to pay a cup of coffee to landlord's fees per year, they're going to pass on to tenants? Isn't it possible to make that out of the 5.5 billion euros profit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u193	See, that's exactly the VVD: he's talking about a cup of coffee. That's right, it's very derogatory. If you had listened more carefully, you would have heard me say that every penny counts. We're clear. We simply do not want the landlord's contribution to be passed on to the tenants in any way. What's unclear about that? Look, now Mr Koerhuis is sitting, because now he doesn't know all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u194	Please continue. Don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u195	Better prepare anyway, I'd say. It's not gonna get any better. Okay, Mr. Chairman. I was gonna finish up. It is, of course, strange that in a dispute the Rent Committee can decide on a rent reduction or a temporary rent reduction, but cannot decide on the solution of the real problem, for example late maintenance, if this is the case. That is why I am pleased to have co-signed Mrs Beckerman's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u196	So you had one motion? Thank you. I call Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u197	Mr. Chairman. It took a little longer, because the Minister suggested that we turn our amendment into a motion and I made a last-minute attempt to do so. We thank the Minister for his reply and, in general, for the good discussion in the Chamber. Our amendment deals with the number of infringements within a certain period of time that should be taken into account for the collection of fees. We put that on five years. We will adopt the suggestion to change that in three years. That amendment therefore still needs to be amended. To be sure, I shall also table a motion on our amendment to allow that fee to be covered earlier. For that, I now submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that cost-covering fees have a deterrent effect;]] [[noting that fees lower than covering costs ensure that bona fide landlords pay for the miscarriages of house milkers;]] [[does not ask the government, as included in the bill, from the fourth time a landlord has been unsuccessful in calculating cost-covering fees, but to do so from the third time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Eijs and Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34652-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u198	I would also like to thank the Minister for her commitment to look at how this new method of appointment is developing after four years. I'm very happy about that. Perhaps the Minister could also say a little more about our motion on house milkers. I'm glad to hear that there are conversations going on, or that they're going on with it. Perhaps the Minister could better specify what "spring" is, because that could be May and June. We are very curious about that and we would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u199	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Three more cases. One, what happens after a verdict, and can you easily go to court? I have also seen examples of this in Groningen. Even if someone is completely right after three or four years, he still has nothing. And if you really have problems with mold or draft or poor maintenance, then it takes far too long. That's what the Rent Commission is so good for, but if there's no material action, it's no good at all, not even for rent reduction. You can't go anywhere either. Waiting lists are a long time. The Minister would come back to that. We have also tabled a motion together with GroenLinks, PVV and SP. We really need to do something with that, and perhaps not just with this law and further on with the debate on housing. This isn't just resolved with a motion. Mr. Chairman. The second point. I'm a little disappointed. We, the minister and at least the PvdA, as well as other parties, have a different view of the housing market when it comes to where to go as a tenant. It is really very common, even in consumer matters, that there is some sort of arbitration committee that anyone can go to, whether it is regulated social rent or not. I think that Rent Committee is perfectly suited for that. I don't know why you couldn't go there, especially when it comes to the biggest abuses, to house milkers and to private organizations. But that is what we have debated and disagreed on. There is an amendment and we shall see how the House votes on it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, my third point. During such a debate, you always get a little more control over how the law works. I was wondering if it would be reasonable to have to make your objections known within six months. Mr Koerhuis wants to get rid of it, but it is clear that no one agrees with him. Actually, I find six months fast. That is why I have just tabled an amendment to make it a year. People have just moved and have to start all sorts of procedures. Probably the landlord has to get in touch first. He'll have to respond. Then there's a term, with a reminder. So six months is fast. I want to extend that term to a year. I have tabled an amendment to that effect, and I am still waiting for the Minister's response to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u201	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with some of the answers given by the Minister. On the income-dependent rent increase in relation to the number of disputes, she says that there is a problem of introduction when new policies are introduced. You see peaks at the beginning and later this is neutralized. I would ask the Minister to keep a close eye on this and, if necessary, to see if any practical adjustments can be made in this respect. Then you don't burden a Rent Commission unnecessarily with things that are just facts. A second point is the question of the pending procedure. The Minister made me aware that the letter of amendment contains a number of additional policies which partly resolve my question. However, it also indicated that it would come forward with a pending procedure for the AMvB. I would like to be confirmed that this is really a front-end procedure. A third point concerns financing and the relationship between corporations and the private sector. The minister mentioned a percentage of 90 or 95. The fair question to the Minister is whether she thinks it is a real ratio that 90% to 95% of the costs are deposited with the corporations. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the amendment we have tabled. During a debate, I spoke explicitly about this proposal with Minister Blok at the time. He indicated that it was better to settle this with the current legislation for the Rent Committee. On that basis, we have made this amendment. I am therefore very surprised that suddenly the argument of legal inequality comes to the fore, while the aim of the amendment is clearly clear. I do have the question, however, as to whether legal inequality is an opinion or a legal fact. I'm gonna take a good look at that in the next few days. I'm gonna see what I'm gonna do with the amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u203	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Finally, Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u204	Thank you, Mr President. One point raised both in the introduction and in the reaction of the cabinet was the difference in access to the Rent Commission between tenants in the liberalised sector and tenants who rent in the regulated sector. Mrs Beckerman has tabled an amendment on this subject, which has been co-signed by GroenLinks. The Minister indicated: people who rent in the liberalised sector still have six months in which they can go to the Rent Commission when it comes to initial hire. The point is that you still make a difference. The Minister's reaction also showed that the six-month limit is arbitrary, because she said at one point that it could also be three or six months. In addition, we find it unfair compared to the access to the Rent Committee for tenants in the regulated sector. We therefore believe that Mr Nijboer's amendment to extend this deadline is a good step. We shall therefore support that amendment as well. We find the higher contribution for landlords a wrong development, anyway, because landlords have to pay a larger share of what was first paid by the government, but also because of independence. The larger the share that landlords pay, the greater the influence. That is at the expense of independence, as far as we are concerned. Finally. We have co-signed a number of motions, which have just been explained by Mrs Beckerman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u205	Thank you, Mrs Voortman. Can the Minister respond immediately? That's the case. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u206	Thank you, Mr President, if it is true that I have received four motions and one new amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u207	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u208	I thank everyone for this afternoon's contribution. I look forward to continuing the debate we will have on the housing market as a whole. I see parties standing up for the social rent and the middle rent. Buying is still a little under-exposed. It is, of course, about the whole housing market and that it can function properly. Of course, that was not a reproach to anyone in this Chamber. A well-functioning housing market is also served by this law; I am convinced of that. With this law, the Rent Committee will be given new tasks and new funding, a more stable funding for the future. I can see support for that. Let me start with a few questions. Mr Koerhuis asked whether in the future, knowing that it will be based on a law, we can see if there is reason to index the threshold of €3 or otherwise look at it. I would suggest to Mr Koerhuis that we do so in the next year's budget. We need some experience with it, so that it is based on something, but I would like to make this commitment. His second question was about that €2.22. I argued in my first term that there is a form of post-calculation in the system. I tell him not to have too high expectations of this, because in the system the fee plays a somewhat minor role in relation to the contribution of the landlords. But the promise stands. If it is possible and there are so many fees coming in, it could lead to a reduction in the postcalculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u209	A short response or question, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u210	A quick question indeed. Thank you for those two commitments. The following is more specific about the €3 threshold. I was talking about the indexing from the year 2009, because I understood that it comes from a law of 2009. So we shouldn't index that €3 from this year on, but we would like to start from 2009, because it comes out of that law after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u211	It's from that law; he's absolutely right about that. My suggestion was to work with this amount for a year and see what that will bring. If we then come up with our findings, Mr Koerhuis is of course free, if necessary, to look at when the indexation should start. I must therefore take a very close look at how it was agreed in that law at the time. But that is the moment, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u212	Finally, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u213	And not just Mr Koerhuis, but I would like to join with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u214	Sure, I couldn't agree more. We'll have to look at that together. But we need to take some time to see what's going on. I can confirm to Mr Ronnes that the veil he asked for will be there. He also asked about the balance between the contribution of the housing corporations and the private landlords. In any case, the suggestion he made was that a lot of housing companies would be asked for. I agree with him, but at the same time I also think that this reflects the large share of housing corporations' rent stock in social rents. So it is actually a reflection of the actual situation. The small private landlords with less than 50 homes, which are therefore not used for the landlord's tax, are not included. At that point, I'll meet him in his analysis. That is a small advantage for them, one might say, and for the housing corporations, which often have much larger stocks, a small disadvantage. But I do not find it unreasonable and unfair to ask them to do so. Finally, his last comment. He expressed his disappointment at the fact that he had a different expectation on the basis of what my predecessor had said about the amendment he tabled. At least, he had a different expectation of that. We do not disagree at all on the purpose. I am also very pleased that Mr Ronnes is calling for attention to be paid to this. The only thing I am saying, because I agree with Mr Ronnes's aim, is to give me the opportunity and space to talk to municipalities and housing companies about how to deal with this, so as not to create a situation of legal inequality. Then I come to the motions and amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u215	Before you go any further, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u216	There's still a question with me. At the time, the Minister expressly expressed his agreement with the fact that you can separate the private market from the corporations and the liberalised sector, i.e. above the border. At the time, it was expressly stated by the Minister, who is also on paper, that he wants to incorporate it into that line in the new law that is going to be sent to the Chamber. We don't really see it very well. Now in one go, the injustice of justice comes around the corner. Does this mean that, when the previous letter was sent to the Chamber and in the debate I had with Blok, the Minister at the time considered that it was not unlawful?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u217	I will look at it very carefully and have it looked at again, because I do think we should be careful. If my predecessor has said it in a certain way, it is important to me too. But once again, as I look at it now and on the basis of the way I got it, the Minister has expressed his goodwill to see what the possibilities are and has led me to say now that I would fear legal inequality. I didn't mean to be inconsistent. But since Mr Ronnes is now asking very strongly for this for the second time, I will pay close attention and have a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u218	Mr Ronnes, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u219	I thank the Minister for the commitment. Is it possible for us to get a response to this by letter before the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u220	Yes, I'd like to tell Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u221	Let's move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u222	The motions. The first motion-Beckerman c.s., in part No. 20, also signed by Mr Nijboer and Mrs Voortman, asks the government to examine whether rent protection can be put on the same footing and improved through the Rent Committee for tenants. This is a research motion. I think you should always try to be generous when it comes to research. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The second motion, also by Mrs Beckerman, to item No. 21, I think it's a different order. We have just talked about what the Rent Committee can and cannot do in such cases. We have just talked about what the Rent Committee can and cannot do in such cases, when it comes to maintenance. In the end, of course, the Rent Committee has one important instrument, namely the possibility of reducing the rent. That's a hell of a stick behind the door, aside from that judge. So I just wanted to add that to the reasoning of just now. What is being asked in this motion, I think, is going too far. I'm dissuading the motion. Then there is Mr Kops' motion for a resolution. 22. I am asked for the guarantee that the rental fee, which in itself is relatively low, will not be passed on to the tenants. I just argued that I think tenants are well protected. That's in the maximation of the regular rent increase. That's why I don't think this motion is necessary and I dissuade her. I come to Mrs Van Eijs' motion on item No. 23. I could suggest to Mrs Van Eijs that I take over the motion unless she does not appreciate it at all. I shall, of course, leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u223	Let me look around and see if Mrs. Van Eijs and the rest of the Chamber will be okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u224	I think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u225	Does anyone object to the adoption of the motion by Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Koerhuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u226	I co-signed the motion and would have liked to add a sentence about the lower landlord's contribution to the motion. The Minister has promised that this will be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u227	So you actually want to change the motion? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u228	The motion is written in one minute. I would have liked this point to be included. But with the Minister's promise that she will look at that lower landlord's contribution, I am happy that the motion will be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u229	The Van Eijs/Koerhuis motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u230	So it doesn't change anything about the motion. Finally, the amendment tabled by Mr Nijboer, inspired by the debate. He wants the initial rental to be tested within a year and not within six months at the Rent Committee. I notice there's a party that doesn't want it at all. Mr Nijboer considers six months too short and prefers a year. I have just argued that I think it is a good thing that the possibility is offered in the law. When drawing a line, to some extent you can only judge whether the time limit is reasonable. I think six months is reasonable and long enough. And I'm not in favour of stretching it to a year. That is why I reject Mr Nijboer's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u231	I listened very carefully to the Minister. In her answer she said: it could be three months, it could be six months, it could be nine months. She said so herself. I am also quite prepared to take the deadline to nine months if the Minister considers that reasonable. Let's be, you set a deadline and whether it's more or less one month is to some extent arbitrary. But I find six months really short, because of course a tenant has to go to the landlord first. It needs a reaction time and may not respond. Maybe he just moved out. Then it's just pretty limited in time. If the Minister thinks that nine months is reasonable, I'm quite prepared to sit on that. Again, six months I find really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u232	I understand that, and I also said what I said. You have to set a time limit that should be reasonable. I think the proposal contained in the law, those six months, is reasonable. But once again, a little more or a little less could also. This amendment, which goes to one year, I really think is too much. If Mr Nijboer can convince a majority in parliament that nine months is better, I can see that, but for the time being I support my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u233	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u234	It always matters. I see that the VVD is already running forward, because it wants to get rid of this. He's just putting a little pressure on me, and I'm gonna let him. If I listen to the Minister carefully, nine months doesn't sound too unreasonable to her. In that case, she will hear what the Chamber thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u235	I have indeed said that I await the opinion of the Chamber, but I can well defend that it lasts six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u236	Mr. Nijboer already referred to it: in order to leave middle-rental housing really middle-rental housing, I think that period should go to zero. When I hear the Minister say "three to nine months," I find it interesting to hear a reflection on the three months. I understand Mr. Nijboer. He likes to hear a reflection in nine months; I like to hear it in three, preferably zero. That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u237	This seems to be an opening by Mr Koerhuis to be convinced of the usefulness of this being incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u238	You're really a favorite today, I noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u239	My reflection in three months would be that it could be done on its own, but that you're putting a lot of pressure on people with that. I know that if you're moving, you really need a little time to take care of everything at all. So it's gonna take you a while to do this. So I think it's really on the short side. Again, I think six months is reasonable and fair. I really don't have any more to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u240	Thank you. I see you sighing, Mr. Koerhuis. You may say one last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u241	As long as I have the last word, it was a reflection on what Mr Nijboer said. I will of course stand for the middle-rent industry, and I hope we are not going to withdraw middle-rent homes in the social housing sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u242	Would the Minister like to say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u243	No. I do think that Mr Koerhuis is very consistent in this debate on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u244	Thank you. Then you'll have the last word. This brings us to the end of this debate. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-24-tweedekamer-6.u245	We will be voting on the legislative proposal and the amendments and motions tabled next Tuesday.
