ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, we will go to Mrs van den Hul for her question to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation on the threat of a halt to the agreement on fire and building safety in Bangladesh. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. On April 24, 2013, the world was shocked by the biggest industrial disaster ever: the collapse of the textile factory Rana Plaza in Bangladesh. It cost more than a thousand textile workers their lives and 2,500 people were injured. Men and especially women who were making our clothes. And the worst part was this disaster could have been prevented. Almost 200 clothing companies therefore decided to join in the Bangladesh Agreement on fire and building safety. This agreement, to which the Netherlands contributed, both diplomaticly and financially, through the training of labour inspectors, millions of euros, will be deported on 30 November by a lawsuit brought by a manufacturer. That is a very worrying situation, because the government of Bangladesh is far from having its own labour inspectorate in place. Millions of people in unsafe factories are still working on our clothing. What is the Minister going to do to prevent the Bangladesh agreement from having to stop? Is it already in discussion with both the Government of Bangladesh and its European colleagues? What's the plan "B" if the agreement is to be deported anyway? Does she agree that economic sanctions should then be imposed, not least because Bangladesh is already failing to comply with the current agreements on labour improvement and trade union freedom? Does the Minister agree with us that all Dutch and European companies doing business with Bangladesh should express themselves in the strongest possible terms and is she prepared to address them, whether or not through its European colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I have indeed taken note of the very worrying developments surrounding the Bangladesh security agreement. We can see that the agreement is extremely important. It provides a framework, it standards and there are clear expectations and agreements that must be respected. What are we going to do right now to ensure that our own concerns are transferred to the highest level? We support the partners in the agreement. We also want to work at the political level in Bangladesh. I will make a number of arrangements myself to ensure that the speedy completion of the job is achieved. The agreement partners themselves have put on the table a compromise that seems workable and which sets the deadline for 2020, with further strengthening in the interim period and a phasing-out schedule. That was set up by the agreement partners themselves. We can agree with that, but with a number of big questions. Of course, we want to guarantee the quality and prevent the terrible work situations that caused the Rana Plazaram at the time. The second is that tomorrow there will be a joint letter stating all the concerns. We support them, too. We will continue to look with partners at how, if necessary, pronunciation support can be arranged diplomatically, but also at the public level. The question of sanctions does not seem to me to be on the agenda, because we are still in consultation. Sanctions are also a broad concept. I think we should see what consequences we can make, in a positive way or otherwise, should the agreement be terminated unexpectedly on 1 November this year. We believe that the situation does not permit this. There's really no room for that. That is why we will now speed up our efforts. Then there is the last point that may be important. In addition to the joint letter, I will include this case in the EU context. After all, we talk about sustainability, fair pay and working conditions everywhere. This is a classic example of how we should, of course, pursue this ourselves and make sure. So we will do everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. I am glad to hear that the Minister shares our concerns and that she herself picks up that ball and talks about it in Bangladesh, but the ambition cannot be high enough in this regard. As long as the workers in Bangladesh who make your and my clothes are not sure of safe factories, we have work to do. That is why I would like to emphasise once again that companies are certainly in a position to do so. Fortunately, some of them take on that responsibility, but we still see companies in the textile industry that do not take that responsibility. We have here in the Netherlands the imvo-covenant textiles in which the minister himself is party. I would therefore ask her, in that capacity, to appeal to the Dutch affiliated companies as well. In Germany, a letter has now been sent from the covenant. It would be very good if this were to happen from the Netherlands as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	I can promise. Not the fact that the letter comes from the covenant, but I will address the co-signators of the covenant. However, I would like to stress that every programme should also be phased out at some point and that Bangladesh's government should also take more responsibility. We therefore want to support them in the construction of the labour inspectorate in all public services. They must take responsibility and commit themselves to building a safe working environment in large workplaces. Then there is the other point that needs to be highlighted, returning to what the consequences should be if Bangladesh did not want to stick to the deadline of 30 November. Bangladesh, of course, is now also a host country for a large number of Rohingya refugees. There is a great deal of demand from Bangladesh at many levels. We are also always in contact with Bangladesh to ensure security and stability for Rohingya refugees. So we have to bring a whole package, but this is a very urgent priority for this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	We have seen that, unfortunately, the textile workers in Bangladesh cannot always count on their government. That is why I hope they can count on the support of this Minister. In any case, I would like to ask the Minister to say that we will receive an update on the situation and the steps that have been taken in the meantime in the European context for the next RBZ/Trade scheduled after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	That's what the Minister says. Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I see you at the interrupting microphone, Mrs Van Brenk, but Mr Van Rooijen has made up all the possibilities for asking questions. That's Mr. Van Rooijen again, isn't it? I also saw him running out of the hall when you walked to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	Always the same!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	Then I will go to Mr Alkaya, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u12	This agreement came about for a reason. Not only could Bangladesh not guarantee that the factories in that country are safe, but there were also companies, including Dutch companies, who eagerly used them, so that they could produce as cheap as possible. If the Minister insists that legal measures are not necessary, can she guarantee that Dutch companies, now that this agreement is in the process of disappearing, will not participate in exploitation, child labour or unsafe factories, including Bangladesh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u13	Giving a direct guarantee is always difficult. A second point is that all Dutch companies operating internationally are of course deemed to comply with the OECD guiding principles on responsible conduct of business. The textile agreement also creates very clear frameworks. So there is already a large package of measures and expectations. A third point is that Mr Alkaya assumes that this agreement should be denounced. I'm not gonna take that for granted. We still hope for a diplomatic and political commitment whereby the Government of Bangladesh allows a transition period in which the labour inspectorate is built up and where partners, the private sector, the government, ourselves and donors can work towards implementing all the expectations raised in the Bangladesh agreement. I'll come back to legality as well. As you know, an investigation is being carried out two years after the agreements were implemented. Then we'll see what works and what doesn't work, and if any legal measures are involved. This has been agreed within the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u14	Our source is the article Clean Clothes. I read that 85% of the identified problems have been solved. The agreement did indeed work successfully. Trade unions, companies and also the government of Bengal have participated. But we are now debating something that has taken place there. I miss the article which has been the basis and motivation of the Supreme Court in Bangladesh to declare that restraining order. Can the Minister reflect on that? If we know that motivation, we may be able to debate it further here. But now everyone and everything is getting involved, to the point of sanctions. But what's the reason for that restraining order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u15	Well, there are different appreciations of the agreement and what it has achieved. Indeed, the joint letter, which also supports the Netherlands, states that in all factories where textiles are produced, for example, the committees, the safety provisions have not yet been properly implemented. Less than 60% of the structural reforms or renovations to be carried out in many buildings are currently being carried out. That is why the partners in the agreement are asking for a postponement of the ruling of the Supreme Court. Our assessment is that the government in Bangladesh has said: we are now taking responsibility. That is also something we encourage and welcome, because that is what it is all about in the end. But a delay in implementation can be very important. Let us say: we are looking at a date in 2020, with an acceleration and as support an additional commitment, perhaps also by the Netherlands, through the ILO and other partners. We have, of course, also increased the funding of the child labour fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u16	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u17	I have a follow-up question because I can't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u18	No, it is no longer possible because Mr Van Helvert has already asked a question. I'm not gonna argue with you. I'm going to see Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'm just trying to take the question with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yeah, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u21	I didn't quite hear him. Thank you for the efforts of the Minister and her efforts to at least not break the Bangladesh agreement now but hopefully extend it. I hope that is also about being able to continue sending foreign inspectors, because I understand that they are being prevented too. Of course Bangladesh must start organizing its own labour inspectors, but it is not yet that far. We know that paper is patient, but these foreign inspectors are crucial to keep proper monitoring of the signature of the Bangladesh agreement. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u22	I agree. And I thought I answered Mr Amhaouch's question as well. I'll set the two together. Our assessment is that the government in Bangladesh now wants to take full responsibility for control. There are sensitivities. There is always an element that there is too much foreign interference. They themselves think that they have reached the final stage. Based on technical information, our assessment is that more time is needed to achieve the objectives that have not yet been achieved. I fully agree with Mr Voordewind that foreign, independent monitoring remains relevant. That is in the interests of Bangladesh and ultimately in the interests of the people for whom we are doing this. It is also good for our own feeling that this is going to work, so that we can also learn lessons from it in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-16-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I'm suspending the meeting for three minutes. Then we're going to swear a new colleague on behalf of the Party for Animals.
