ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Upper Chamber. I'm opening the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The general provision to be added to the Constitution by this legislative proposal is short: the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. Although the general provision itself is very short, it is accompanied by a ten-page explanatory memorandum. In paragraph 3.4 of this explanatory statement, entitled Concise wording, the government states that there are three elements to be guaranteed: democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. The government has chosen not to specify them further by mentioning the imaginable different elements. Although the government does not express this in the text of the Constitution, it does so implicitly through extensive discussion in the explanatory memorandum, which reflects the intention of the legislator as well as the source of law. In its opinion, the Council of State expressly refers to the explanatory memorandum: "In its opinion, the explanatory memorandum lacks an adequate explanation of the legislative meaning and scope of the general provision and does not sufficiently specify the status and functions of the provision." It is therefore important not only to consider the proposed constitutional rule, but also, above all, the explanatory memorandum. This explanatory statement places the proposed constitutional rule in point 2.2 in an international context. It states, inter alia, "The rule of law, democracy and human rights are the three pillars of the Council of Europe." Should a supranational organisation, including Islamic Turkey as a member, serve as a benchmark for our Constitution and the aforementioned pillars in particular? Furthermore, this paragraph refers to the Treaty on European Union (TEU) which states "the attachment to the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law." Article 2 defines democracy, the rule of law and human rights as the values on which the Union is founded. Reference is also made to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The preamble states that the Union is building on the indivisible and universal values of human dignity and freedom, equality and solidarity, and that the Union is founded on the principle of democracy and the rule of law. This also applies: what does this EU creed add to our Dutch Constitution? Moreover, how unbelievable are these EU principles on democracy and freedom as Brussels' stronghold of unelected Eurocrats? Our Constitution does not need this context. Furthermore, the explanatory statement in point 3.2 on the rule of law states: "The fundamental and human rights are listed in the Constitution and, inter alia, in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Charter of the European Union and the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights." The use of the words "among other things" in this list creates scope for further interpretation and interpretation, and also allows, for example, to include the Cairo Declaration of Human Rights in Islam on an equal footing as a measure of human rights. This Islamic declaration subordinates all human rights to Sharia. Or can that interpretation be explicitly excluded? I'd like a response from the Minister. With regard to the safeguarding of democracy, point 3.1 of the explanatory memorandum states: "In addition, in order to speak of democracy, the right to vote and stand as a candidate is necessary. Democracy is also closely linked to other fundamental rights. For example, fundamental rights are needed to ensure the pluralistic nature of democracy. This concerns not only the right to vote, but also, for example, freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of assembly and demonstration." The question is what the added value of this explanatory memorandum to the proposed text of the Constitution will mean in practice. How much significance does this explanation have for direct democracy, for the freedom of citizens to express themselves in referendums, for respect for the democratic process in legislation? How is the pluralistic nature of a democracy guaranteed in relation, for example, to an alderman who wants to declare her city a republic if she does not like the democratic preference of the electorate? And what is the added value in practice for freedom of expression for, for example, Islam-critical cartoonists and politicians? Do they enjoy constitutional protection against persecution by means of this general provision? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. More than two weeks ago, Minister Ollongren spoke out the Mayor Dales Lecture. In this lecture, the Minister of the Interior gave a tirade on the late Pim Fortuyn and on our PVV party leader Geert Wilders because they were critical of Article 1 of the Constitution, which was only introduced in 1983. I quote the Minister: 'Popularism regularly attacks this foundation of our society'. How contradictory is it to the intention of this general provision that democratically elected representatives should not use their freedom of expression to criticise a constitutional provision, that a minister should dismiss it as an attack on the foundation of our society by the executive power? Next, in her reading, the Minister refers explicitly to the present legislative proposal and to Article 1 in the following, rather comprehensive quote: "An alternative way to make that Constitution more vibrant could be through an introductory text above the Constitution. Or a little chicer: a preamble. A general provision before Article 1. It'll be in the First Chamber in two weeks. The proposal for this general provision is: 'The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law'. The Dutch political community has a respectable history. Think of the fight for freedom and equality. I very much appreciate the fact that, in this context, fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law are referred to as principles of our political system, of our identity. That's what a certain symbol function assumes. And it gives direction as far as I'm concerned. The general provision lays down the framework within which the rest of the Constitution must be understood." Mr. Chairman. In her reading, the Minister places the present general provision in a directional context. Is it also to be understood, in this context of the preamble, what the Minister said just before, in her speech, about 'populists'? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I shall now give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. On 14 February 2012, following a debate on the report of the State Constitutional Commission in 2010 and the reaction of the Cabinet, this Chamber adopted a motion asking the government to develop a legislative proposal for the inclusion of a general provision in the Constitution. This provision should state that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. This motion was motivated by a proposal by the State Commission to express more explicitly in the Constitution a number of fundamental principles of the rule of law and democracy. This would contribute to the normative nature of the Constitution. The Court considered that the Constitution should contain the fundamental standards and principles which serve as the basis for the establishment of legal and authority relations in the State. Furthermore, the Court considered that the principle of the democratic rule of law is one of the constitutional essentials and must therefore be recognised and visible in the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. As the first signatory to the motion, I and my group very much welcome the government's intention, in the form of the legislative proposal before us, to follow up this ruling by the Chamber. However, on behalf of my group, I would like to make a few comments on the proposal and to discuss a number of issues further with the government. Mr. Chairman. My group has not escaped the fact that the legislative proposal has been questioned from the scientific point of view, by the Council of State and during the parliamentary debate in the House of Representatives. In summary, the various points of criticism are that there are doubts about the usefulness and necessity, status, function, normative meaning, scope and incorporation into the Constitution of the proposed general provision. To some extent, these hesitations can be traced back to what I consider to be the most wrong assumptions about the purpose and consequences of a general provision. For another part, the political and constitutional reality is that the answer to the question of what exactly belongs to and does not belong to the Constitution, how the different provisions should be formulated and in what order they should be incorporated into the Constitution is thought differently. In this way, I believe that the Constitution is above all a function of maintaining the constitutional status quo. What is more, we believe that the government has largely refuted these criticisms. Indeed, the principles of the democratic rule of law are now only implicit, not systematic and incomplete in the Constitution. Explicitly specifying these principles in the Constitution strengthens normality and thus its guarantee function. Moreover, a general provision of this scope confirms that the content of the Constitution is in line with generally accepted constitutional principles. Finally, such a provision provides an interpretative framework for the interpretation and application of the Constitution. So far, the government and my group are on the same page. We still have a few questions about the wording of the proposed provision. In its report, the State Committee made a proposal for a general provision. It expresses the fact that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law, in paragraph 1 that the government respects and guarantees human dignity, fundamental rights and fundamental principles of law, in paragraph 2, and that public authority is exercised only under the Constitution and the Law, in paragraph 3. The government has chosen not to accept this proposal but to come up with its own more stringent wording. Initially, the text was worded as follows: "The Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. Amendment amended the text to: "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law'. My group can understand in itself the government's choice of a strict provision. The text of the State Committee sounds attractive at first sight, but on second thought it contains the necessary complications. For example, it does not make clear the relationship between the concept of the democratic rule of law in paragraph 1 and the definitions contained in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the text of the State Commission. In this sense, the chosen effect raises more questions than it clarifies the meaning of the principle of the democratic rule of law. In this context, it is not incomprehensible that the government has deliberately refrained from giving a specific colour to the principles of democracy and the rule of law. How should they have taken shape from the point of view of completeness? It can be seen from the state theoretic literature that the concept of democracy originates from the concept of popular sovereignty devised by Rousseau, on the basis of which a number of more concrete principles have been developed in modern state development. For example, the principle of representation, the majority principle, the principle of accountability, the principle of public access and the principle of participation can be considered here. Moreover, the place and significance of these principles are not clearly considered. A similar exercise with regard to the concept of the rule of law results in similar complications. The concepts of separation of powers and human rights, to be traced back to John Locke, are in themselves generally accepted as the foundations of the rule of law. Its further development in terms of constitutionality, the rule of law, independent case law and the scope of codified fundamental rights already reveals differentiations. To add another side step: the idea of including a preamble in the Constitution became more difficult to discuss about the definition of a national identity. This rudimentary inventory makes it clear that the ambition in the Constitution to test an impact on the relevant elements of the democratic rule of law thus has its own complications. Therefore, where the government itself has not wrongly chosen a short and pointy wording, the question must then be asked to what extent the text before us is satisfactory. On this point, my group does need further reflection on the part of the government from the point of view of constitutional interpretation. Firstly, in our opinion, there is a conceptual problem. Both in the original text and in the amended text, fundamental rights are designated separately, in addition to the democratic rule of law. This wording suggests that fundamental rights have no relationship with democracy and/or the rule of law. That seems rather confusing to me. In addition to the principle of separation of powers, fundamental rights are one of the two pillars of the rule of law. Both concepts set legal limits to the exercise of power by the State. Democracy is the concept that limits the power of the State by identifying the people as the source of state power. On this basis, fundamental political rights such as the right to vote have developed. In other words, fundamental rights are a supporting part of what we have now come to call the democratic rule of law. For this reason, my group would not have opted in advance to include the term 'fundamental rights' as a separate core principle in the text. Moreover, the government recognises that the principles of the rule of law and democracy have developed independently of each other, but have subsequently become more closely linked in their conceptual, political and normative development. In the meantime, they are complementary principles which both limit and limit the exercise of public power. The rule of law sets limits to the decision-making process based on the law and the law is legitimised in reverse by democratic decision-making. In the meantime, the government seems to be aware of the fact that the constitutional anchoring of fundamental rights as a separate core principle is not necessary. The final choice to propose this is apparently linked to the way in which the same three-step approach has been formulated in international treaties. In the end, even after amendment, the House of Representatives has gone along with this and now even places fundamental rights ahead of the democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. My group wonders whether the wording 'The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law' would not have been more attractive. Given the interlinking of the rule of law and democracy in the course of state development, an indication of both principles in the form of a composite concept is most obvious. In addition, the explicit designation of fundamental rights, which form an integral part of the rule of law, does not really add anything. A second question that concerns my group concerns the phrase 'The Constitution guarantees'. I see a movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u6	I have a question for Mr Engels. I hear how he is now looking at the wording contained in the general provision. Does that in any way satisfy his previous request expressed in a motion in 2012?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u7	The aim is to get an answer to that question by asking the government and discussing the extent to which it responds and meets. If I were to answer your question now, it would be extremely uncourteous if I did not first offer the government, in this case the Minister, the opportunity to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u8	I would be the last to deny Mr Engels courtesy, so I am as anxious as he is to wait for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u9	I'll get back to you. I started by announcing that I have a second question. It concerns the phrase "The Constitution guarantees..." The government expressly designates the constitutionalist as a standard addressee. We would believe that it is not primarily and only the Constitution that upholds constitutional standards. In our view, too, it is the legislator, the judge and ultimately all public bodies and officials who are supposed to act as public servants within the guarantees of the democratic rule of law. Apparently, the government believes that the designation of the Constitution as a standard addressee clarifies the relationship with the other constitutional provisions and strengthens the normative function of the core principles formulated. In the opinion of the government, the democratic rule of law is apparently based on different bases of competence. My group wonders whether the best balance which the government claims to pursue between, on the one hand, strengthening the institutional, organisational and guarantee function of the Constitution and, on the other hand, the sober nature of the Constitution would no longer have been achieved if the words 'the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law' had been chosen. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. My group welcomes the government's proposal to include a general provision in the Constitution that states that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. On the subject of the proposed legislative text, we would like to ask the Minister to reflect once again on the addition of the concept of fundamental rights and on the designation of the constitutionalist as a standard address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. English. I now give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Engels on the impact of his 2012 motion, which has actually led to the intention to amend the constitution to add a general provision on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights to the Constitution. Last week, in this Chamber, we also talked about an intention to change the constitution to anchor the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. This intention, which we agreed with earlier today, is, in the words of last week's Minister, 'a legislative proposal that is normative and subjective, a legislative proposal that is framework and normative and that citizens can invoke in these cases'. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is about incorporating the general provision. Following amendment in the House of Representatives, this consists of nine words: 'The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law'. This bill is also normative, but it is not subjective to the proposed amendment to Article 17. It stands for Article 1 and is therefore part of the Constitution itself: a general provision of a kind of overarching nature. This general provision can guide the way in which we interpret the Constitution and, as a kind of guarantee, protect the legislator from the deconstitutionalisation of articles that establish fundamental rights and anchor the democratic rule of law. However, the Cabinet does not indicate a lower limit, not even in its reply to the Council of State's opinion on this matter. My question, on behalf of the group, to the Minister, is therefore to explain again exactly what forms of de-constitutionalisation are what a word, say; that is what we are going to try to say more often, in the cabinet's eyes, which would not be desirable and would be better protected by this legislative proposal. I would like some concrete examples of this. There is much to say, in addition to what individual articles already regulate, to firmly anchor fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law in the Constitution. The Constitution has evolved gradually in the Netherlands. Fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law are now deeply rooted in our thinking and doing, in our lawmaking and in our justice. This may seem almost self-evident, but in a broader context they are not. Autoritarian leadership with strong nationalist tendencies and governments under pressure from the rule of law and freedom of expression are visible at the external borders of Europe and also manifest within EU Member States and NATO. Once again, constitutionally ensuring that we do not want to go that way and expressing the roots of our rule of law is of more than symbolic value in that context. It also reflects the value we attach as a country to our participation in an EU and a Council of Europe, organisations based on these principles. We share the view of the authors of the motion and the cabinet that a general provision prior to Article 1 of the motion is a better manifestation than a preamble which as such will not be part of the law. We do not have a Constitution of great words and compelling vistas. A sober Constitution is the definition that the cabinet also chooses. The wording of this general provision, even after amendment, is in that tradition. However, my group feels that the way in which the cabinet then operates is not only sober, but also economical. The general provision is overarching and framework, but does not have a higher effect according to the cabinet. What framework does the Cabinet consider this general provision to be exactly if it does not have a higher effect and does not confer rights on the citizen? A constitutional review involving such a normative framework in other countries is not possible in our legislation either. What extras, apart from symbolism, does this general provision offer? And if these are not more specific than has been done so far, could the cabinet not have just chosen a preamble with a little more text, explanation and explanation? Or vice versa: if the normative framework is considered important and made concrete, would it not be logical to actually give this general provision a more fundamental character and for example, as in Germany, to opt for some degree of immutability? I would like to avoid the word 'eternality value' used by the German constitution, which is perhaps too compelling for the sober nature of our Constitution. Besides, eternity is eternity. I hear comments from the Christian Union. I'm about to listen to their input with extra interest! But why doesn't the Cabinet at least choose not to subject future changes to a more severe regime than a simple change to the Constitution? That would make the general provision even more meaningful, and that would create the additional weight that we are now missing. It's all a bit economical. Years ago, in the run-up to the referendum on the European Constitution, the cabinet launched the slogan 'Europe, quite important'. The explanatory statement and the defence in the Lower House by the minister's predecessor breathes a bit of the same atmosphere: a general provision on fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, quite important, a bit. Could this Minister perhaps give a little more meaning and depth and perhaps even enthusiasm for the bill? Finally, Mr President. Fundamental and human rights are the basis of our system and our participation in international conventions. Democracy and the rule of law are an integral part of this. The fact that the House of Representatives amended that in a single concept of 'democratic state' has our approval. Or, as former Minister Hirsch Ballin once said, they are not available separately. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, the importance of safeguarding fundamental rights in the democratic rule of law is beyond doubt and is not subject to discussion. However, in the view of my group, democracy must be able to renew itself. Contemporary forms of participation and deliberative democracy and forms of direct participation must continue to be developed. We look forward to hearing the Minister's views on this and whether she sees in this general provision an opportunity or an obstacle to developing democracy in line with the demands of time. We look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. Mr Sini has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Engels. After all, his motion is at the basis of today's proposal. Mr. Chairman. Today, at first reading, we are discussing the legislative proposal including a general provision in the Constitution. With the present bill, the government has implemented the elaboration of the English and others motion adopted by this Chamber. It calls for the development of a proposal for the formulation of a general provision in the Constitution, stating that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. In our Constitution, the legislative proposal lays down the pillars of society: democracy, the rule of law and human rights, as laid down in, inter alia, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Charter of the European Union and the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights. By anchoring these core principles, our country follows the example of European countries such as Norway and Sweden. Mr. Chairman. My group agrees with the purpose of the general provision as an unnumbered article preceding Chapter 1 of the Constitution. Where the government intended to anchor "democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights" in the Constitution in the original bill, the House of Representatives, with the Koopmans amendment, opted for the wording "the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law," a wording that is close to the recommendation of the State Committee, the opinion of the Council of State and the English cum suis motion. The amended proposal of law follows the order of the Constitution itself: first fundamental rights and then the additional elements of our democratic rule of law. The author of the amendment rightly points out that there is no separate discussion of democracy and the rule of law, but of the 'democratic rule of law'. Democracy and the rule of law are inviolably linked in the Dutch state system. Or in the words of the former Minister of Justice Ernst Hirsch Ballin, said earlier: 'democracy and the rule of law are not available separately', as has also been mentioned in the House of Representatives. The PvdA Group welcomes the wording in the amended proposal of the law. My party stands for values such as equality, human dignity and solidarity. In our view, the incorporation of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law into the Constitution is by no means superfluous and does not prevent the sober nature of the Constitution. My group would have liked the above wording to have been supplemented by the human dignity pillar, as recommended by the state committee. We would like to hear from the Minister why this is not the case. Mr. Chairman. The State Commission recommended adding a general provision to the Constitution which is not only declaratory but also normative in nature, which means that the government respects and guarantees fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. The government could have done this by including in the legislative proposal, in addition to the wording "the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law," the addition "respectes the government and guarantees human dignity." Why hasn't the government chosen this, my group asks. In particular, the government puts forward the argument of the austerity of the Constitution not to do so. My group does not find this argument convincing. Can the Minister explain why this austerity outweighs the benefits of a general provision which could strengthen the meaning of normality and the legal power for the citizen? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The government states that the general provision in the present legislative proposal is of a declarative, normative and symbolic nature. On the other hand, the Human Rights College states that the proposal makes a somewhat unambitious impression and that the directional nature is low. The Council of State also points out that the proposed general provision appears to be mainly explanatory-symbolistic and has a weak normative meaning at most. My group is pleased to receive a response from the Minister to the government's proposed normative nature. We would also like to hear the Minister's opinion on the views of the Council of State and the College of Human Rights on this issue. My group awaits the Minister's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Sini. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group is also happy to join in the congratulations to Mr Engels. Mr. Chairman. "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law." Today we are discussing the addition of this single sentence to our Constitution. In principle, it is a good idea to explicitly anchor the protection of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law in the Constitution. The democratic rule of law, including fundamental rights, is the cornerstone of the Dutch state system. The members of my group are not against such anchoring in principle, as they pointed out during the written procedure. We do, however, believe that this anchoring must have substance. Standards that want to shine outwards, but which have little substance to hide, do not belong in our Constitution. It is also the task of the Constitutionalist to ensure that the Constitution is not subject to material devaluation. The members of my group, like the Advisory Section of the Council of State, have serious reservations about the legislative significance and scope of this general provision. In the opinion of my group, too, the status and functions of the provision are not sufficiently specified. We have therefore repeatedly asked the government to specify the general provision. The interpretation given by the government to the proposed provision has remained very limited. The question therefore arises as to which guarantee the general provision at all in the case of future amendments to the Constitution, other than the safeguards already provided by the Constitution at present. Could the government go into that again? To date, at least the members of the CDA Group have not been able to trace any concrete conclusions from the general provision that would be at the disposal of the Constitutionalist and the legislator in their consideration. It should be noted that the protection of the democratic rule of law, including fundamental rights, is currently in no way absent from the Constitution. It is, after all, reflected extensively in the substantive provisions contained therein. The amendment of these provisions requires a two-reading examination by the constitutionalist, with a two-thirds majority required in both chambers of the States General to be able to make a change. The current substantive provisions in the Constitution therefore already have a significant legislative effect. They themselves constitute a threshold of argument for change. Or does the government see this differently? To the extent that the general provision aims to establish an additional threshold of argument, it must be noted that the general provision will also apply that it may ultimately be set aside by the constitutional authority by a two-thirds majority. On this point, too, I would like a reaction from the government. Mr. Chairman. Real protection of the democratic rule of law, including fundamental rights, is not guaranteed by simply incorporating the proposed general provision into the Constitution. Real protection requires continuous attention and a critical attitude of all institutions involved. The members of the CDA Group are pleased that the government explicitly recognises this. We therefore also encourage the government to come up with concrete initiatives that contribute to a broad awareness in our society of our Constitution, in the words of the government itself: the freedoms, rights and duties inherent in it, which belong to the Netherlands, the Netherlands and the democratic rule of law. How does the government see this? However, as my contribution so far has shown, the members of my group are still not convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this legislative proposal. The proposal also mentions fundamental rights in parallel with the democratic rule of law, while they are part of it. Why was this chosen? I am also asking this because, in our view, it is a missed opportunity that the government has not chosen to codify the principle of legality in the Constitution. That would have added something substantial to the Constitution. However, this general provision, with the very limited interpretative explanation given to it, seems to the members of the CDA Group to find too much of an empty shell. And empty casings don't belong in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Mr Köhler has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for the inclusion of a general provision in the Constitution, which we are discussing at first reading today, now has a rather long history. It stems from the opinion of the Constitutional Affairs Committee chaired by Ms Thomassen, which was issued at the request of the then Balkenende cabinet in 2010. The committee answered the question as to whether it would be appropriate to provide the Constitution with a general provision with a full yes. It proposed that this provision be made up of three sentences: 1. The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. 2. The government respects and guarantees human dignity, fundamental rights and fundamental principles of law. 3. Public authority shall be exercised only under the Constitution or the law. The Committee argues that it strengthens the normative nature of the Constitution, which is important for the citizen and for the government. Then there was a pre-advisation from the Rutte I cabinet, which was in office at the time, which almost completely ignored the report of the State Commission, with that cabinet typical bluntness and a barrage of faulty arguments. At its meeting on 7 February 2012, this Chamber discussed the report and the pre-opinion. That led to the English motion; honor who is due. By 1 October 2012, the government was asked to present, yes, before 1 October 2012, a proposal for a general provision in the Constitution which, taking into account the opinion of the State Commission, states that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law, if possible developed or supplemented by further rules. In response to this adopted motion, the Rutte II cabinet's proposal to amend the Constitution was published in July 2016 by adding a general provision saying, "The Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights." It's a lame bribe of the state committee's proposal. It is meant to be concise, but actually not much more than a summary table of contents. Last year the newly elected House of Representatives discussed this text, so we probably have to wait another four years for a possible second reading. Mr Koopmans of the VVD Group tabled an amendment to his maiden speech to merge the words "democracy" and "the rule of law" by referring to "the democratic rule of law." Since this amendment was adopted, there is now a proposal with the text: "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law." The Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes the eventual inclusion of the concept of the democratic rule of law in the Constitution, in line with the Thomassian State Commission and the English motion. However, the text now proposed is not very clear. Why is there one characteristic of the democratic rule of law, namely fundamental rights? I find it difficult to ask the Minister, because neither she nor her predecessor made this up. Where the State Commission proposed that the government guarantee fundamental rights, as a normative text, it is now stated that the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights. But there are still some comments to be made. First of all, of course, the Constitution offers too few guarantees as long as the courts are not allowed to review formal laws against the Constitution. I do not wish to raise Mrs Halsema's proposal at this time, because this was the subject of an exchange in this Chamber last week. More specifically, I would like to ask the Minister: do you think, like the Thamassen State Commission, that fundamental rights would be better guaranteed by the Constitution if the ban on judges to review the Constitution were removed, at least as regards fundamental rights? In practice, our fundamental rights are now guaranteed mainly by the fact that the Netherlands is a party to international human rights conventions, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the ECHR, which has direct effect. Citizens can therefore rely on it in court. A second comment is that even after the addition of the right to a fair trial and access to justice, as we have just decided, our Constitution does not contain all the most important fundamental rights. The Thamassen Committee's report mentions three which could be added to the Constitution: the right to life, the ban on torture and inhuman or degrading treatment and the right to respect for family and family life. I ask the Minister what she thinks of that. With the answer given last week that the committee was also divided on this issue, I am not satisfied. The part of the Thamassen Committee that considered that the inclusion of these fundamental rights in the Constitution was not necessary at that time stated that the passage in the general provision proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to guarantee human dignity could be sufficient for the time being. In the absence of these words in the general provision before us, their argument lapses. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few words about the requirement of legality, point 3 of the general provision proposed by the Thomases Committee: "Public authority is exercised only under the Constitution or the law." The present proposal to amend the Constitution does not include this point at all, whereas this characteristic of the rule of law does not clearly appear elsewhere in the Constitution. The members of the CDA Group rightly pointed this out in writing. The Minister's statement in the reply that there are many provisions in the Constitution from which this principle can be derived does not alter this. Hence my final question to the Minister: would it not be appropriate to include the principle of legality explicitly in the Constitution? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. Mrs Duthler has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My time is still at zero. I don't mind that, but... Yes, thank you. Last week we dealt with a legislative proposal concerning the amendment of the Constitution following the motion by Mr Lokin-Sassen, which was adopted unanimously in this House. Today, another legislative proposal is on the agenda which aims to amend the Constitution. This time it concerns the implementation of the English motion adopted on 14 February 2012. I also warmly congratulate Mr Engels on the fact that the legislative proposal was adopted by the House of Representatives at first reading and is now before plenary. A general provision is inserted into the Constitution which does not have a number and which reads as follows: "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law." So much for nothing new under the sun. It is new that this provision explicitly expresses and establishes that the Constitution and the democratic rule of law are core principles of our Dutch constitution. If that's necessary, it's the first thought. The explanatory memorandum states that the proposed general provision reflects the guarantee function of the Constitution and thus the importance of this function for democracy. With the recording of this function, the guarantee function also acquires legislative force, according to the explanatory memorandum. My group has a number of questions about this. First of all, it is striking that the present provision does not receive a number. What significance should be attached to this? Does this not make the proposed provision a merely symbolic provision? There is nothing wrong with that in itself. When and by whom can this provision be invoked? Is it not particularly the legislator who is being held to account with this provision? Or will it be possible for judges to review laws in the light of this general provision, should the ban on constitutional review ever be abolished? My group also wonders how the government sees the safeguard function of this provision. The Government has written in the reply that the general provision increases the burden of proof for repealing or amending provisions in the Constitution, but also for codification of new issues. The Government does not consider such an effect to be present in the absence of codification. What does the government mean by this effect of increasing the burden of proof? Does the government refer to the burden of proof for the need to withdraw, increase or amend a provision or does the government mean that the justification should be even better? And compared to what? Shouldn't the justification always be good, even without such a provision? And isn't it up to the Second and the First Chamber to determine whether the foundation should be improved? Surely that cannot depend on a general provision? What guarantee does this provision offer for future changes to the Constitution, other than the safeguards that the Constitution already offers at the moment? Such a question has already been raised by the CDA Group in the further preliminary report, but there has not yet been a clear response to it. The government replied that the provision sends an important signal and that this signal binds the constitutionalist to obligations arising from the general provision. Will the government reflect on this again on the basis of a concrete example, so that the answer gets a bit more body and what more is going to say? Mr. Chairman. My group is looking for the real reason, the real reason, to introduce the proposed provision. One of the preliminary studies carried out on behalf of the Constitutional Review Committee mentioned, among other things, that in the debates on revisions of the Constitution since 1814 never seriously considered including a preamble in the Constitution. This would not be in line with the austerity of the Dutch Constitution. In addition, the same study found that 13 of the then 27 EU Member States included a preamble in their constitution. It is remarkable that these are almost all countries with a recent dictatorial past. Important reasons for including a preamble in the Constitution for these countries were the settlement of the past and the marking of a new beginning according to new rules and new principles. Fortunately, such a motive does not apply to the Netherlands. Mr President, I will conclude. As you can see, the members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats mainly have questions about the added value of the proposed general provision. Does it fit in with the austerity of the Dutch Constitution and why is it necessary? They wonder whether the general provision proposed does not have a symbolic character, which, in itself, has nothing to do with it. It has repeatedly been mentioned in this House that the rule of law is not self-evident and needs to be maintained. It is not for nothing that we hold regular debates on the state of the rule of law. Nevertheless, the Members of my group need a reasoned answer to the questions that have just been asked. They look forward to it with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u20	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. Mr Schalk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also, of course, congratulate Mr Engels, although it is still unclear whether he intended this effect of his motion at that time. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Committee on the Interior, under the inspiration of Mr Engels, decided that two separate debates were needed on additions to the Constitution. Last week we talked about the right to a fair trial. In that debate, I indicated how the SGP looks at amendments to the Constitution. I said then: "Something should be done only if that is considered and if it is clear what the consequences are. Putting something in should be careful and only when it is really necessary." The Minister also gave some interesting arguments for amending the Constitution. She mentioned an urgent social need and added value, but also sufficient constitutional maturity. Mr. Chairman. In that light, my group was positive about adding the right to a fair trial, because it was an addition that was concrete and applicable: doing justice, private and public. Today we are talking again about an addition, but not about a specific right, but about a general provision that my group is concerned about in a spirit of concern about what it adds, namely the general provision that the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and democratic rule of law. I'm gonna take both elements apart. First of all, the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights. Why should this be put in the Constitution, I ask the Minister. A constitution already presupposes that there are rules and fundamental rights. Why would you have to name that? There are also duties in a law. Shouldn't you say that the Constitution guarantees the duties? If there should be a general provision in the Constitution, for example, should you also include in the Civil Code a general provision such as "the Civil Code guarantees civil rights"? In short, the first phrase seems like a typical death doer. We should not put our Constitution into something that does not belong in it, adds nothing and, above all, is confusing. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Constitution would then guarantee the democratic rule of law. Let me begin by saying that it is a great good thing that we are living in a rule of law. There are examples of countries where the rule of law is to be sought, with all the consequences, especially for religious minorities, for example. In a rule of law, the law governs the government, the legislator and the legislative process. In many Member States of the European Union, people's representatives, including co-legislators, are composed as a result of free elections. And the rule of law has an independent judge. All these important issues, democratic rights, are already covered by the Constitution. In fact, in contrast to the right to a fair trial, this bill introduces an abstract concept on which there is a great deal of uncertainty. After all, there are several legitimate effects of the concept of democratic rule of law. In any case, the general provision states that the Constitution must guarantee the democratic rule of law. Can the Minister explain to me how this works out in practice and what added value it has, other than that there could be a huge discussion about what is meant? Let me give you a concrete example. In last week's donor debate, the fundamental right to the inviolability of the body is 'undressed'. Could this have been avoided, for example, on the basis of this general provision? There's one more thing. How can the Constitution guarantee anything? I can still imagine that you would say that the Constitution contains fundamental rights or that the Constitution regulates the democratic rule of law. But laws, including constitutions, do not guarantee anything; they regulate, they give rights and they appoint duties. Ensuring, enforcing and complying with those laws and obligations is actually a next step. How does the Minister view this? Are you sure the terminology is correct? The cabinet focuses on added value and constitutional maturity. Last week I asked the Minister when there was constitutional maturity. The Minister thought that was a difficult question. She touched on an answer and said: "a social debate that slowly but surely translates into a wish or initiative for such a constitutional change." The Minister therefore referred to it as a difficult issue and she referred to our common judgment to be sure. Mr. Chairman. The least I would expect is a firm and thoughtful text. Now, the text drawn up by the cabinet was immediately knocked down and exchanged for what is now before it. Does the Minister consider this to be appropriate to the criterion of constitutional maturity? Mr. Chairman. This general provision therefore contains two elements: fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. My predecessor, Mr Holdijk, stressed that the main features of our rule of law, such as constitutional monarchy and parliamentary democracy, are already derived from a combined set of constitutional provisions. In addition, he expressly warned against a general provision as a kind of first-class provision, which precedes the other second-class provisions. And even if you do not want to see it as a first-class clause, it remains an interpretation framework for the rest of the Constitution. Take the aforementioned constitutional monarchy, which is also a characteristic of our rule of law. Why should the general provision not refer to the constitutional monarchy? Isn't it valuable? Or is it of a lower order? In fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u22	I am very intrigued by the remark made by my good colleague in which he makes it appear as if the constitutional monarchy was an element of the rule of law. The constitutional monarchy can indeed be derived from the Constitution because of its hereditary kingship. As such, that term does not exist either. I am very surprised that this is seen as part of the rule of law. There are many different theories about what is at the heart of the rule of law. I do not know one, at least not in the current literature, in which this element is included as an element of the rule of law. I am therefore very curious to know what the source of this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u23	Thank you for that question. Indeed, I would have expressed myself wrong if I had said that this is necessarily part of the rule of law. That is not necessary at all, but the constitutional monarchy is important to our Dutch rule of law. You could say: why wouldn't you define that interest if you were already going to add a general provision? As far as I am concerned, this general provision should not just include the guarantee of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, but I should like to mention this in a moment, because I would be in favour of a much broader introduction to the Constitution, namely a preamble. The constitutional monarchy would be very good in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u24	I can imagine that, but if you also want to include in a preamble or general provision something about the form of state or form of government of the Netherlands, under the general law of the state, we do not have a constitutional monarchy, but a constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u25	Sure. Yes. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u26	Is that an acceptable formulation for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u27	In fact, this question proves how many elements should be added at the time when you are going to give indications of how our Constitution should be put together and what things could or could not be appointed in and by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u28	No, that is only a complication if you have more ambition to put something in a general provision that is of a very different order than what the limits of this debate are. But if that is what you want, I am not in favour of this and I would like to say something about the form of state or form of government, I would say that we should be in line with the existing constitutional standards. Moreover, I do not think that is necessary, because we are talking about a very different feature from what this general provision is intended to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u29	I hear what Mr Engels has to say about this. I am trying to point out that, as far as I am concerned, there is now a very short wording to which you could add a lot of other things. In my text, I would like to touch on a few other points that you might say should not be included in a general provision. That is precisely what I am trying to say: I think you should look at a preamble and include some of these elements. My final question was why the general provision does not refer to the constitutional monarchy. We just had a conversation about whether or not we should. In fact, could you later, by appealing to the democratic rule of law, infringe the constitutional provisions on the monarchy? Mr. Chairman. Since the beginning of this discussion, the SGP Group has been in favour of a preamble. That would do much more justice to the intentions of explaining what the Constitution is and how it functions in our rule of law. In addition, a preamble could include key concepts such as "human dignity," "right to life," "power separation" and "independence of the judiciary." Fortunately, this is only a first reading. There's still a lot to think about and discuss. I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Mrs Bikker has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since last January, the showpiece of the Netherlands has been the Plaktkaat van Verlatinghe, the declaration of independence of the Netherlands. It is one of the forming documents of our nation and shows the ruler of the people his place. In my best former Dutch I read what it says: "(...) that a Prince of the Land of God has been set high over his undersats, to keep his own, and to protect him from all unrighteous, troublesome and gloomy a shepherd to guard his sheep." It continues that the subjects were not created for the prince or to live under tyranny. I could also have mentioned the Union of Utrecht, in which freedom of conscience was recognised. It is clear that important elements of the democratic rule of law as we now know them in our country have developed over the centuries. It is these and other defining moments in the history of the Netherlands that my party has in mind in advocating a preamble to this Constitution, so that our sober Constitution has an introduction that gives him a little more shine than is currently the case, so that the struggle that was needed for our freedoms becomes more known.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The government has not dared to explore that trail of a preamble further so far. She dared nothing at all, even when the Constitutional Commission came to a general provision with its opinion. It is under the constant encouragement of Mr Engels, for which we appreciate, supported by various groups, mine too, and this house that we can take a step forward today. I would like to thank Mr Engels for his efforts. Our Constitution is a very implicit and incomplete expression of the fact that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. In 2010, the Constitutional Commission did not leave any doubt about this and proposed a general provision. However, the legislative proposal we are discussing today proposes a much leaner general provision than the text proposed by the State Committee, which is even on the front of the committee's report. I would like to ask the Minister once again to give a brief description of the profits of this lean variant compared to the proposal of the State Commission. I have seen in all the documents the conviction that the Dutch Constitution is a sober constitution. But "sober" is: no unnecessary fringe, no bombastic sentences and no overloaded rhetoric. But that cannot be said of the proposal of the State Committee, is it not? The government is now giving the impression that it wanted to adapt as little as possible. Can the Minister take that impression away from my group? I'd like to invite her to that. The profit of the proposed provision is, in any case, that it reflects the main legal and political principles of our country. The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. The Constitution ensures that, as does the Constitution, fundamental rights are guaranteed. But more precisely, what does that guarantee mean? The Minister has clearly stated that the standard address is first and foremost the constitutionalist and the legislator in a formal sense. That means that the States-General and the government have to live up to these words. There is then no constitutional review, which functions as a remedial counter-power. I have read with appreciation, but also with care, a contribution from former Minister Hirsch Ballin, who once again pointed the finger at a debate that was held not so long ago in this house about the school of cooperation. The Council of State had once again been asked for advice from this house. It was clear in the opinion that the proposed text did not fit into the current interpretation of Article 23 Constitution, but a majority of the Chamber ruled otherwise by accepting for the first time a teleological interpretation of Article 23 Constitution. I do not want to repeat that debate here, but I do have the concern whether the legislator is always the guarantee that the Constitution now intends to put in place. If there is political profit to be made, will it be possible to fulfil that role? What safety valves are there? How does the Minister see this? Does she think other safety valves are necessary? I am very curious to hear her views on this point. This bill is still working on an important recommendation from the Constitutional Commission of the States. One of the main reasons why that committee was set up was the accessibility and stability of the Constitution. Does the Minister, who is still at the beginning of the reigning period, have more ambitions in this respect? My group is happy to encourage her to do so. Our fundamental rights and our state system are not quiet property, but need maintenance and awareness. As far as maintenance is concerned, developments in other countries show how important it is that the essentials of the state system are laid down in such a way that they do not change easily in times of revolution. In this sense, it is rather strange that a general provision does not have a weighted amendment procedure compared to other constitutional provisions. How does the Minister see that? I have seen with approval that the Rutte III cabinet is investing in a resilient democratic rule of law, and I have also seen how anti-legal forces can be better restrained. That would require a very precise pen if you were to make a legislative proposal on that. When does the Minister intend to come up with concrete proposals on this issue? Mr President, I will conclude. The Christian Union Group sees the addition of this general provision as a small but valuable step. It expresses that the Constitution is the foundation of our constitutional system by guaranteeing the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights. I have already mentioned that in the Netherlands, the freedoms that have been fought have been significant in the creation and establishment of our state system. Keeping that history alive gives our Constitution a deeper foundation. The democratic rule of law is not in itself and is not a legal reality, but it is much deeper. I therefore invite the Minister to keep that history alive and accessible, because the Constitution is not finished. He lives and deserves our attention over and over again. You have tasted, Mr President, that the Christian Union is keen to continue to think about how to make our Constitution a living document and a precious asset in our country. That is precisely why I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the first term? It seems to me that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-eerstekamer-5.u33	I shall suspend the meeting until 3.15 p.m. pending the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
