ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	We are going to have a debate on the Navy Note. A warm welcome to the Minister and a warm welcome to my colleagues. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. 2018 was a good year. The economy grew by 2.8%. But it seems that not only this cabinet, but also the economy is over its peak; "the peak is over," says the CPB. For next year, growth expectations will be substantially adjusted down to below 2%. The CPB was still assuming 2.7% growth, DNB now expects growth to fall to 1.7%. That's a whole percentage point less. Mr. Chairman. It was also a good year for Minister Hoekstra. He was able to rewrite one windfall after another. Taxes were 3 billion higher and expenditure was 3.7 billion lower than expected. On balance, therefore, that is a windfall for this Minister of 7 billion. That's good. So the Minister of Finance can be satisfied. But a lot of people at home are a lot less satisfied. They read that the Netherlands is doing well, but they don't notice it. Especially the lower-educated and the middle-class have not been able to check and feel heard. The elite take good care of themselves, but forget the common man and woman. Over the past two years, the economy has grown by almost 6%, but purchasing power has barely grown. We've been seeing this trend for decades. People are right to be angry. In the Netherlands, still a rich country, you might say, more than a third of households have trouble getting by. That's 3 million families. One in five households suffers from payment problems, and half suffer from severe payment problems. These are 1.5 million families, say 6 million people, who are short and cannot bear the daily costs: rent, mortgage, care, gas, water, light, groceries. They can't do it, and that's why they're angry. 2.8 million people in the Netherlands live in poor conditions; in the Netherlands in 2018. While the elite are trying to save the world, the common man and woman are trying to make it to the end of the month. That's the way the cards are, and that's the way they are. The elite are oh so concerned with the people in Africa and with the refugees in Greece, but their own people drop them hard. The cabinet is wrong about priorities. Billions disappear abroad and their own people get tips. People feel abandoned, cornered, hunted. We see this not only in the Netherlands, but everywhere in Europe. We see how the securities are taken away: the WW, the pension, the care, the permanent job, the future. Everything's insecure. They see how the Netherlands is flooded with immigrants who add nothing and get everything for nothing. All that has to be paid for. They see that wages have been barely rising for years and taxes are only rising. And they see that everything becomes more expensive: the rent, the care premium, the energy bill and from 1 January also the groceries. For next year they will be promised again by this minister that everything will be better, really. But who do you still believe? How many times does the Minister think people are gonna be fooled? Because in the Autumn note, we can see that the surplus is rising again from 0.8% to 0.9% of GDP and the CPB was even talking about 1.1% of GDP this morning. That's a 1.5 billion difference. How is that to be explained, I ask this Minister. The cabinet therefore holds 7 billion, and according to the CPB 8.5 billion, over this year. In other words, this minister has raised 7 billion too much in taxes from the citizens. But why? Why raise more taxes than necessary, I ask this minister. It can't be that half of the Netherlands is struggling to make ends meet and this minister makes a jar of 7 billion for no reason? If we were to use that surplus for additional purchasing power for the people so that the care premium and VAT would not have to rise and the rents could be reduced, that would help them. I would also like to mention the whole debate on the energy bill. We could not, because of this surplus, allow the measures contained in the coalition agreement to continue, the tax increases on natural gas and on energy. That'll help people. I shall table a motion on these points in the second term, because we see consumption falling sharply next year, from 2.7% to 1.9%. How can you explain this? I thought everyone was gonna get better next year. Well, I didn't. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is very busy with the climate, with Europe, with the UN and the G20, all at your service, but it forgets its own citizens. The cabinet is busy with the 122,000 foreign students who have to get a place at our universities so there is not enough room for our own students. The cabinet is busy paying WW benefits to Poland who work here and who are already entitled to WW after one day's work. The cabinet is busy looking for a destination for the 4.5 billion in development aid to Africa. The cabinet is busy providing the hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers with a home, a benefit and a language course. And the cabinet is busy filling up all kinds of EU funds for weak banks and weak countries, such as the Structural Funds, the EFSI and the ESM. So there is now a euro area budget, as we have seen. Against all appointments! My question to the Minister is: why did this minister go through the pump in Brussels? First, for six months, warn that this is an excuse for a transfer union and now let Prime Minister Rutte sign off on the cross. Not for nothing do both Juncker and Macron call this a breakthrough and a nice first step towards the stability mechanism. Read the transfer union. How can there be a separate euro area budget for convergence and competition under the MFF? I ask the Minister, while that MFF is filled by all Member States, including non-euro countries. The next step is, of course, to lift the euro area budget out of the MFF and make it a separate budget filled with additional payments and European taxes. You can wait for that. In other words, the cabinet is very busy, but busy with the wrong things. It's crowded with everything and everything, but it forgets its own people. The Dutchman just wants a safe country with good schools and affordable care, where you can drive a bit and where you can also save something for a week's vacation. That is what the Dutch want and yet 320,000 working Dutch people have to live in poverty in this country and 38% of the households have difficulty living. This cabinet would be better off worrying about its own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr Van Dijck cited this morning's CPB investigation. One of the major points that the CPB makes but that Mr Van Dijck leaves completely unnamed is the Brexit. How's he looking at that Brexit? Isn't that a horror for the Dutch economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	The Brexit hurts both in the UK and in Europe and especially in the Netherlands. That is why I do not understand why the Netherlands is so keen on Juncker and his friends and does not stand up for its own interest in the Brexit, for example by concluding a trade agreement with the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	In my view, this government stands up for the Dutch interest by seeking to ensure that Britain remains a member of the European Union and, above all, that the Netherlands remains a member of the European Union. Does Mr Van Dijck agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	No, the United Kingdom has chosen to leave the European Union. The people have chosen to do so. I know that the D of D66 no longer stands for democracy, because you do not like the opinion of the people. I talked about that last time. But the population has chosen to do so and the Netherlands should do so. For we are better off outside the European Union than within the European Union. And of course that hurts for a while, including in the United Kingdom, but I said last week that the United Kingdom is ultimately the laughing third.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	I believe that the CPB is showing that it is a short-term tragedy and a long-term tragedy. And it would be a much bigger drama for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Yeah, well, I disagree. I think it is a tragedy for the Netherlands to stay in the European Union and to fill such a euro area budget, which is now being put on the scaffolding, with big pots of money. Billions are going in there, and eventually they're going to Italy. Our tax dollars are going to Italy and Greece and Spain and to Eastern Europe. That's what D66 wants, but that's not what the PVV wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. I call Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a great country that we have built together. We also need to cherish and make that better as far as we are concerned. That is precisely why it is so important that this cabinet invests in elderly care, security, education and infrastructure. Because it doesn't help that the government budget is in order if the nursing home your parents are in is bad. Economic growth is nice, but if you don't feel safe in your neighborhood or on the street, you have something else on your mind. We combine these investments with relief, because we think that people in their wallets should feel that things are getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	That was just my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think this is such a commendable statement by the VVD that I would like to draw particular attention to this: investment in the public sector, in care for the elderly and in infrastructure, of course. How does the VVD feel about the fact that 3.7 billion remain on the shelf of all the important investments promised last year in the budget? They weren't delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	I was just getting started, yeah. I would like to come to that now, because I do have a number of big questions. If we agreed to spend money on Defense, education and security, I think we should do the same. I will put a number of critical questions to the cabinet about this, because we think that is important. We agreed, and that's what you should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Okay, I will come back to that in a moment, because I very much agree with Mrs De Vries. Maybe we'll get to business today!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	I hope that I will be able to satisfy Mr Nijboer with my input, which I shall now proceed with. Mr. Chairman. During the presentation of the 2018 Najaarsnota, there were roaring lyrics. Public finances continue to improve, and this will in principle make a VVD happy. We should not transfer the bill to future generations. We need to get our housekeeping book in order. The 2018 budget surplus is expected to be plus 0.9% of gross domestic product and debt further falls to 52.7% of GDP. This is due to the good economic situation, but also to the expected lower public expenditure. That is, of course, positive. As the economy grows, more people find a job and unemployment decreases. However, I would like to make a comment about this and I should like to address Mr Nijboer. Where lower public expenditure appears to be positive at first sight, what has been agreed is not actually being implemented. The Autumn note shows that in 2018 EUR 3.7 billion was spent less than expected. About 2.2 billion of these are investment funds for Defence and infrastructure. Fortunately, this can be taken to later years. The money for these necessary investments is therefore not gone. However, the VVD also wants the priorities of this cabinet to be implemented quickly and it wants the agreed investments in the public sector to actually take place. The cabinet must ensure that these euros are used in good time, but certainly responsibly and efficiently, so that we also achieve what we have agreed and what we wanted to achieve. Mr. Chairman. What went wrong with these cases? Why are these additional resources apparently planned in those years? You know you can't do that for roads and defense equipment in a few months? This while the Ministry of Finance had a role to play, especially in releasing those funds from the government agreement. Has this taken too long, so there was no time to spend the money? Mr. Chairman. We see that some ministries still have targets to fill in. An example of this is at the Ministry of Education. Not only did this ministry have a significant budget gap at the beginning of the Rutte III cabinet, a legacy of PvdA Minister Bussemaker, but still there are targets, in our view, of EUR 183 million. The VVD wants a clear overview of all the targets of all ministries to be included in the financial documents, and for the next Millions note to be presented a concrete implementation of these targets. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Too often, in the end, the problem is put at the centre of attention and other ministries have to take care of the solutions. Too easy a problem is pushed forward and the account is placed elsewhere. Then the phenomenon of cash slides. Sometimes, unfortunately, they are necessary, because they allow resources for defence and infrastructure to remain available. But it's shifting money from now to the future, to spend it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr. Nijboer is back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	He wasn't too happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	No. Well, I was very pleased, because I thought you had a very good input. You said, "If you promise, you have to live up to it." That's how I know the VVD a bit as a party. Only those last words about Education didn't appeal to me very well. I think you are right that these targets need to be resolved, but they are basically: look for it on the Education budget, just fill in those cuts. While I would say: 1.5 billion will not be taken to the years to come; we can use it to get those targets off the table. Then there is no sword of Damocles hanging over the education and you have a clear overview of how it is filled. Wouldn't that be the best solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	I believe that this cabinet is investing heavily in education: EUR 1.5 billion, and EUR 0.5 billion for research. I think that's important. But I also know Mr Nijboer as someone who knows that you cannot solve structural targets in a budget state with the money that is now left once, because then you will have another problem in the future. So I wouldn't be for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	The problem is that we as Parliament do not know that. I shall come back to that in detail in my own contribution, because if you do not spend 3.7 billion in a budget and you do not even indicate to Parliament which part is incidental and which is structural, then that really does not look like anything. But I'll get back to you on that. But some will be structural and some will be incidental. I will go on to ask Mrs De Vries' argument: can we look at which part is structural, and then use it? I agree with her: you cannot do this with occasional windfalls; you cannot use the ING fine for education, because that makes no sense. Does she agree with me to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	Well, I just think it's up to the Ministry to come up with a solution for that mission right now. I think they should just take that responsibility. They have them, and they've had to fill them out for a long time. So I think the responsibility lies first and foremost there. As I see it now, my estimate is that most of these EUR 3.7 billion are truly occasional. And some are also being pushed forward to the future, because we believe that for defence and infrastructure these investments are simply desperately needed. I am curious to hear the Minister's answer to the question of what part would be structural, but in my view, the vast majority is that what we are going to use for defence and infrastructure in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	I was working on the part about the cash slides. There is another striking example, again, of the Ministry of Education. There is a cash drawer of 15 million euros from 2021 to now for the general media reserve, because in 2018 Star revenue is again disappointing. The deal is, as I said before, a ministry solves its own setbacks, but you actually do that now by borrowing money from the future. Why is this case allowed by the Ministry of Finance and why is this not resolved differently? And how do we know for sure that this slide doesn't pose a problem in the future? And if there really is no other way, why money from 2021, and not from 2019 or 2020? It looks like you're already spending your 2021 salary on a nice vacation, while you only have one year's contract. During the General Financial Reviews I already discussed the poor estimation of the level of the care premium. But we see more poor estimates, for example of the student numbers by the Ministry of Education, and of the WW expenditure by the Ministry of Social Affairs, where we are faced with setbacks. The assessment of tax revenues has also recently been looked at, as there are often large differences there. There is an average prediction error of 3.4% for the year 2017. What action does the Minister intend to take to improve all estimates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yes, that investments in defence and infrastructure have been announced that have not taken place this year, and that they are doing so in 2020 and 2021, you can say something for that. But why doesn't that apply to care? Over the past six years, 9.6 billion have been left on the care framework. That's never meant for care. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	I would also prefer that we just do the expenses for the care. I think we should have quality care. But I also want to do it as cheaply as possible. And I also find it a little easy to say that any underexhaustment, as it is called in technical terms so beautifully, would always be bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	An underexhaustment doesn't have to be bad. There's a lot to save on care. For example, you should stop with the crazy market operation circus or the switching circus that costs baking with money. But that's another debate. There may be money left, but then you should say: then it goes back to the people? Because they are always told: you pay so much to care. But that's never the case. It is used for phasing out the Groninger gas. It is used for the repayment of the state debt and for Hurricane Irma. That can be good spending, but don't tell me the health care premium is. Doesn't Mrs De Vries of the VVD agree that the government is actually doing a little bit of magic with figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mrs Leijten now gives the impression that care is being spent less and less, but I think it is important to point out that this is in no way the case. In this cabinet period we spend 16.5 billion more on care. I think it is important that, in the end, we should be structuralally curbing these costs. You can always look at the occasional returns, but I think it's important that people can still pay for that care in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mrs. Leijten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	Then the VVD and the SP can really find each other, although I think we have quite different solutions. But it matters to me that there is year in, year out of money left on the care framework. We in the Chamber are not allowed to touch it, because it is premium money. But the government puts it in other destinations every time, and it deliberately estimates too high, so that it has a buffer. It's about 9.6 billion in recent years. That's not fair to the people who think they pay so much for care, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	I have just started my piece on the estimates; I really think they should be improved. In the General Financial Reviews, I have already said something about estimating the level of the care premium. I think that on all fronts that should simply be looked at carefully by the Ministry. We need to get much closer to reality than we are now. 'Cause now you're all getting windfalls, or setbacks on other fronts. That's just gotta be better. And that is what I have deliberately asked the Minister. He needs to see how he can make improvements in the estimates. As far as I am concerned, the same applies to care. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to another setback. That is the disappointment of 237 million euros on the inheritance and gift tax in the Autumn note. In the Millions note in September of this year there was also a setback in the inheritance and gift tax. We still think it's a mess. It was already clear that many wrong attacks have also been imposed. People had to wait too long for clarity about their attacks and were in uncertainty for a long time. Where is this mistake now? And what exactly is it about this? Because how can you stack the wrong estimate on the wrong estimate? The Secretary of State for Finance has previously promised that the money that could not be collected would eventually come in. The method of estimation is now being adapted. As far as we are concerned, it has become a magical set of figures. It is no longer possible for the House of Representatives to check whether all the money finally comes in. That must be changed, because the House of Representatives must be able to carry out its controlling role. How is the Minister going to make sure that we can check that the money comes in? I would ask the Minister to respond to that adjustment of the estimate of inheritance tax. For 2019, we have estimated even less revenue, and that is crazy. Indeed, part of the remaining 2017 innings is estimated for 2018, but those innings are also behind. Surely that would mean that there should be more revenue in 2019? And how does the Minister see his own role and that of the Ministry of Finance in the correctness of estimates? Mr. Chairman. Then another windfall in the Navy note, namely at the Tax Office because they do not have to pay any or less RVU tax for the reorganisation. And although, of course, it is not a windfall because the Tax Administration itself imposes that tax and does not receive it, there are also other ministries that are subject to an RVU tax or a fine, such as the Ministry of Defence. That is where it is very hard, because this tax has to be paid because people, as agreed, simply have to stop working sooner. The VVD understands that the Ministry of Defence will object to the RVU tax. What are the odds of that? What financial benefits could this bring in a positive verdict for the Defense Department? When can we be clear about this from the Tax Office? In the General Financial Reviews I have already made a point of the collective burden and expenditure. We must continue to think about reducing collective burdens and increasing people's purchasing power. There is no escape in spending on health and social security, which includes about two thirds of all collective expenditure, because otherwise these expenditures will cut all the room. Even at a time when the economy is growing and unemployment is falling, WW expenditure is rising. Although the main concerns agreements have been concluded, care costs continue to rise by around EUR 16 billion in this cabinet period. The Minister indicated at the General Financial Reviews that he wants to work with his colleagues in Social Affairs and Health to find a solution for the future. The question is what is he going to do in concrete terms in the coming period? Just waiting to see what happens is not an option as far as we're concerned. Finally, Mr President. I understand very well that people are uncertain about the media reports about all the rising costs, while they do not yet have a clear view of their pay slip in January. In any case, there is still a lot of uncertainty for people about their energy bill in 2019. There are a lot of different numbers circulating. We would like the Minister to clarify this in this debate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	Before I give Mrs Leijten the floor, I would like to say something. I did not share the rules with you at the beginning of this debate. I didn't impose a maximum number of interruptions on you. We'll see if you can regulate that for yourself. If that doesn't work, I'll take action. Let's try to do the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	As always, you're just the boss, Mr. Chairman. We don't know exactly how much the energy bill is going up. We've had all kinds of calculations. I think it is good that the VVD here recognises that these calculations have been a farce. What happens to the money that's left this year? 500 million, half a billion, is earmarked for a CO fund because the government sees a fine coming because we are not doing enough to reduce CO. The government therefore reserves money because there is a fine, but does nothing for the people who have a huge bill in mind. I would like to see if there is room at the VVD today to do something with the rest of the surplus, to use that to ease the additional increase in the energy bill for people with, for example, a concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	I don't recognize myself in the SP terminology about the numbers. I think that the figures need to be clarified. The SP has to tell the whole story. You are now saying that the energy bill is rising, but on the other hand there are all kinds of measures and plans we have set out in the Tax Plan to reduce the burden on people. Eventually, it turns out there's a plus in purchasing power for people. You can talk people into a lot of fear about certain increases, but then you also have to tell the other story and tell them where the burden relief is for those people. I'm sorry the SP sometimes forgets that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	How does this load relief work out? High incomes will be significantly reduced and the lowest incomes will have to do with an increase in supplements in order to keep up with purchasing power. We see that growth is less high and that the energy bill is higher than proposed in the Millions Note. Knowing that and knowing that people are really affected by that energy bill, already now, but certainly next year, can you also say that you are not only using the surplus in the budget to reserve money so that the government can pay a fine later, but also to compensate people for the energy costs? Why doesn't the VVD go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	I find it a bit special but also a bit easy that the SP is now proposing to use occasionally money to do something about people's purchasing power. You yourself voted against the Tax Plan, which contained this reduction. Then I think it is a little harsh that you should come up with an occasional recovery operation at this time. You could have just voted in favour of the tax relief in the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mrs. Leijten, you can count to two, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	Yeah, but I'm sorry that I'm asking a question twice that won't be answered. I would like to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	Energy costs are rising, and perhaps more than we know so far. We are sure that pensions will not be indexed this year and next year. Neither did the years after that. But even worse, you just said we shouldn't frighten each other. I'm sticking to the facts. The facts are that next year the coverage of pension funds will remain below 104%. At least that's what I'm afraid of. At least that is the case on 31 December. My question to you is: if those reductions in pensions for 5 to 10 million participants, young and old, remain above the market, why do you not support our own initiative proposal? I will defend that initiative here after Christmas. It is not only the increase in the energy bill; 5 to 10 million Dutch people, young and old, also know that the chances of their pension being reduced are increasing. We have to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	Clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	The interest rate is now at the lowest point of this year, and the stock market is below 500.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	First of all, to take away the picture that there would be no progress for seniors and older people: there is, of course, a positive story in the purchasing power picture. And, of course, we would have liked to do something about the reductions in pensions. Before that, we were also very far away with a pension agreement. In our view, this would have prevented some of it. I am very sorry that the other partners finally said 'no' to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	In fact, Mrs De Vries is already saying what I would have liked to ask in the second instance. The Prime Minister wanted to take the discounts off the table, something we've been wanting for a long time. Can you explain why he then, if he does not get his way with that pension agreement, says for a system that we also do not want to say: then I'll just leave that threat reduction hanging over the market again, because I didn't get my way? Why do you not want to join us in this Chamber and support our initiative proposal to remove those discounts now? There's gonna be elections, too. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	First of all, because the 50PLUS proposal also affects, for example, young people and those who do not yet have a pension. That does not seem to us to be a wise story. We don't want to push that problem through. When it comes to the pension agreement, I think that the parties involved in it from the cabinet would have liked to have concluded that agreement. I also think that there has been a very long way to go to repealing measures which were not specifically linked to the pension agreement. My perception is not that the cabinet is pouting now. I am very sorry that the trade unions have said 'no' to that very strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Van Rooijen, we'll do it in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mrs De Vries said about the energy bill that she actually wants to know what is going on from the Minister. I want to help her a little bit. De Telegraaf also paid a lot of attention to this last Saturday. I just have four examples of people who e-mailed me. Someone says: my monthly amount is now €108, which will be €211 next year. With another it is now €67 and next year it will be €120. Another one is now €150 and next year it will be €345. And finally, it is now €200 for someone and next year it will be €296. Does Mrs De Vries think that this kind of increase can be justified from 45%, 50% to 100%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	I think I have also asked for clarity about those figures for energy. There are all people who contradict each other. So I think it is important that we clarify this. But also in this case I think it is important to tell the whole story. Of course, you can list all kinds of increases on your own, and then you get a really weird list. But you also have to tell the other side of the story, where people also have to deal with the fact that, for example, part of that energy tax is returned through a reduction in income tax. You have to tell the whole story; you don't just have to highlight a small part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	I fully acknowledge that. Of course, income tax goes down. The coalition voted for that. But Mrs De Vries herself brought up the energy bills. VAT also goes up. Mrs De Vries has the right to say the same. My question to Mrs De Vries is: do you already regret the increase of €51 per household that you put into the Tax Plan? Do you regret that already, if you are so concerned about these energy bills now? You did it yourself. Amendments have been tabled, as GroenLinks has done. Do you regret that already and will you now come back to that? That would be wise. It's better halfway back than all the way down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	I always like it, but you stick to that one little piece. You'll have to tell that other story, too, that we'll refund it through income tax. That's not what you call it. I find it very special, also from you, because you were not in favour of the Tax Plan and the measures it contained, that you now blame the others for having done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	The latter cannot be said to me, because the SGP voted in favour of the Tax Plan. So I think: then I am also legitimized to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u52	Sure. Otherwise, too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u53	Of course. I have just heard Mrs Leijten stand up for lower incomes and say that higher incomes are doing well. I also, of course, hear Mr Van Rooijen stand up for the people with a pension. But I miss one group, a very important one, the middle incomes. Let's say that the energy bill is going to be very disappointing, because those amounts that were just mentioned by the Labour Party, I also received from several people last weekend. We'll hear about it from the cabinet. But let's say it's really bad for middle income. Of course, they have a bit of purchasing power improvement, lower taxes, but that's where the rest of them all end up. And they don't have all kinds of surcharges and stuff, they just fall out. So let's say it's really disappointing. Does Mrs De Vries think we should make up for a bit there? Because those are the people who get out of bed early every day, work very hard and really keep the Netherlands going. And that's the group I really lie a little awake from sometimes. My question is: is that Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u54	I don't lie awake so often, but if I'm awake from something, I'd do the same because I think that a lot of it actually ends up with those middle groups and because you can also see that they're having a hard time. I think it is important that we have therefore also chosen to ensure that those groups receive relief. When it comes to the future, we always look again in August at the purchasing power of different groups. We will certainly also look at this group because we think it is very important, because they are indeed just building the Netherlands, making it better and working very hard, to the Netherlands but also for their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u55	I'm happy with the answer. I note that if there is anything going on right away, the VVD and the SGP will in any case move together to keep this group alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u56	I appreciate Mrs De Vries' questions to the cabinet to clarify the energy bill. We know that many parties in this Chamber and also in society are concerned about this rising energy bill. In the end, however, it is a question of achieving concrete results here as well. Well, we tried that together at the Tax Plan. From this, I also know that the VVD is open to achieving concrete results and making concrete proposals and also to achieving a shift from households to businesses. Unfortunately, that was not possible at the time. But does Mrs De Vries agree with me that we should continue to try this and that we should actually instruct the cabinet to compensate for this energy bill for households in the spring note?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think that, for example, in the climate agreement too, we consider the commitment of the VVD to be important that it is also affordable and manageable for citizens. But here again goes towards GroenLinks that you also have to tell the whole story, that we also compensate in income tax and that because of that people have less left. I am not in favour of doing that in spring paper but blindly. I believe that we should always consider the consequences of the measures, including the climate agreement. We'll have to look at that in due course, if that plan is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u58	The climate agreement is, of course, ultimately about 2030 and we now have a problem. That was also the combination of the measures in the Tax Plan, and we also get the Urgenda ruling. So this is really a problem that we need to solve in the short term. At the same time, I don't think we're gonna be able to do it now, in the yearbook. First of all, we need to clarify the financial consequences of the setbacks. But I do think, especially in view of the commitment of the VVD, that there may well be an assignment for the cabinet to look at how exactly this should be done in the spring paper. It could also be an assignment to the cabinet to see if we can compensate for this household energy bill. Otherwise, Mrs De Vries' questions on the energy bill are a little obligatory, because then she wants to get a picture of the problem, but not propose concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u59	I always appreciate that GroenLinks is very constructive and willing to move, but I think this call is a little hypocritical. When I look at the GroenLinks election programme, it talks about structural 8 billion burdens and an increase for gas in the rate of the first disc. If that ends up somewhere, it's with the citizens. Then I think it's a little cheap, then I'm softly expressing that Mr Snels is suddenly keeping this story: 8 billion burdens!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mrs De Vries is always telling the whole story, but then she also has to tell the whole story of the GroenLinks election programme, because the purchasing power figures were a lot better at GroenLinks than at the VVD. That was even true for households of two modes. Even the hardworking Dutchman with a really good salary improved more at GroenLinks than at the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u61	I think Mr Snels really needs to tell the whole story. What GroenLinks has done very cleverly is to plan the increase in charges not in this cabinet period, but after that time. This increase does not count for the purchasing power figures for this cabinet period, but for the period after that. However, that is a huge blow when it comes to increasing the burden and thus the cost of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u62	No, Mr. Snels, I understand you're feeling very challenged. Perhaps you can say something about your election programme in your own contribution, but I have given you the floor three times. I want to be consistent, because I also told Mr Van Rooijen that he was not allowed to go again. Now it's end of practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr. Chairman. The whole story of the VVD always turns out to be half the story. The Navy Note. In the Autumn note, total expenditure ceilings fall to 3.7 billion. That's a lot of money. That's part of a long-term trend. You can look at this in different ways, from a financial, a political and a social reality. My speech has been drawn up along these lines. I'm starting with financial reality. The asymmetry of the budgetary rules ensures that a prudent fiscal policy is pursued. These rules prevent those punitive spending colleagues in the cabinet, or all those unscrupulous MPs here in the Chamber, from spending money on new policies. I say that somewhat ironic, but wise budgetary policy is important. GroenLinks prefers the cabinet: prudent financial policy is also possible with a different distribution between burdens for large companies and expenditures in particular. But even within the framework of the Start note and the budgetary rules, questions can be asked about the Court's budget right. Then I'm gonna go into technique a little bit more. Let me mention two examples which make it difficult for the Chamber to use budget law. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the recurring discussion on the definition of what are now legal obligations. The House, Mr Sneller, and I were rapporteurs recently in the context of the budget letter..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister has undertaken to look explicitly at this in the definition of these obligations. I've got two more sightings. It also appears that expenditure is legally compulsory every year. How is that even possible? Isn't that just a reason to look at the definition? Another observation is that the draft budget on Princess Day uses 1 January of financial year 2019 as the reference date for the amount of legal commitments. Thus, in the budget, expenditure is entered as legal commitments, whereas in reality it is only in January. Here, I believe, the Chamber can have more room to apply the budget law. Does the Minister agree with me and does he want to return to this in his commitments? The second example from the technique is the in=terminal. It's even more important. In the last spring, the Minister filled in 225 million of the commission in the spring note. In the written replies, the Minister acknowledges that these 225 million could have been used under the budgetary rules to cover amendments. I remember a discussion myself on an amendment on practical learning, together with Mrs Leijten, which was not recommended by the Minister, partly because of the coverage. Now there remains the feeling that the Minister has been very cautious, by completing the full mission of 957 million at Princess' Day. We have a strange contradiction of 3.7 billion euros that could not be spent in 2018, while there were wishes for both the coalition and the opposition to change policies and, above all, to address bottlenecks in the public sector. Now, in the yearbook, we can't change policies in the last two weeks. But this discussion is important for the discussion in the Spring paper. Does the Minister wish to clarify explicitly in the Spring Paper what scope the Chamber has to adjust policy? Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the political reality. Budgetary rules are sacred unless there is a political desire to change them or to apply them creatively. In spring 2018 the cabinet had to look for cover for the gas decision. Depleting gas benefits had to be solved under the expenditure framework. That space was found by capturing task-setting under-exhaustment on the different member budgets. Such a task-setting under-utilisation is further uncovered if it is not specified how it is to be completed. How does this system relate to amendments or motions of the Chamber requiring cover? Does the Minister think it would be enough if we were to cover our plans in spring paper by booking a task-setting under-exhaustment elsewhere? Does the Minister agree that a political problem had to be resolved here and that in this case the budgetary rules are less important? This is ultimately at the expense of the room for expenditure in education, care or elsewhere. In fact, the same applies to the budget reserve for climate policy. 500 million from the under-utilisation 2018 is now reserved for two years of climate policy. Outside the frameworks for the next two years, because already processed in 2018. How does this actually fit in with budgetary policy? Then there is the social reality, because that is what we, as politicians, have to worry about in the end. The example of the budget reserve CO and, in fact, the solutions for turning off the gas tap mean that we should be able to deal with budgetary rules prudently, but creatively. The cabinet is busy with the climate agreement. It is a bit the week of climate policy. Soon the climate law will be defended in this Chamber and we still hope that a climate agreement will be reached this week. We also know about the challenges of the Urgenda pronunciation. At the same time, we also know that in both short-term and longer-term policies, fair burden-sharing is important, including between households and businesses. I tried to correct that in the Tax Plan. I'm afraid that didn't work out. But it does not relieve us of looking at solutions, because climate policy support is undermined by an increasing energy bill if large polluters do not make their contribution. It is in that context that I have asked all these questions, about the obligations, the windfalls and the in=terminal. If we have all the windfalls in view, if we know the precise challenges of Urgenda, if we see what the energy bill means for household purchasing power, we need to be able to adjust policies in spring paper and compensate for households' energy bills. Does the Minister agree with me and would he like to prepare for measures in the spring note to compensate households for an increasing energy bill next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you. I call Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago, employees of Lehman Brothers in New York walked out of the office with a box full of personal belongings. The iconic picture of the beginning of the banking crisis, a crisis in which the middle incomes paid the heavy price. But did we learn from it? An important cause affecting financial stability is the unmanageability of debt. Today, global debt is more than twice as high as we all make on this earth in a year. Due to this level of debt, little is needed to lose confidence in our system. The manageability of debt by governments, companies and households is therefore essential. It is clear that the Minister has a responsibility when it comes to the finances of the Empire, but how does he look at the debt burden of the private sector? The total debt ratio of the private sector, households and companies amounted to 218.8% of gross domestic product in the Netherlands in 2017. This puts the debt ratio in the Netherlands well above the ceiling of 133% set by the European Commission. Does the Minister agree with the European Commission that private sector debt above 133% of GDP is a macroeconomic risk? What state measures contribute to promoting debt relief in the private sectors? Mr. Chairman. The CDA agrees with the choice of this cabinet to use the under-scaping to build buffers, not only because of the Brexit or financial malpractice in Italy and France, but also because of the high level of debt in the private sectors. The current Minister of Finance therefore responds to the call made by his predecessor, who, in his book De Eurocrisis, states that in the current good years, bad years must be reserved for those that will inevitably come. Let's look beyond this year's downfalls. The cabinet has a very ambitious recovery and investment programme. There is extra money for the restoration of the neglected armed forces, but also for extra staff in nursing care. There is almost 1.6 billion going to education and structural additional money for public administration will be provided to enable municipalities to cope with the decentralised tasks. In addition, the cabinet reduces the burden on middle income and small and medium-sized enterprises. Anyone who sees such a program for this cabinet period understands that the cabinet chooses to use the sub-subsidiaries to build buffers. But does the Minister urge his French colleague to allow the financial reins to be celebrated there? Is the overall debt burden of governments and private sector discussed within the IMF? This imbalance affects financial stability globally. Mr. Chairman. I want to zoom in on the state budget now. In addition to the ambitions of the government agreement, this cabinet has decided to stop the gas extraction in Groningen in the long term. Quite rightly, given the immense suffering that the inhabitants of Groningen are suffering. In addition, the challenges come from the climate tables. My group does not want climate costs to be unbalanced, particularly in the case of lower middle incomes. In the Autumn note we read that the Cabinet reserves 500 million for any additional CO reduction measures. This reserve shall be linked for 2019 and 2020 to Article 4 of the EZK budget. The withdrawal shall be subject to prior approval by Finance. The CDA supports the idea that money is being set aside for climate change. The whole effort is to reduce CO with support from our residents. Does the Minister have a framework for how he intends to assess the plans before he releases the money? If so, what does that framework look like? The Autumn note shows a considerable underexhaustment. An important cause of this under-exhaustment is the Infrastructure Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u66	I have a question about the energy bill, because I saw Mr Buma with a yellow hoist. It's the CDA's heart. The 500 million seems to be mainly reserved for compensation to companies. Shouldn't this also be reserved, at least in part, within the 500 million or otherwise, for people, for households with their energy bills and who have to invest in a sustainable home? Shouldn't money be reserved for that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u67	I read in the plans that additional measures are being considered that are cost-effective. In my opinion, this does not include the provision that it is intended only for companies. I am curious to see the framework outlined by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u68	If climate change is improved in order to be able to use resources more effectively, then we are not opposed to this in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u69	That's all there is to it. To be honest, given the firm position that the CDA has taken here, I would have expected it to make a little more demands for some of that money or some of that money to go to the people too, and for example not to agree to a €51 higher tax on the energy bill next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u71	Because, of course, that's what people are already seeing, and that's when the climate package gets back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u72	Yes. I see that every time you mention that measure, which is €51. I therefore think it is appropriate to point out that, of course, there will also be a reduction in income tax. So in that sense, when we look at that, we find it in balance. The other measures we are talking about, I believe, are much more of a policy that we need to see in the longer term. I really think it is very important that this is in balance. I also see, I think, a little less sharp than Mr Nijboer, the difference between companies and people. It's just that people also work at companies. It is also clear from the accounts of the increases in companies that they ultimately affect the people's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u73	That is of course a nice frame: companies get a higher tax and they calculate that one-on-one. It can also lead to a cleaner production process, thereby giving them a better competitive position vis-à-vis their competitors and thus keeping the price low. Anyway, that doesn't fit in the picture, of course. About Buma. The bill must not be placed unilaterally with the people. We see that next year's energy costs for households are increasing more than for companies, apart from all the tax cuts that you have to ask yourself are they fair. But doesn't the CDA think that if you see that energy bill rising harder than was proposed, especially with the Millions note, we can now say: there is surplus, we can give people a once-in-a-lifetime concession to ease that pain?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u74	This is almost a repetition of the answer I gave to Mr Nijboer. Also here... A measure for 2019 has been taken as part of a whole purchasing power package and is part of it. At the same time, we are also talking about a substantial reduction in the burden on middle incomes in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u75	Those purchasing power cards had to be adjusted within two weeks. Now we see that the assumed increase in energy is also wrong. So you can also say: we now see what the result is and we now compensate for it. But I just find that every time your party leader is on TV, it's Buma for the stage again. He's against profit payments and the bankruptcy of hospitals. We are making a proposal, the CDA is voting against it. He's against a higher energy bill for the people. Our proposal, the CDA is voting against this. That's not going well for much longer, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u76	I hear here more of a comment or reflection than a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u77	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u78	The Autumn note shows a considerable underexhaustment. An important cause of this under-exhaustment is the Infrastructure Fund. Year after year, infra promises to work with overprogramming. This year too, however, delays. Does the autonomous delays mean that projects are going to be more expensive than they were previously budgeted? And is the possibility to take resources indefinitely to subsequent years perhaps not to feel the urgency of completing projects quickly and in good time? Under-utilisation at the Empire has a direct effect on the budget of municipalities. Due to the step-on-step afsystematiek, under-exhaustation means less revenue by adjusting the accres of municipalities. In 2019, we understand from the Najaarsnota, that local authorities will also get less. Is it true that the resources of the Defence and Infrastructure Funds can be fully taken over over the next few years? And does that mean that in the years after 2018 and 2019 the Gemeentefonds gets extra money, so extra is pushed up? Mr. Chairman. A letter from the Minister of Education came to the Chamber stating that the estimates are state of the art. Each time it appears that a slight deviation from the estimate has a significant effect on the education budget. The Minister, together with his colleagues in Education, would look at how more peace can be built into the budget. Can the Minister inform us about this? And how does he look at a kind of flexible part of the budget in education, which allows for a fall-back in the estimate without leading directly to budget cuts elsewhere in the education budget? Mr. Chairman. The number of benefits is higher than expected. At the end of last week, the Minister indicated that next year's economic growth is likely to be lower than previously estimated. And this was actually confirmed by the CPB this morning. Does this year's higher spending on WW mean that there is a change in the economy? And how does the Minister rhyme with the higher spending on WW with staff shortages in care and construction? There's plenty of work, isn't there? Mr. Chairman. On two themes I would like to dwell a little longer. Firstly, climate change. This is not only a task for the Dutch government, but also financial markets can and want to contribute. We were therefore pleased with the action of Bernice Notenboom this year to visit the North Pole with investors. But in order to be able to invest green, there must also be financial products. We are grateful to the Minister for his speedy work on green bonds. The Netherlands will be the first triple A country to issue green bonds. The Minister states in his letter on the issue of green bonds that it is still difficult to determine which projects the green bond fits for. The Empire doesn't fund much of these kinds of projects. Is it an idea to ask local authorities and public enterprises to ask them to finance themselves through green bonds? The CDA would like to see a full market for green financial products created. In it, the green bond is only one of the financial products. A DNB report shows that there are a number of barriers to the market for green financial products, such as maturity mismatch, the small scale of projects and the availability of venture capital. Partly because of this many green start-ups are beached. Does the Minister share the CDA's desire to stimulate the market for sustainable financing and investments? Secondly, I do not call it the use of surcharges. During the General Financial Reviews I tabled a motion together with the VVD to ensure that older people are helped in applying for the care and rent allowance. One in six elderly people does not apply for a rent allowance, and one in ten does not charge care although they are entitled to it. An article by the Dagblad van het Noorden shows that housing corporations in Drenthe, in cooperation with municipalities, have actively started working to help tenants with the right to a care and rent allowance. Result: the people went to pay their rent better and some housing corporations could even reduce the rents. What's the progress on the motion? And does the Minister see opportunities to reduce the non-use of surcharges together with housing corporations, health insurance companies and municipalities? Older organisations in the past received direct support from the Tax Administration in training their volunteers who helped their members fill out tax forms. As of 2016, this support has stopped. The support that volunteers are currently receiving is only through digital training. A lot of voluntary tax form-fillers are pulling out. They need personal contact with teachers and want to exchange experiences among themselves. Is the Minister willing to support older people's organisations in the training of tax returns through personal contact with tax authorities' teachers rather than just digital support? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, I am very curious about the answers to questions about the inheritance and gift tax. Here too, we can see that it is a tough and complex issue. But we actually hope that the answers to the questions of Aukje de Vries can also give us some insight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you. Then the floor is for Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr. Chairman. What we heard all along during the crisis was that we all had to contribute. Everywhere, savings were made and because of this hard austerity, the Netherlands ended up in a double crisis. We did worse than other euro area countries when it comes to wages and when it comes to growth. But then the crisis was over and profits increased, but wages didn't, and now the highlight is over. Does that mean that we will not have that desired and desired wage increase anymore? Who really benefits from this economic prosperity? Because wages in the Netherlands are lagging behind, wage increases are less than anticipated. But we also see that the Dutch are poorer than before the crisis. Only countries such as Greece, Cyprus, Ireland, Italy and Croatia are doing worse. We're really dangling at the bottom. But with wage growth, too. In the EU it is 2.5% and in the Netherlands it is only 1.8%. How's it going now that we see it's over its peak? There has been no wage growth, no wage increases as we all wish, and now there is the tide: we have to take care of the budget a little bit. Does the Minister predict that the wage increases announced by the CPB, which are included in the purchasing power bills, will disappear like snow before the sun? Today we are talking about the state of the budget for 2018, and that is what we call the Autumn Note. But we're just gonna see what's been proposed to spend, what's been spent, what we thought was coming in and what's come in. And we can say it looks nice. There's money left. Purchasing power would also go up. Well, it was a little different this year than predicted, and the blackbirds started a little bit. The Christian Union immediately said it was due to the PvdA policy and you name it. What will be the status of the budget for 2019 next year? Are we having the same discussion about purchasing power again? I'm afraid so. People at home fear it, too. They just got their energy bill. Mr. Nijboer mentioned a few examples of an increase of 50% to 100%, and in some people even more. People are now also getting their new care premium, with a significant increase. We know that the daily groceries will be more expensive by 1 January. But the taxes for multinationals are definitely going down and how much your tax cut will be due to the government's plans is very uncertain. People are sick of it. They really understand very well that average images of purchasing power do not say anything about their position. So it's a sham policy. I have already asked the Minister during the financial considerations whether we can not come up with fairer purchasing power figures, where we do not put VAT somewhere in inflation, but simply really look at what that increase means for the daily, not to be missed messages. Can all incomes actually bear that? But just be honest about the increase in energy costs. This year, they were misestimated. We already received a note from the CPB before the financial considerations that it was not sufficiently included in the same purchasing power figures. And now we find out that energy costs are rising faster than proposed. And then the climate measures have yet to come. I saw Mr. Samsom on TV last Monday. He was going to explain that it is very good that everyone can borrow personally for the sustainability of his home. What does the Minister think of that? Is that really an individual assignment, that everyone should get a new banking product, take on a new loan, or is there still a responsibility for the government? Is there a responsibility for the government to shape the sustainability of houses as well? Or do we just have to figure it all out? If the crisis is, they come to us, everyone has to contribute, but when the climate needs to be improved, we can sort it all out ourselves. We do not consider that to be a form of climate justice. It didn't make me happy. But how does the Minister look at that? Mr. Chairman. There's money left, back on the care board. I have just said it in an interruption to Mrs De Vries: 9.6 billion has been left over from care in the last six years. Then the government says: we pay so much to care, we have to cut back. But if there's a surplus, it doesn't go back to the people. Then it's used to pay off the government debt. Then it's used for Groninger gas. Then it's used for Hurricane Irma. That's fine spending, but don't tell people they pay so much for care. And there's a little more. Because the government can do whatever it wants with that Budgetary Framework Care. It may go back to the general budget, or it may go back to the incidental expenditure. But the Chamber is not allowed to do anything about it, according to the system that we should not do anything about premium money. I would like to propose to the Minister that, if the government is allowed to deal with this premium-financed income so freely, the Chamber should be allowed to do so. That would be so fair in terms of budget law. Year in, year out, we ask that what is left of the care framework be reserved for future expenditure on care. This is not possible, but the government is already reserving for 2020 and 2021 the unissued defence investments for weapons and roads, for infrastructure. And she's making a CO fund of 500 million, half a billion, for the next two years. Is that because there's a fine coming? Is that because the government foresees that it will soon have to pay a fine because the Netherlands is not doing enough to reduce CO emissions? In itself, it is wise that you make a reservation for yourself, so that you do not have to look at the year when that fine comes: what are we going to cover it with? But if that's possible for the government, for a solid government budget, why can't we do it for people? There is money left and our proposal is to give everyone, all incomes up to €75,000, a concession in the energy bill. That costs a billion dollars and it does not compensate for everything that comes to people, but it indicates that the government is not only there for its own state budget or for large companies, but also for ordinary people. It's time for that justice. Because if the economy is going well, then the people must also be well. We haven't seen that lately. We also see that the public sector is on fire. The rule of law squeaks and creaks. We know about the teachers. In education there is even talk of a four-day school week, because they can't get it around. This minister says: I prefer to relieve the state debt, rather than pay off a social debt that is now building up in society. He's gonna care if he doesn't do anything about it. And I think that is very unwise, not only of this minister, but of the whole government. You shouldn't just be there for multinationals, you should be there for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u81	Thank you, Mrs Leijten. I call Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u82	I'm a buddy smaller than Mrs. Leijten, so I'm gonna adjust the speaker chair. Mr. Chairman. Solid economic growth, rising purchasing power, lower unemployment in all age groups, lower debt: that is a good starting point to prepare for the future, so that we can cope with the turbulent times that are emerging. We see the Brexit in March, an Italian budget clash and Trump who still has the illusion that trade wars are cheap and easy to win. Nationalism and populism threaten to hit the Netherlands hard with a direct right. Because we owe our prosperity to cooperation with other countries and international trade. And that's harsh, of course. But wishful thinking isn't gonna help us. So we must not delay, but today we must create the conditions to ensure our prosperity in the future. This can be done, among other things, by using our money smartly, for education, still the best investment in the future, and for sustainability. For moving the bill to the future, or "rent mastery" to speak in the words of this minister, is not only about the sovereign debt, but also about how we leave the world as a whole. And when those risks that I have just mentioned become reality, we will soon need our buffers and experience shows that we will soon be out of buffers. In the Financial Reviews, I therefore called on the Minister to think beyond those buffers. Now think about reforms that will make the economy more resilient. Because we will certainly need them when there is an economic crisis, but they can come in handy anyway. The Minister only embraced it halfway, and I regret that, because we will soon have to take the right steps under pressure. Maybe today I can seduce him to that intimate embrace of my proposal that I was hoping for. The Minister for Social Affairs, following the motion by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma of the VVD, sets an example by identifying what measures he can take when it is economically difficult to keep people in work as well as possible. I think that's wise, because an evacuation plan is made before the fire breaks out, and not during it. I therefore ask this Minister once again: now get to work on an ambitious reform plan, which we can take back together if the economic situation is not right in the future. Mr. Chairman. After years of talking mainly about global warming, we're finally gonna do something. Later today, this Chamber completes the treatment of the Climate Act, where I believe 118 seats are already represented in Box K. Later this week we expect the climate agreement with concrete measures. Ein-de-lijk! That is how I see the Minister, for various reasons. In advance, the cabinet has already set aside 500 million euros. The Minister of Finance keeps his finger on the wrist to ensure that it is used as efficiently as possible. I think that's wise. It is about achieving as much reduction in CO emissions as possible for that money. I have more doubts about the idea that 'if expenditure falls, the remainder will be returned to the treasury'. Because how realistic is it that the 500 million is enough to make Paris, I ask the Minister. Of course, doing nothing is much more expensive. Scientists have already calculated that limiting global warming to 1.5°C can save tens of thousands of billions worldwide. The US Congress has also had this specifically investigated for the United States. Their conclusion was also that pre-investment in order to prevent such damage is much cheaper than afterwards trying to limit its impact. For the US, the climate crisis could cost up to 2.5% of their national income by the end of this century. Has the Minister made such a calculation for the Netherlands? And if he doesn't, is he willing to put that in the picture? It was referred to earlier: the Permanent Chamber of Finance has asked to focus on the basis of estimates this year in the annual reports. That is not for nothing, because I am saying to Mr Slootweg, who is not in the Chamber at the moment, that a small deviation from that estimate can have major financial consequences, for example on the education budget, where a positive development in the real world will lead to pupils, young people who are studying longer and graduating faster, which will be a setback for that paper budget. This Minister has been studying a solution with his Education colleagues since spring. And now the new financial year is at hand and I would like to hear from him whether there is any white smoke. How does he look at the idea of setting up an equalization fund, for example, to cope with these fluctuations, these random deviations from the estimates? Mr. Chairman. Where some budgets suffer from deficits due to the success of their policies, or the success of pupils, other budgets are left with money. With two months to go, the Autumn note had 4.2 billion under-exhaustment. Sometimes that's nicely taken away, sometimes that's just a shame. More than a quarter of that underutilization is with the DOD. Certainly against that background, last Friday, I was rather surprised by the statements made by the Minister of Defence. It actually seemed to have already spent some unknown, perhaps upcoming extra space, which could become available on the Spring note, and she had a whole shopping list there. I'd like to hear from this minister how to see it. After all, as Minister of Finance, I expect him to make sure that the decision-making process in the spring paper is also fully balanced. Then let's go to the D.O.D. again. In the Autumn note, 60 million is used, if I understand it correctly, to replace the service cars every two years instead of every four years. I suppose I don't quite understand that, so I'd like to get an explanation from the Minister. Defense has the privilege of allowing her to take her budget endlessly. That's not the case with legal aid. That is why another 12 million of that budget is going to the treasury, while we have previously exchanged it, and the Van der Meer Committee has made it quite clear that there are setbacks. In the spring note, I was given the undertaking that the Minister would consult with his colleague for Legal Protection. I'd like to hear what came out of it. I see Mr Slootweg again in the Chamber; he has missed something! In any case, we have understood that there will be a new system of legal aid payments, while maintaining it within a certain framework. When exactly do these rules enter into force? Mr. Chairman. I ask, along with a number of colleagues who also mentioned this, for a sharp look at VWS. Care is one of the largest items in the budget. It is expected that this post will continue to grow harder than the economy, thus putting an ever stronger stamp on our impact. At the same time, we see that money remains there year by year. Can the Minister make it clear which part of it is structural and whether this means that we really need to adjust the growth path that is now in the figures and adjust it downwards? Or, if not, how do we ensure that the VWS budget is sustainable? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We met this minister this year as someone who likes to hit, in the boxing ring and outside. Rocky said it: it's not so much about how hard you hit yourself, it's about how hard you can get hit, how hard you can collect and still move forward. The same Rocky didn't trust a lucky hit himself. He prepared himself well: hours in the rain, on long stairs or, as in Rocky IV, in the freezing cold in the snow. The minister feels him coming: that's how we get back to Amundsen. The Minister can choose where he gets the inspiration from, as long as he prepares the Netherlands well to overcome the next setback and make progress possible. It's the result that matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u83	Thank you. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister on the adoption yesterday of the Millions Note and the Tax Plan in the Senate. The Tax Plan was adopted by a minimum majority, with the SGP and the Independent Senate Group. Both were also adopted with minimal amendments. I wish it was the last time this happened, but we'll see it next year. Nevertheless, it is the main task of the Secretary of State and the Minister, so a parliamentary congratulation is in order. I put the Autumn note and the Millions note side by side with the Tax Plan. It characterizes the cabinet. The 4 billion for large business is in; the profit tax has been reduced by 4 billion. I thought, "What's that gonna be?" And the Senate voted in favour yesterday. At the same time, this year alone, 3.7 billion in public investment remains on the shelf. I want to make that contrast clear here today, because the 3.7 billion would go somewhere. The VVD also emphasised this. That 3.7 billion would go to care for the elderly, infrastructure, defense. I also refer to the windfalls at VWS. They are explicitly mentioned. There are waiting lists at the ggz, psychiatric health care. It is also about the general practitioners, the district nurses. They all got less money than they promised, while there were big problems. The real question is, how is that possible? It is not that there are no problems or waiting lists or that there are no people who want to do anything about it. Look, I'm very much in favour of drug takers, because we'll give less money to pharmaceuticals. But these are really serious problems. The same applies to education, infrastructure and defence. Mr. Chairman. In the debate on the Millions Note, the General Financial Reviews, I pointed out: Minister, this is not going well; you promised something, but you are not making it true. It was 2.9 billion at the time. The problem has only gotten bigger. It's gone up to 3.7 billion in the last few months. How could that have happened? The whole Chamber pointed it out to you back then. I also hear critical colleagues now saying that you are not fulfilling your promises as a cabinet. That's not a good thing. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know which part of that 3.7 billion is incidental.......................................................................................................................................................................................... The Chamber is entitled to that. We are co-legislators; we are allowed to table amendments. Mrs De Vries was right to say that if Mr Nijboer, the PvdA, wants to reserve structural money, this must be covered in a structural way. The problem is that we now have a pot of 3.7 billion and as a parliament we have no idea what is occasional and what is structural. It can't be, and it's never happened before. The Minister should simply give this to Parliament. There's also an estimate to make of it. If you don't make it to the long-term defence budget this year, you'll have a long-term structural budget. It's being deployed, and that's being explained. This also applies to some windfalls and some setbacks. An analysis can be made of this. An ING fine is incidental in any case. I think it really sucks that we have not received a decent answer to many questions from colleagues. This makes it difficult for us to table amendments which are structural or occasional. Mr. Chairman. One thing can certainly be used, namely the space that remains this year, part of that 3.7 billion, for incidental space. That's exactly what the Cabinet does. For the climate agreement, the cabinet reserves EUR 500 million. My prediction is that this is mainly used to compensate companies. It is also on the budget article of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy and not on that of Social Affairs where purchasing power policy takes place. Together with my group chairman, Mr Asscher, I have tabled an amendment to make available not only the 500 million for companies, but also to reserve 500 million in exactly the same way and with exactly the same method as the Cabinet is applying to compensate people for the climate transition and to do so in a fair way. We've seen the energy bill. One group makes more comments on this today than the other, but in the public debate I have actually seen all the group chairmen come along. Mr Buma was waving a yellow shirt and Mr Segers had reserved a whole front page of the Volkskrant to say that this tax reduction is really very fair because it comes to the lowest incomes, while he had just voted in favour of limiting that tax reduction. Speaking of credibility. I therefore expect the support of several parties for this proposal, because it concerns everyone. The climate agreement has not even been introduced yet, and that account is already rising. Think about what's gonna come next. So I have covered this well, just as the Minister did. I am curious about the reaction of the Minister and the coalition parties to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u85	Excuse me, I was admiring your amendment. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u86	First of all, a small correction: the emphasis on Economic Affairs and Climate. The emphasis there is on climate. As I see it in the Navy Note, other ministries can also make use of it. I think it is entirely in Mr Nijboer's head that that would be for companies. In order to properly assess Mr Nijboer's amendment, the following question: will the climate agreement and the support of the PvdA be made dependent on the adoption of this amendment? I read that in the paper this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u87	The PvdA's support for the climate agreement depends on whether people can experience it justly. So if the bills are all transferred to people, what the cabinet is doing now, and businesses are being spared, whatever the cabinet does, then the PvdA cannot possibly support a climate agreement. It can't be! You already see what's happening in one year; you need to figure out what's coming next. I find that unfair. We have also tabled and supported amendments in the Financial Reviews, and we are doing so again today. If the coalition continues to refuse to see that and calls out in the newspaper: oh, oh, oh, oh, the lowest incomes do not come along and the middle income gets stuck; and then the bill goes down there, explicitly with laws and choices, then we will not support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u88	To sum up, no, it does not depend on the amendment. Mr Nijboer takes my colleagues and their group chairmen into account what they say in the newspaper, but what I read in the newspaper this morning from Mr Nijboer's group chairman is not so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u89	You're explaining it wrong. He did not say at all: if you vote against the amendment, it will not happen. The chance of support will be reduced eventually if you continue in this way. If you continue to call in the media that the low and middle incomes should be able to experience it and at the same time raise the energy bill by €51 for everyone, at the same time giving 4 billion profit tax cuts to companies and not letting people come along, at the same time reserving 500 million on the budget, but now pretending that it can go to the people as well. Your group chairman will do the same. Technically, the Minister will give this answer, but it is in response to the Urgenda ruling. It will be used for the earlier closure of coal plants and a number of other matters. We all know that and it is implicit in that letter. So the bulk of the money will end up with the companies. Maybe there's another 10 million or 20 million left for some kind of subsidy scheme, but we don't have to fool each other. But there's nothing reserved for people, and I don't like it. Mr. Chairman. The second point I would like to draw attention to and which could also be invested in. In this Chamber, the Asscher/Buma/Segers motion was adopted during the General Reviews, which called for more attention to be paid to social housing. It can also be used occasionally, including in shrinking areas. My question is why the cabinet didn't do that. There was room for the budget. It could have been. Mr. Chairman. The third theme is that the VVD has already drawn attention to this. Why aren't they fixed? Why isn't the space the cabinet has used to fill those targets? There's so much unrest in education. Some schools close after four days. Work pressure's high. Why is this task hanging over the market? It could have been. The motto of this Minister's budgetary policy is in danger of getting a little bit: anything that can be done under the budgetary rules, I do not, and anything that cannot, I do. Well, that's very strange, isn't it? GroenLinks listed a number of cases and mentioned the 19.5 million for the MBO. We welcome it, but it was not possible under the budgetary rules. Anyway, the cabinet wanted to do that, and we wanted to do that. I'll cooperate; I'm not a finance minister. But yes, that also applies to the gas extraction in Groningen. That should not have been brought under the framework. That is all being put on the long track. Those targets aren't filled out, while you promised 3.7 billion and you're lying down, but you don't use them. I honestly don't understand anything about that. Mr. Chairman. Finally. This is the first time that we have discussed the budget with this Minister since the financial review. People need not be surprised that I find that undesirable, because the budget has been substantially adjusted. The abolition of the dividend tax did not happen. If the Minister also wants to support Parliament, I think he should appear in the Chamber if the broad opposition so requests. Then he doesn't have to send uplifting notes saying, "I don't feel like coming; my secretary of state can handle it." It's his budget. It was the biggest debate this political year. Next time, I expect him here in Parliament if requested. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr. Chairman. The fact that the party of the high economy is so behind us is clear. The fact that the growth of the Dutch economy needs to be adjusted downwards in the spring is a major factor. It is also true that we still have a view of an economic development that we could only dream of during the crisis period. At the same time, this growth is more than we have seen for a long time, driven by growing public spending and much less by consumer spending and certainly not by business investment. In any case, it seems to be barely affecting public finances for the time being. But we all know that we are having this debate in the context of a Brexit process that no one is afraid to say exactly how it is going to end right now. The only relevant question for now is whether entrepreneurs and governments are adequately preparing for any real scenario. Does the Minister agree with me that there is a Chamber-wide and national responsibility to take this last moment to really implement the necessary reforms in the area of pensions and the labour market, while the sun is still shining? Mr. Chairman. This year's surplus on the national budget is being made worse by an under-exhaustment of 3.7 billion. It's been said before. And of course that is not the intention. In the case of infrastructure, I can still imagine the under-exhaustment, given the lead times of planning developments and realisation, but especially in the Ministry of Defence, I am concerned about not achieving budgeted expenditure. The need for additional investments in defence is beyond question for my group. However, my group wonders how the cabinet will in practice reduce the increasing tension between under-exhaustment and increasingly tough plans, for example an extra squadron of JSFs. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the unique and creative reservation of 0.5 billion for measures aimed at reducing CO emissions. The questions on this reservation from my group are as follows. What measures will be financed? What effect should this have? Is that reservation gonna be enough? And is this reservation now an incident, or is the Minister considering making this a structural method, to create extra occasional investment space for leaner years in bold years? The Millions note already said: "The picture of public finances is not complete without looking at the risks." I would therefore like to conclude my contribution by addressing two of these risks: guarantees and TARGET2. We all know that the guarantee for one is the risk for the other. Before the crisis, the amount of the Dutch guarantees amounted to EUR 63.5 billion. In 2012, it amounted to 258 billion, almost 200 billion more. This sharp increase was mainly due to a rapid increase in guarantees to international institutions. Following an initial rapid decline in 2013 and 2014, this decline has stagnated. This year it is still about EUR 185 billion. What is the Minister's commitment to further reducing the size of these outstanding guarantees towards pre-crisis levels? And can we get a complete overview of all the guarantees, and with that of all the risks? It is a long time ago that the Chamber has been given a complete overview of this. Now from the outstanding guarantees from international institutions to TARGET2, the payment system for banks in the EU. We all have the same euro in EMU. The Netherlands no longer builds currency reserves in, for example, Italian liras or French francs, as in the past, but positive balances in TARGET2. The Netherlands stood in that system a year ago 112 billion in the plus, Germany even 849 billion. On the other hand, there were countries in the minus, with Italy noticing in the negative. Now that we are a year further, it is striking that the Dutch plus has decreased slightly and the German plus has increased further, and that the Italian minus has also increased to almost 500 billion. So we do have one euro, but we also have competitive differences and a flight of capital from southern Europe to the northern part, and we are experiencing the consequences of quantitative expansion. Fortunately, this enlargement policy stops, but the ECB's balance sheet total has grown in three years from a sloppy 2 trillion to the extreme size of 4.7 trillion euros now. And a trillion is a 1 with 12 zeros. So about €10,000 per European resident, including all babies. TARGET2 is more than a boring and technical payment system; it is a cornerstone of EMU. And, of course, a positive balance will only be a real problem if the euro stops, but it would be nice if the TARGET2 balances would move back to each other. Now that enlargement policy is coming to an end, that is also expected. But at what rate is that going to happen? What does the Minister have the nerve to say about that? Or can he say little about this, and remains his advice: reform the situation in Italy, for example, and make the economy more competitive there? And to his own countrymen: consider an extra holiday in Italy or Spain. Mr. Chairman. With this request for a holiday advice, with a serious undertone about the risks of TARGET2 for our country, I am at the end of my first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you. Mrs Leijten has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u93	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins does not need a debate on the euro area budget that has been agreed. I understand that; the Christian Union signed almost every motion that said that there should be no euro area budget. But one of the goals of this household booklet for the euro area countries is to grow towards each other. Could countries use what is in that household jar, partly filled by the Netherlands, to improve their TARGET2 position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u94	I think it is premature for all sorts of things to be tied up in this area, especially now that we do not even know exactly what is going to happen. For me, it's still unclear how that game within the MFF is going to work and who gets control of it. I think there's still a lot of water flowing through the Rhine before we know exactly how that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u95	There's a lot of things not clear. That is why a debate has been requested, and that is blocking the Christian Union. Then how do you see it that countries have to grow towards each other through that household booklet, which we pay for, and which we know the countries that need to grow towards us, especially need money from it? That is the transfer union, which you never wanted, which also makes TARGET2 possible. You have also made it possible for you to agree to this housekeeping book, the euro area budget. Then why are you blocking a debate on this? Why do you say I'm not allowed to mix things? You pretend to be afraid of what is happening in the euro area, but you agree to a transfer union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u96	We're gonna talk in January at a coming AO about exactly these things. The Christian Union is not blocking a debate on this. It is important that we do not have a euro area budget. What seems to be coming now is still not clear. It is a separate pot within the MFK. In addition, I can go with Mrs Leijten: that is not really what you would like. At the same time, it is quite feasible, and it is better than we would have dreamed before Minister Hoekstra left for Brussels. A euro area budget is not the intention and a transfer union is certainly not. At the same time, of course, we know that the risks are still so great and so tied up in Europe at the moment, that if it goes wrong with the euro, it will also fall down in the Nordic countries. That is a great concern, and that is precisely why I am spending half of my text on reducing risks and the fact that we must constantly insist on doing so in Europe. 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna get a transfer union, and we all don't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u97	I'm gonna ask you about the energy bill anyway. I very much agreed with the interview with Mr Segers in the Volkskrant. In that he said: low and middle incomes must be able to cope, and so we are going to make proposals to allow tax relief for those incomes. My question to Mr Bruins is: when can we look forward to your proposal? Is that gonna happen today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u98	It is true that energy prices are rising. If we take a look at next year, we see that for a triple house it will increase by between €10 and €20 per month, depending on the energy company and the calculation you take. At the same time, we also see that income tax is falling, the AOW is rising, benefits are rising and the elderly discount is rising. In particular, workers and families are making progress. But I share Mr Nijboer's concern that if you have a small income, you may not be able to take full advantage of the benefits. It's pretty exciting next month, January. Then you know what charges go up, but you don't yet know exactly how much extra you have left on your paycheck. That gives people uncertainty. One comes at one moment in the month and the other at another time. That's pretty exciting. And the calculations we always hear from the cabinet are only averages. That's just static purchasing power. When it comes to exactly how it works out, I can imagine the concern and tension of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u99	I find the position of the Christian Union a bit difficult, and I ask Mr Bruins to respond to it. At first, they were against the social loan system. Then they raised the interest rate for students. I didn't quite get that. And now they've just passed a law. There were amendments to prevent this tax rebate and not to reduce it. This will be reduced, by explicitly €51 gross and over €60 inclusive of VAT per household. And a few weeks later, I read a plea that it has to go exactly the other way. How does the Christian Union put that together? How do you explain to me that it makes sense for you to vote in favour on the one hand and to make such a plea on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u100	The answer I just gave is about 2019 and about next month's paycheck. Then it looks like 96% of the Dutch are making progress. That is statistics, and I admit that, but it is now the best estimate. The margins are small. We must also hope, for example, that economic growth will continue, otherwise the picture may look different. But my group chairman's plea is concerned with the agreements made in the climate agreement. So they see also in the long term, in the years to come. Then the Christian Union is in favour of a further shift in the burden of income towards the burden on consumption. A higher energy bill is therefore a logical scenario. Especially at a lower income you run into all kinds of bumps, such as silvering problems. The risk is that the burden will be extra heavy on lower and middle incomes. That is why, in the longer term, we have called for a further reduction in payments, i.e. an increase in the reduction, in order to ensure that the costs of the energy transition do not reach the low and middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u101	So you raise them first, for next year, and now make a passionate plea to lower them afterwards. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u102	In the context of the climate agreement, we are passionately advocating that the burden should not be borne by low and middle incomes, but that, for example, companies benefiting from the SDE should contribute more to the ODE.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u103	I have no reason to doubt the intentions of the Christian Union and its commitment to a fairer distribution of climate costs. We tried that together in the Tax Plan. It was unfortunate that it was in the coalition agreement. We tried to fix that, but it didn't work. Does Mr Bruins agree with me that this question is similar to the one I asked Mrs De Vries that we should instruct the cabinet to look at the possibility of taking measures in the spring note, should the energy bill increase even more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u104	Let me begin by saying that I greatly appreciated the debate with Mr Snels on the agreement we tried to make on energy. I still hate that it didn't work out, because it was a very nice attempt to find each other somewhere in the middle of a bridge. I would not give such an assignment to the cabinet at this time. I would like to wait for the January paycheck and I would like to see how it works out. Let's see if we can meet again in this room afterwards to see if such an assignment is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u105	In the end, I am in politics to achieve concrete results and not to make all kinds of statements for the stage. I think Mr Bruins and I share that. I share Mr Bruins' view that we should take a look at what is happening in January. I understand that, but it makes sense to really look at the burden on households in spring paper, especially if additional climate and energy measures still need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u106	That's absolutely true. If, at the time of a climate agreement and these measures are drawn up, it would prove to be a disproportionate burden on low and middle incomes, measures must be taken. Then we stand shoulder to shoulder with GroenLinks to see how we can prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u107	I have a question for Mr Bruins. He was talking about the paycheck from January. I'd like to talk to him about the retirement slip for 3 million pensioners in January. The second term of my initiative proposal will be here after Christmas. Is the Christian Union still prepared to support the initiative proposal to prevent 5 to 10 million participants, young and old, from increasing the risk of discounts, because we now know that the coverage rate at the end of this year is below 104% for the millions of people in the four large pension funds? Are you prepared to do so, so that this threat will go away? Otherwise, pensions will even be reduced in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u108	We will not support the initiative proposal. We believe it is very important to have a pension system that is sustainable for the future, including for future generations. That requires a major pension reform. That's what we're betting on. We see it as a national responsibility, including the polder, to go back to the table and talk about a future-proof system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u109	That is a short and clear answer, but can you explain why you think it is just that young people who are now paying for their pensions and elderly people who are now retired are constantly seeing this threatening reduction? It's been that way for four years now. Next year the final decision will be taken, because if by the end of next year the coverage rate is also below 104%, the four large pension funds will be permanently reduced. You can't explain that, can you? You are concerned about the figures in January; I am concerned about the income prospects of 3 million older people and 7 million workers, who know that their retirement or benefit will be reduced if that rate stays so low, at the lowest point of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u110	The reason why we are threatening discounts is that we have pension contracts where people have a high degree of certainty that they will also receive the pension they are looking for. The only way to avoid discounts for the longer term in a transparent way is to create a new pension system where you save more personally for your pension. Right now, you see that young people actually pay net for the elderly. It will have to become more personal, so that generations will see that they are saving for their own pension and will be able to determine more themselves how much risk they want to take. At that time, when you have these new pension contracts and a pension reform, you can also avoid discounts. If we do that before then, we will put the pensions of several generations at risk. The Christian Union is not prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u111	Thank you. You came to the end of your speech with that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u112	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u113	I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr. Chairman. We do not have a debate with the Prime Minister on the euro summit, but I would like to say something about Rutte's vase. Freely translated to Rutte: the jug goes into the water for so long until it bursts. You can find out for yourself what that means. This last debate of the year 2018 ends where we started: with thriving public finances. I welcome the fact that I do not live in the country of the soft healers, but I am much less happy with cold, technocratic and visionless cabinets that we have to deal with. Everything that is not in the coalition agreement does not exist. And so this policy-poor cabinet stands still. Look at the poor legislative production so far! Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the euro summit last Friday and the margin of the European summit. Yesterday, the Chamber decided to declare the most important political battle in the European Union in 2018 with a dubious outcome for our country closed, at least for the time being. The 50PLUS Group will keep it on the political agenda. A separate eurozone budget will become Troy's horse under the guise of "" on his English "" the instrument." My group is and will remain against the euro area budget, which should not be mentioned as such. But it has also been said before: it is simply a further transfer union. Agreements have been made with far-reaching consequences for the Netherlands. Does the minister remember that it would be ESM temporary? The European Council report on the euro summit states that there is no mandate for stabilisation on the basis or not of the existing Commission proposal. According to the Netherlands' report, the link between the EU budget and reforms in national economies can be addressed in this way. Afterwards, President Macron simply acknowledged that this budget is still modest, but he did call it a symbolic breakthrough. This budget can be further developed over the years. Can the Minister explain what the Prime Minister did and what he didn't agree to? Juncker noted that the draft multi-year budget still contains 50 billion, including stabilisation. Mr. Chairman. Purchasing power development was disappointing in 2018, as was the case in 2017. The question now is what remains of the purchasing power improvement for 2019. The omens are moderate to bad again. Europe's tiger economy is once again showing disappointing wage developments, while citizens in much weaker countries can boast an average higher purchasing power and/or significantly faster wage developments. Van Mulligen gave this a nice state of mind yesterday, with the headline: 'Dutch households are still poorer than before the crisis'. That's not so strange when there hasn't been indexed for ten years. People's confidence in politics is being put to the test. In our country, this does not yet lead to action. However, the growing resistance to the increase in the AOW age, including for the heavy professions, should not be underestimated. 50PLUS was present last Thursday at the kick-off of the trade unions' actions on the Maasvlakte. We've seen for ourselves that people don't take it anymore. Something's brewing here. That's reinforced by the threatening discounts I've already talked about pensions in 2019 and 2020 for 5 to 10 million participants. This room looks at it and does nothing. On 21 January, 50PLUS, with the support of our colleagues from GroenLinks, the SP and the Labour Party, will organise a round table on the question of whether risk-free interest also applies to softer pension claims. 50PLUS also presents a new initiative proposal to extend the five-year deadline to avert the threat of discounts. And the second term of my initiative law to temporarily increase the calculation rate will take place soon after the recess. I would like to point out that the Planning Bureau referred to this proposal as 'almost generation neutral'. That is quite different from what some of the speakers have said before me here. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there is also good news. The 50PLUS Group welcomes the social lease agreement of Aedes and the Housing Union. Mr Krol will present an own-initiative paper which addresses this issue and strengthens sustainability. We propose that the landlord levy be reduced in favour of investments in sustainable housing. The housing corporations in turn double the amount on the basis of binding agreements, we propose. With such a doubling we create a flywheel effect towards more sustainable homes, more satisfied tenants and impressive climate performance. Mr. Chairman. During the discussion of the 2019 budget, 50PLUS tabled another neatly covered amendment to increase the legal minimum wage. The agreement between countries that I have just mentioned, the United States, the United Kingdom and now Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, following protests by the yellow-necked France, is that they all substantially increase the minimum wage, while they still have a huge budget deficit. The Netherlands can easily pay an increase in the minimum wage from a surplus, but we do not, and we find that unsellable. Today we are presenting the same proposal as with the rejected November amendment, but now by means of a motion. We believe, in fact, that the minimum income should first be increased in relation to the rising cost of living, before further payment of the national sovereign debt can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you. Finally, Mr Stoffer of the SGP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr. Chairman. The budgets, presented on the third Tuesday of September, were on the agenda of the First Chamber yesterday. And while they were hired there a few hours ago, time has not stopped since September. Mr. Chairman. The Autumn note contains a lot of good news, let's be clear about that. Once again, more money is coming in than we expected. This will be a way of repaying the public debt. That is all the more important when we see the growth forecasts for the coming year. The economic picture of September has now become obsolete. The Dutch Bank has substantially adjusted the forecast........................................................................... the PVV............................................................................................................................................................................... Looks like we're economically over our peak. And that means we have to be prepared for lesser times. What is more striking in the Navy's note is that we see that additional resources cannot be put away smoothly and well enough. In the case of defence and infrastructure, this whole under-exhaustment can be taken to the next year and, before there is any doubt about it, we believe that this is a good measure, especially given the specific nature of the work in these ministries. But the question is: how is this finance minister going to ensure that it does not lead to nonchalance? Because normally in the other ministries, the pressure of an end-of-year margin is there for a reason. Mr. Chairman. Almost all budgets are under-exhausted. This brings me to a specific arrangement which, I think, will almost surprise everyone, will cease on 1 January 2019, the LNG refund scheme, which was introduced five years ago. There was 15 million for it. That sounds like a lot, but on such a whole sustainability spot, that's not that crazy. Of these 15 million are expected to be used by the end of the year. Lng trucks came off the ground less quickly than expected, but there is now a rising line visible. And now that development is well under way in the Netherlands and in neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium, this regulation is suddenly being stopped. There are billions being put into making our fleet more sustainable and then that few million for LNG trucks would be too much. For trucks, sustainability is a bit more complicated than for an ordinary car and yet nice steps have been taken with the LNG trucks. The Netherlands is still ahead in Europe, but it will be different by 1 January. And while we see that Germany and Belgium are catching up, we are unfortunately pulling our plug. Suddenly, the refund scheme for LNG is not extended, a few months before the end date. The reason: too little environmental gain, but environmental gain in this difficult sector of trucks. We have put lots of money into Tesla's, Mitsubishis, Outlanders and all kinds of other plug-ins, because a development has to start somewhere. The same goes for LNG trucks. There is environmental gain and noise reduction, and there is a potential for further development towards bio-lng, and we are going to achieve even more environmental gains. But just before we get there, unfortunately, we are abandoning the sector for a few million euros, which could also be financed by the earlier under-exhaustment. At a time like this, I am a little bit upset with these budgetary rules, because that means that, even if you want to, you cannot push through the underexhaustment of the few million. I'm just asking the Minister to make that few million available. I can't imagine there's no legal obligation to find a part with such a beautiful Navy note anywhere. To sum up, my call is to remain innovative, to stimulate innovation and to extend this refund scheme for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-3.u118	I'll suspend for half an hour until 12:45. Then we will continue with the arrangement and then the Minister will have the opportunity to begin his reply.
