ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on a shortage of detectives. We shall use a three-minute speaking time. I would like to suggest that two interruptions should be sufficient, if you can agree. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Raak of the Socialist Party. Go ahead. Apologies, of course I welcome the Minister. I almost forgot. I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	You can't live without it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	No, otherwise it would be too quiet a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	Many officers have lost faith in the police summit and also in politics. Especially when the Minister talked about the need for more flexibility, while agents are no different than flexible. A few months ago, the Dutch Police Association published a report on the serious shortage of detectives. As a result of the underemployment, 80% of the notified cases would remain in place. There would also be much less research on its own initiative. Our crime scene is much smaller than in many surrounding countries. And the average age of the employees increases rapidly, to an average of almost 50 years. The deficits are very large. That was also one of the reasons for the police to take action, to strike and to take action. I called on the minister not to go to court, but to make a deal. I would like to congratulate the Minister most warmly on having done so. He didn't go to court. He made a deal. A collective agreement now before the police officers, who now have to give their opinion on it. When I look at that agreement, I see that not all the problems are solved. On the contrary. A lot of problems persist. But I do see that there is a change, that there is actually going to be investment in the police for the first time in many years, and that serious thought is being given to how cops can do their job better. I also see investments in people, money in people, but given the deficits that exist, for example in detectives, it still remains very thin. The minister said that he is going to look very seriously with the police unions, the ACP, NPB, VMHP and ANPV at the National Police Recovery Plan. But that recovery plan says that the police unions say that there is a need for a substantial increase in the number of detectives by 2,000 fte, as soon as possible. This is far from being reflected in the Minister's plans, which should also largely benefit the basic teams, that consideration should be given to the administration, in particular as regards the instructions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and in particular the fragmentation of responsibilities within the police. Is that also what the Minister is going to do now, along with the unions? Does he agree with me that the collective agreements that have been reached and which the agents have yet to give their agreement to are not the end of the bargain but a kick-off? Is he prepared to proceed with the police unions as soon as possible to implement this National Police Recovery Plan and, as part of that, to ensure that people join the police force as soon as possible? And what does he think of the remark in that recovery plan that 2.000 fte is needed? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. Then the floor is for Mrs Helder of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In May 2016, the Trades report appeared to be true, a strength and weakness analysis with the aim of coming up with recommendations for the establishment of detection that is equipped for current and future challenges. That's a mouthful, but no one can disagree with that ambition. That ambition is also necessary, because the conclusions do not lie. Let me mention the three most important ones. Firstly, after basic training, police officers are no longer tested for current knowledge of competences. Two: basic detective skills are lacking too often. Three: insufficient connection between detectives and blue or the cops on the street. This is certainly not just to be put on the police sign. You also need to be with enough people to be able to take on business and to keep track of the necessary knowledge and skills without burdening your colleagues because you're not there. That too is not the case. The successive ministers are all aware of this. Then you expect action. It barely came. What did? Progress letters and test gardens that are started to watch......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That all sounds good, but it's a waste of time when we don't have time. Because crime is increasing despite the perpetual mantra of the cabinet that is reducing crime. Granted, the Minister's doing his best, but what's in it for him? Not the requested 2,000 extra detectives, but 171 FTE agents or 8% of what is minimally needed. Of course, you're not gonna put a hole in a wet newspaper. It is also important that they are divided between the ten regional units and the national unit. The question to the Minister is how they can be used as a single block if they are divided into eleven units. How are they going to make a difference? This is unacceptable not only because of the fact that crime is not falling at all, but also because of the fact that the detectives we do have are pouring out, not because of the retirement age, but because they are discouraged by the lack of opportunities or throughflow possibilities. This was also one of the conclusions of the report and also of the 2015 book by Mr. Princen, entitled De cagede detective. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. There is a huge gap between, on the one hand, the conclusion in the report Handelen to the truth and the reactions of the agents in the survey of the Dutch Police Union and, on the other hand, what the Minister has promised, which is 171 fte. As far as I'm concerned, the agents are right on their side, because they experience the bottlenecks every day. So I say to the Minister: act truthfully. Can he promise that during this cabinet period those 2,000 FTE or detectives will join us? Because I have eighteen seconds left, I give it a quote from Deputy Chief Constable Van Essen: "'Principal: every day thousands of detectives do a good job. They catch criminals and make a substantial contribution to safety in the Netherlands. On elements we do very well. (...) But across the board, the pressure is very high." Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. You only feel at home in your own neighborhood when it's safe, when you can walk safely on the street and when your daughter just comes home at night. It's our agents and our detectives who are desperately needed to maintain that security. I must acknowledge that the cabinet is taking a number of steps. There will be more money and a collective agreement has been reached. That's incredibly important. At least we hope that an agreement will be reached. That is extremely important, but you can see that the gap between what is desired and what is delivered is still enormous. A small 200 detectives versus the 2,000 requested. Mrs. Helder referred to it as well. The word "detectives" hardly occurs throughout the budget. And it takes more than just capacity. An external committee has already been announced to reduce bureaucracy. My first question to the Minister is: what is the situation with this committee? Have the first results been achieved yet? What steps can we expect in the field of ICT; also a major problem facing many detectives. What do we do in the meantime? The recruitment of new people takes a lot of time and we see that it is actually too long before new detectives are on the job floor. In the meantime, will we come up with other innovative solutions? Is there an external recruitment? How are we going to close that gap, I ask the Minister through you, Mr President. In the meantime, how do we ensure that detectives don't succumb to the workload? The absenteeism is incredibly high and it's actually just getting worse. How do we prevent more people from pouring out when we need all these people so badly? My final question is about older people's policy. This is not included in the collective agreement, which is one of the most important issues. I, too, have been told that older detectives feel that they are no longer being taken seriously; they are often sidetracked. Mrs. Helder was talking about it as well. Furthermore, there is a need for the possibility to flow out early. I know that all this is not easy, but there will have to be a form of older people's policy on the left or right to keep people healthy and fit in the workplace. Mr President, I will conclude. Security concerns all of us. We must take this seriously, act truthfully and offer good and important handles. I hope that the Minister is prepared to close the gap between wish and practice even more than he is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	I am very pleased with this story by Mrs Kuik on behalf of the Labour Party. I wonder how she looks back on the previous cabinet period, when the agents were put on the line and there was a stop to hiring and training new people, at least there was a brake on that. Is it not also right to look back at the fact that the mistakes that were made at the time have contributed to the fact that we are now dealing with these major problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	We're gonna do the police law review later. Then we see that the introduction of the national police force, in which we were all present, also leaves a lot to be desired. We have not put the agents on the line, because it is precisely the Labour Party that has always fought together for Mr Van Raak to make some money for this in difficult times. Setting up has made choices in educating people or not, and with today's science you would like to do that differently. I would add that we are coming from a time of enormous crisis, that it was very complicated and difficult on all sides. We now see that we are giving EUR 2 billion to multinationals. I think you and I can do a lot of other beautiful things with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	I agree with that too, but when we set up the national police, I assumed that the police work is very uncertain, but that there are also some assurances, namely the age of agents, when agents retire and when agents pour out. We knew that 17,000 people were pouring out five years ago, and we knew that during the previous cabinet period. Is Mrs Kuik, with me, somewhat surprised that the police summit and perhaps also the Ministry, have gone out of the way of these assurances and just watched when they knew that there would be major deficits? Does Mrs Kuik also point out to me that, despite the Minister's investment, at the end of this cabinet period, we have fewer agents than we do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	Then the floor is for Mrs Laan-Geselschap of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, whom we also know under the abbreviation VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. The second basic level of the Maslow pyramid is security of existence, i.e. security and security. The VVD therefore has great respect for the women and men who are working daily to guard and enforce precisely that safety and security. We are therefore in front, next to and behind the police force. They must be able to do the work for which they have been hired. The VVD is therefore very pleased with the additional 291 million euros per year we invest in the national police. In his letter of 12 March, the Minister expressed a positive view and pursued the same values. We've been able to read that. Mr. Chairman. Signals from the organization itself must be taken seriously. That is why there are a number of questions to the Minister. We invest 100 million euros in an undermining fund. Is part of that $100 million spent on training or attracting detectives? Last April, the Minister presented an assault plan for absenteeism following a motion by the VVD. With an early approach, about 1,000 to 1,500 agents can get back to work. How's the absenteeism at the crime scene coming along? What is the status of reducing absenteeism? And are there any effects of the plan of action yet? Or at what time does the Minister expect the first effects? Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday, the chairman of the College of Attorney General was at Buitenhof. He said that solving the undermining issue and the related criminal activities is a long-term matter. The detectives are working long and intensively on investigations. It is then up to the State's Attorney's Office to proceed with these investigations. It can be extremely frustrating if the D.A. doesn't follow up on these investigations. Is the Minister prepared to see what steps can be taken by the D.A.? How can it be ensured that fewer cases are dismissed, and that is certainly true of cases in which detectives have spent a lot of time? Mr. Chairman. The last part. Raising the clearing rates is not always in the amount of people. The important thing is that you have the knowledge and expertise. My colleague, Arno Rutte, has therefore previously proposed that experts from the business community should be used as police volunteers in the fight against cybercrime. What progress has the Minister made on the implementation of this proposal from the VVD? There are opportunities here for both the police and the business community. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	There's another interruption for you, two of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	I hear my colleague from the VVD talking about the 291 million. I think Mr Van Raak is going to talk about that too. Much of it is linked to the flexibilisation agenda. As far as my group is concerned, this is a total disregard for the flexibility already available in the workplace, which has been stretched to the maximum. That's one. I also hear from my colleague about the undermining fund. That's a one-time thing. So even if that were meant to be for training detectives, which is not the case, I'll tell you right away that you can't hire people for a one-off sum. Doesn't that make your questions to the minister a little more ponderous? Read: Doesn't it make the VVD's point of view a little stronger when she says "let's finally get real money so that people can actually join"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	To answer that last question, we would like to see the Minister implementing these investments. On that basis, we will assess the plan. One-time money is one-time money I realize that very well but that can also be well spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	I always think that's the easy way to go: to move on to the minister. The coalition parties give the minister a certain amount and set limits. The Minister then put that at the disposal of the corps leadership, which we cannot blame for having too few people because we only give them a limited bag of money. So the question for my colleague from the VVD remains. We decide here how much money this minister can spend. So you can't pass that question on to the Minister. When will the VVD finally show a spinal cord and come up with money for the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	The VVD supports this coalition and this coalition has structurally allocated 291 million extra for the national police, 95 million extra for cybersecurity and 100 million extra for the undermining fund. All these amounts will lead to more room within the police to make better choices. We will see and evaluate whether this is enough and take other decisions in the future on the basis of this. But right now, this is what the Minister is working on, and we support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of amounts that are not meant for the police at all. That brings me back to my earlier interruption, so I'm not going to repeat that. I'm just concluding that the VVD says: we're going to evaluate it then and in a subsequent period maybe, hopefully, we're going to get more money for the police. As far as my group is concerned, the VVD is really not going to be discussed in another period and hopefully we will be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	Do you still want to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	Well, a positive contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	A new face at the VVD, perhaps also a new look at the police. I would ask Mrs Laan-Selschap to look back at how we got into these problems. 2,000 detectives short. In a previous cabinet period, VVD and PvdA said: we're going to put a brake on it, we're going to put a lock on educating and hiring people. Shouldn't Mrs. Laan-Selschap, as a new face to the VVD and looking back, also conclude that that has been incredibly stupid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	I wouldn't say that kind of thing quickly, especially with regard to policy. Secondly, savings were made in all policy areas at that time. We've all seen that the crisis has hurt everyone. Also with the police, as well as with the care and all other areas for which you regularly stand at the front of the interrupt microphone. It was the way it was then. We see a good step forward in this coalition agreement. We hope that things will be much better in the coming period, and we have confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	"A pain to everyone"? I still think that few VVDs have really suffered from the crisis. But the cops do. Now the VVD comes up with a solution. We threw the lock on it. We didn't hire or train people. What are we gonna do now? Volunteers ask, individuals ask. That is an embarrassing display, isn't it, that you yourself fail as a politician and then say: then we will fill those holes with volunteers. That's a little bit disgusting, isn't it? I would also like to ask what Mrs Laan-Geselschap thinks of the National Police Recovery Plan of the police unions. They say 2,000 detectives are needed. So not volunteers, not private, but real detectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	I think that was three questions, Mr President. But to deal with the first question: you asked me if I was horrified and you said that I wanted to fill it out with volunteers. I didn't say that. I told you that you could use volunteers for specific parts of the investigation. What is a win-win situation for both the police and for certain people who would like to contribute to it? So that's not replaced, it's en-and. And that only works well, because for the VVD it is ultimately about the safety of people on the streets, so that their problems are solved and that they feel safer. That's consistent with that Maslow pyramid I just started with. As for the second part, the money that is now being used is going to lead to a better police organisation with better solutions to the problems of today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	Yes. There's a deal. The cops still have to approve that. Those cops want to know what this is all about. The Minister said that he is going to work seriously with that recovery plan national police. But it says, for example, 2,000 extra detectives. That's just what that plan says. Does Mrs Laan-Geselschap of the VVD agree with that point of the police union recovery plan, so that there should be 2,000 detectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u32	I think that this must be considered, that the input should be taken seriously and that you should then look at how you deal with it, given the situation as it is today. The money's in front of it. Now we're gonna see what's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. The immediate cause for this debate was the plan, or the call, or the call from the police. The detectives did say that there was a shortage of 2,000 detectives, and that only one in nine criminal networks was in sight. I'm sure you've read that. What were your reflections on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u34	You have just heard my speech about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u35	Were you shocked by the fact that so many things remain?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u36	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u37	Were you shocked, too, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u38	I didn't read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u39	I would recommend it to everyone, because it is quite shocking if there are indeed so few criminal networks in the picture and if 80% of the business stays in place. I therefore ask Mrs Laan-Geselschap: was that something you did not think we could have expected, was that really shocking? Or did Mrs. Laan-Geselschap expect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u40	I have literally stated in my text that we must take signals from the organisation itself seriously. I think we did. And on that basis, I asked questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u41	I find that rather thin when you read how much of organized crime is not in the picture and how much we're actually focusing on getting the little bastard. Everyone has their mouths full of tackling undermining, but it turns out that the large organised crime remains structurally out of the picture because there is too little capacity in detectives. I expect a greater sense of urgency with the VVD than just: we listen to the workplace from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mrs Laan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u43	We deal with it the way we deal with it. I have put questions to the Minister, and on that basis we will judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go right on where I just was. Last week we heard a speech from VVD leader Dijkhoff about a plan for harsher penalties when crimes are committed in problem neighbourhoods. Coke sellers on the Zuidas need to be punished a little less than sellers in Amsterdam-West. All this to promote the integration of women and girls. I thought it was a very complicated turn. But in any case, tracking down the leaders of organized crime behind the sale of the coke lines seems a lot more important to me than just picking up the little dealers, wherever they are, because those top criminals, with far too much money and the ability to terrorize neighborhoods, are really a serious threat to the rule of law. Finding them is what makes the Netherlands really safer. This is not about increasing the penalty rate, or not only, but mainly about increasing the chance of getting caught, of both the small criminals and the big boys. But I was trying to make that clear in my interruption just now, too little serious is being done about it. It's a good thing there'll be more force in the police force. In that respect, I would like to congratulate the Minister. But is it enough? According to the Dutch Police Association, 80% of the attention is now focused on delivery cases, i.e. cases reported to the police or reported to them. Of course, that must be done. But it does mean that there is far too little time left to detect carefully the less visible forms of crime, on the networks that are less easy to catch, on those eight of the nine criminal networks. Are the figures or the estimates given? What's the Minister's assessment? Mr. Chairman. It's important to expand the detective capacity. We can do that by deploying additional detectives. It can also be done by using administrative forces for the work that detectives are doing now but that is more in the administrative field. It may also be related to reducing the administrative burden. But it's important that there's a greater impact force in the CID. Even if there's more manpower, it's not easy to fill the vacancies. That's partly because a tactical detective makes a lot less money than a neighborhood cop, because a detective doesn't get any fees. How did the Minister take this difference in pay into account in the collective bargaining? Finally. Criminal networks often do not care about the borders of the nation state. That is why it is so important to cooperate internationally in the search. But I read in the report that more than half of the requests for assistance from abroad are not being dealt with or are not being dealt with adequately. Is this true? What does this do with the reputation of the Netherlands and the Dutch police as a reliable partner in the fight against serious and organised crime? It is important that we work seriously in the Netherlands to detect serious and organised crime, in cooperation with our neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dam of the Christian Democratic Appeal, the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr President. In 1985 my police career began as a detective at the famous Soesterbergstraat station. In the meantime it no longer exists; it has merged into the Zuiderpark office. There I spent a year in a loft holding interviews with shoplifters, abusers and moped and bike thieves. So I understand very well what detective work means and also what it means for detectives to file a report, and not have the space to detect it completely. We must certainly do a great deal about the murderous bureaucracy that has been nestling in that detective work over the years. I look forward to the report that the Minister has promised on the report on the re-evaluation of the search. I think that is the follow-up to the report on Trade in Truth, which we expect at the end of this year. It is right for those detectives that I stand here time and time again to urge the minister to improve police ICT also for the copper. But the big challenge of this moment, including in detectives, is recruiting staff. Policemen can't get through to the police until there's enough new supplement. That is my great concern of this moment: how do we recruit 14,000 new people in the coming period? Last summer I went to work here and there and then I was also at the Marechaussee in Hoek van Holland. That's where I heard the Marechaussee is "burdened" by other services that take their people away. I hear from Customs that they're taking their people away from the police. I also ran into a guy who applied to one of those services. That route lasted nine months and at the end he was rejected. Too bad. But in the meantime, he hasn't been seen by any other services he might have been a good candidate for. In addition, our young people are really not waiting for a nine-month job interview. That is why the intensification of recruitment is the most important thing to be done at the moment in the police heirloom. That is what I want to ask the Minister: does he want to cooperate, with the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Finance, because Customs too will have a huge task in the near future, but also with the MBO and HBO, in recruiting and selecting policemen? On the streets, these services work together fantasticly, but when it comes to a subject like staff, there is still a lot to be done about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u48	In itself, Mr Van Dam has a very good point, namely that there is enormous competition between services as well. If we press for more recruitment to the police, this could be at the expense of recruitment to other important services, such as the Marechaussee or the army. So I think that is a very important point. The question is, what makes it possible for people to leave easily and not easily in the public service? Mr Van Dam then comes up with a solution and says that we really need to do more work on recruitment. But it may also be that the government is simply under-earned and that the working environment may not be sufficiently stimulating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u49	My experience is that people who do this kind of work in the government must of course be well paid, but that is not the primary reason for people to change jobs. That has more to do with organizational frustration. A lot of policemen say to me something like: "the police work is fantastic but that organization, I'm done with it." That is a subject that we are discussing here and beyond. It is a subject that will be addressed in the evaluation of the Police Act. It is also a subject on which I have just written an own-initiative paper, because I am very concerned about this. If the intention is to add 2,000 detectives, which we are talking about today, then that will only be achieved by achieving a lot of flow within the police in addition to side-intromers.................................................................................................................................................................................. That flow can only be realized if you have new crops in other places. That is the priority we have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u50	I am glad that it is indeed being widened, because it is not enough to talk about recruitment alone. Mr Van Dam spoke about organizational frustration. I do hear a lot about that too. It is also a question of allowing people to continue to school and to continue to develop in their expertise, their craftsmanship. So we're not here with more yards. There needs to be more capacity, and there needs to be recruitment. But then there is also a need to invest permanently in people, so that they can really work as professionals in an organisation and reduce that frustration. If Mr Van Dam continues to worry about this, I am already much happier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u51	I'm concerned about a lot of things in this area. I also think we should make it wider. But when Mrs Buitenweg talks about coke dealers on the Zuidas, we must also say that this is not just a problem for the police and the government. I think those coke dealers are also dropping off their pills and their sniffs somewhere, and it's also a social problem that we're all maintaining this kind of crime. The chief of police had a nice name for it that doesn't come to mind right now, I thought the "yogasnuiver" or whatever. It is really a social problem that I think we should all realise in this area that we should not leave the police alone with this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u52	Briefly concluding, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u53	I did not quite understand why Mr Van Dam referred to me. I want to say that I still live a long way from the Zuidas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u54	That's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u55	I only do that because you take the concepts of 'Zuidas' and 'coke' in your mouth, by the way, the concept but not the stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u57	I'm almost where I want to be. In any case, I would like to ask the Minister how he can intensify that cooperation between Defence, Finance and Education, i.e. MBO and HBO, and how we can ensure that candidates who are interested in the police are also those who might best be interested if they know more about it in the marechaussee or the Customs Service can then be retained for the security chain and not frustrated and go to a world where they may be much less in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Bishop of the Reformed State Party, the SGP. That is also educational for the public gallery. Yes. I'm still a schoolmaster, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mr President. It's a good thing you mention the full name once in a while. It happened to me once as a lecturer that I asked a touch about the significance of the SGP, which I also did from other parties, in order to reassure you, and that one of the pupils happily wrote "Socialist Reformed Party." I didn't count it right. But aside from that... Mr. Chairman. It's like two worlds, actually. On the one hand, you have the CID's distress call, an engaged and compelling plea for a stronger CID. I read in it about understaffing, far too few detectives, 80% working stock, as it is called euphemistically, no time for further training, a story of disappointment that is actually a bit courageous. On the other hand, there is a rather optimistic reaction from the cabinet. I quote: 'The distress call fits the ongoing route of recalibratement of the jump'. And: "good results of the trajectory," "recruitment of highly trained specialists," "innovative detectives" et cetera. So it's a story of optimism. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, these are two shattering stories. The SGP directly believes in the good commitment of the Minister and the many involved and would also like to express appreciation for it, but what does the people who have to do the work actually notice? Are the complaints about paper exercises and bureaucracy not really realistic? Since the formation of the national police, I have heard talk about the redistribution of people. Really, the SGP is happy with extra investments in the police, but does that actually bring extra people or are they ultimately only less departing people? Is it really about enlargement in terms of numbers, or is it just a little bit the same? I know that these numbers are juggled and that it all seems very nice, but I do not feel that they are actually being stepped in. We are now two years on from the Trades Report to the truth, and I would like to hear the Minister explaining the discrepancy between the stated ambitions and the experienced reality within the organisation and what he is going to do to bring these two worlds together. Mr. Chairman. Then the local detectives. Last summer, a motion was passed by colleagues Van der Staaij, Segers, Van Raak and Kuik, who asked for local detectives who really deal with organized crime with district agents, at the root, as it were, on location. Are the additional resources actually being used or are they going to be used more generally? If we do that, that would be a nice interpretation of the recommendation to give the local triangle itself more control over how to deal with local crime. The SGP says to the minister: take the distress signal seriously, opt for more coordination with the workplace and for more local detective work and let's keep the real professionals high. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u60	Thank you, Mr Hiddema of the Forum for Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. We have the letter from the Minister of 12 March, a response to the CID's distress call in the February report. The detectives are asking for an acute increase in CID by 2,000 people to be able to handle the job. 80% of the business is already on the shelf and the willingness to report has now fallen below 20%. This means that less than 4% of all crime is investigated in the Netherlands and 96% is not. Only one in nine criminal organizations is being investigated at all. Crime pays in the Netherlands under Minister Grapperhaus. In the Netherlands, detectives are only 13% of the police. In Denmark it is 19% and in Germany it is 20%. There is a fundamental understaffing. And I'm not even talking about the structural absenteeism of 7%. To my knowledge, that has risen to 12% in the case of detectives. Nowhere else is that as high as with our police. That's not surprising either, because the bureaucratic obligations and managers are driving cops crazy. This is a problem that we see in the Dutch government as a whole. The Minister has now set up a committee of managers to examine the management culture within the police and reduce bureaucracy. The lamb leads the blind. In his letter, the Minister admits that this year there will be an extra 100 million to the police, just enough to hire a tight 180 detectives. Furthermore, he will invest in quality, tightening up the initial skills, the development of the assistant officer and an experiment here and there. But there is a much broader problem. Over the next five years, a third of the policemen will retire. That's 14,000 cops. The police academy can't train enough new agents to fill this up. So, what's gonna happen? The Minister must now call Minister Kaag for Development Cooperation to claim Rihanna's 100 million for the Dutch police force. The security of the Dutch population should be central to any other government decision to take. Then the Minister of his other fellow ministers must demand that all pointless projects, such as Toyota's for jihadists, be stopped immediately so that the money can be used to strengthen our police force. At the end of this cabinet period, 4,000 detectives must have been trained to approach the European average. And give them a decent salary too, otherwise no dog will report to the police academy. This cabinet needs to invest more structuralally in the police. We need to train at least 20,000 new agents over the next five years to solve the serious undercapacity that already exists and to absorb the massive outflow that is coming. I call on Prime Minister Rutte to take the lead now and solve the problems with the police in order to keep the Netherlands safe. Then I have one final question, if it's allowed to me in terms of time. The Minister's reactions always mention the fact that the Dutch people feel safer and that more crime cases are being resolved. Those reports come at us at regular intervals. I want to be able to understand with my simple farmers' understanding how the Minister explains this kind of report when he involves the whole of the figures underlying these investigations, considering that 80% of all things are now on the table and that there are still a lot of things at home because 20% of the Dutch do not report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u63	One in nine criminal organizations is not even investigated; that is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u64	You already told me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u65	With the brains that a minister should have, how can you still attribute value to the Central Statistical Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you. There is an interruption for you from Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u67	Through you, Mr President, I would like to put a question to Mr Hiddema, especially in view of his experience in criminal law. As a committee, we have regular meetings on the evaluation of the Police Act. We've had several hearings on that. Tomorrow we have a final hearing with the chairman of the unions. There is an initiative paper on which we have had a hearing. We often discuss this subject in committee. However, I would like to invite him to do so at some point, because all the valuable remarks he makes, at least by me, are sorely missed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u68	I have followed the contributions of all my fellow Members, whom you seem to have met in committee chambers. I have not been able to see that their presence at these committees has had any tightening effect in the sense that they can now raise a little more knowledge about these issues than I do. But you have that opportunity now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u69	That is precisely why I once again invite you to enlighten us with your presence, because that would seem to be of enormous value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u70	Oh, that changes things. All right, if that request is carried collectively, I'll seriously consider it, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer of Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u72	That's not what it's called anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yes, I do. Well, D66. I thought you knew that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The claim that the Netherlands would be a narcostate dates back about twenty years ago. Then the French Senator Masson called the Netherlands le narco-Etat du Nord. This ruling was the starting point for cross-border cooperation between the Netherlands and France. In that respect, the police union's recent report is little new under the sun. But just as the claim "The Netherlands narcostate" is not a new statement, the claim that there would be scarcity in the search is not new either. In the past, there have been several programmes for strengthening detection. My question to the Minister is: what have these programmes actually produced? Mr. Chairman. Where the previous Cabinets left the police empty-handed, this cabinet provides more and full hands. This cabinet invests much more in detection capacity by allocating money for more capacity in the neighborhood; by employing 1,111 additional agents. This means that these agents in the district can also use their investigative powers. Search is no longer a monopoly. Just cooperation between the FIOD, the Financial Intelligence Units, the Tax Office and the Royal Marechaussee creates more joint investigative capabilities. Citizens and detective agencies are also increasingly contributing. Finally, let us not forget that international cooperation has already been mentioned. Partners such as Europol and Eurojust are essential links with regard to D66, making it possible to organise our detection more effectively across borders. As far as D66 is concerned, it is not just about detectives, but also about detectives; an important dimension of the security task, in which we can all mean something, both reactive and preventive. So we are not so much looking for more detectives, but also for a different type of detective: highly educated, with analytical and strategic skills, internationally oriented and with knowledge of today's problems, such as human trafficking and cybercrime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u75	Suddenly I hear something that I think is: hey, a new sound. I hear a representative of D66 making a positive comment on private search. That sounds like music to me. I would like to ask the representative if I understand that correctly. Do you think that this private investigation also has an essential meaning in that broad police function that is not only carried out by the police, but by all those services you mention?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u76	I did not make so much a positive remark as a definite observation, namely that the investigative capacity is partly composed of the share of private investigators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u77	And how do you appreciate that share that's being paid by those private detectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u78	I note that there has been an increase in private or private investigatory capacity for a long time. It belongs to companies, for example large multinationals; they have their own investigative capacity. That growth was started a long time ago. We have to note that there is also a contribution to be made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u79	Mr. Van Dam, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u81	So the cabinet's investing. I am very curious whether the Minister can indicate how he is using these resources to actually attract that new type of detective. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. Detecting is also making choices. What are the detectives for and why not? Do detectives even focus on the priority issues? That question has just been raised. Could the system of detectives be organized more efficiently? There is a large arsenal of resources and legislation. The question is whether this potential is sufficiently exploited. I would very much like to hear the Minister's views on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u83	I heard Mr Den Boer talk about international cooperation, Europol and Eurojust, and I heard her say that detectives are also making choices. Just at that point, I missed the European Public Prosecutor's Office. There is little choice for our detectives, because that directive on the European Public Prosecutor's Office requires that from Brussels by a European Public Prosecutor you are not making it up, terrible this! It will be dictated that agents on land here, detectives, will be deployed to detect fraud involving European money. In the meantime, the ink is not yet dry from that monstrosity, and the European Parliament wants to extend that mandate. Shortly and well, Brussels will decide how our detectives will be deployed. How does colleague Den Boer feel about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u84	We all know that the cabinet wholeheartedly supports the contribution to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. D66 is also a strong supporter of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We know that we are currently working hard to establish the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I don't want to anticipate any of the detective choices that are being made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mrs Den Boer says "happily supports." I was gonna take a look at the history. It was just the VVD that went through the pump again with a lot of nice words, and eventually that is what the European Public Prosecutor's Office is going to do. I'm afraid that's the way it is. But the problem is that this minister is no longer politically responsible for something that a European Public Prosecutor determines. Because that's not what this minister is about. So perhaps the cabinet will support that wholeheartedly, but I would venture to doubt that. How does Mr Den Boer feel about this monstrosity from a state-owned point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u86	Firstly, I note that Mr Helder has made a comment on the VVD. I think that question should then be put to my colleague. And there is also a comment about the minister and the previous cabinet. Perhaps you could ask the Minister the same question in a moment to see how he stands about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u87	Finally, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u88	Yes, Mr President, colleagues always do that when they're in a tight spot. Then they pass the question on to the minister. The Minister of State is simply the successor of the former minister. I did not ask a question, but I made a factual observation as Mr Den Boer did just now in her speech. At first, only D66 was a warm supporter of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I hear Mrs Buitenweg shouting: and we! Indeed, GroenLinks was also in favour. There was a minority at the time, but then there was a majority thanks to the VVD. From a state-law point of view, this is simply not right. That is also an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mrs. Den Boer, do you still want to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u90	I didn't hear a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you. I notice that Mr. Van Dam doesn't want to respond either. This brings to an end the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u92	We need the Prime Minister's first term. I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the investigation of an article that appeared some time ago, the so-called Emergency Cry of the Dutch Police Union. Your colleague, Mr Van Raak, asked for this in the context of this debate. On 20 February we discussed this document in oral Question Time, on 21 February during the general consultation Organised crime and on 22 February during the general consultation on the fight against crime. On 12 March I sent your Chamber a substantive response and during the AO Police on 20 June we also discussed this reaction. I will say something about this at the end. I would also like to comment on some of the nice things that Members of Parliament have said. In conclusion, I would also like to emphasise the cooperation that we have in these AO's and in committee, even though we do not always agree with each other. In any case, it shows that I take the concern about the operation of the police force seriously and that I have had a number of exchanges of views with your Chamber on this matter. This debate gives us the opportunity to discuss again the measures taken and what else needs to be done. The same applies to the ongoing routes and the strengthening of the investigation and developments which have occurred since the end of February and which extend to the investigation. Developments that I have also focused on during a large number of work visits in order to explore what is happening in detectives. Will progress be made, but what about the workload? The Members of Parliament with whom I have often had an exchange of views in committee know that this issue of absenteeism and, unfortunately, in some cases post-traumatic stress disorder, is also a very important point for me. That's it, that's it, and you can always call me on that. I would like to go into the questions raised by Mrs Buitenweg, among others. Quite specifically, there is an intensification of 291 million for the police. There have also been a number of exchanges of views with your Chamber. In the context of this investment, but also in the context of the discussions on the collective agreement, I have formulated a personal commitment to the police, through the unions. In doing so, I committed myself to discussing progress on matters relating to the completion of the national police process, as well as issues raised by the unions in that recovery plan, every four months. We do this together, with corps leaders and unions, to see how that progresses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u94	That's very nice. Of course, I also studied that National Police Recovery Plan, with many points, 130 points. It states, for example, point 20: ensure a substantial increase in the number of detectives by 2,000 fte as soon as possible. With all due respect, the current plans aren't really getting anywhere near them yet. So is the Minister also committed to these aspects of that recovery plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u95	I don't commit to numbers. That's what I often have on questions, or... Interrupts of the member Van Raak indicated. What I have said very clearly is that every four months, i.e. the corps leadership, the unions and I shall undoubtedly involve participation in this process, we will be discussing how things are progressing as they are being discussed here today. The Unions' recovery plan is the framework for what the unions have formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u96	That's different. At the moment there are many meetings in the country with police officers, where police people discuss whether or not they are going to support the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u97	The outcome of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u98	Yeah, the negotiation result. Then it's pretty important what's in it. With me and many agents, the idea has been expressed that the National Police Recovery Plan was a starting point for the Minister to work with the policemen to restore trust and restore police work. Is the Minister gonna embrace that police union recovery plan? To what extent is he going to embrace that? Or does he say: that's also a plan; we can also look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u99	I'm gonna hook up on that last sentence right away. No, that's not "also a plan." The reason I have committed myself to engaging in talks every four months is to see how the completion of the national police is developing and how a number of concrete agreements in the 'cao' concept are developing, so I shall just mention them, which have now been submitted to the police. How's that going? Are we actually getting on with each other? In doing so, the recovery plan is certainly also a piece that is seriously on the table and is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u101	Yeah, that's not...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u102	No, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr President, I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u104	I have a point of order, too. As chairman, you can agree with us in advance that we're doing interruptions in two. You can agree with us that we do interruptions in threes, but you can't interrupt some people in threes and interrupt other people in twos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u105	No. I've allowed them in threes in the first term. I'd like to suggest that we do them in two now. But you didn't count on it, so I'll give you a chance now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u106	In my view, the outcome of the collective bargaining process has now been agreed between the police officers and the unions that the minister and the unions will work together to see how the National Police Recovery Plan can be implemented. The National Police Recovery Plan is the proposal of the police unions to restore confidence in the police leadership and in politics and to allow police work to be resumed for the police. I see here that the Minister says: it is a plan; we can also look at it. I don't think that's what's in the cops' heads. In the heads of the agents is that they have taken action and fought and that this recovery plan is now the starting point for the recovery of the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u107	I think you're gonna simplify it a lot now. There has been a commitment from the unions and they have formulated a reaction. It is assumed that we will expand on the basis of the investment resources that make this possible. You know that in the next three years we will be investing another 58 million in the police. But I will come back to that later in replying to the questions put by Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Den Boer. As I have just said, we have said of the things that the unions have formulated in the recovery plan: okay, that remains a piece that will continue to be discussed in these talks. But the agreements that are fixed in the outcome of the negotiations. A lot of things go with that. This includes the wage increases that have been agreed for the coming period. But that includes, for example, the fact that you have heard me say it aloud, so I can repeat that here too, we have taken the criticism of the workload in the light of certain flexibilisation and made further agreements on it. There's a lot to go with that. This is not the case, otherwise it would have been with the title Negotiating result, that everything in the recovery plan had been agreed between the parties as a result of the negotiations. Mr Van Raak knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u108	Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u109	I have some sort of point of order. I find it uncomfortable to talk about the collective agreement here. When you talk about the recovery plan, you talk about the collective agreement in no time. I actually want to know about the Minister. Everyone here can state for themselves what he is talking about or not, but I would like to make it clear that I am trying to stay away from it because it is not yet a final negotiation result. I think that we should keep a little distance as politicians. I would almost ask the Minister to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u110	I find that very difficult, because a number of questions have been asked today, let me put it this way, which I understand from the point of view of the subject we are discussing today, namely the strengthening of the police force, for example, on older people's policy. I have to make it white or black at some point, I believe, as soon as the point of the collective agreement is discussed. I understand Mr Van Dam's point that we should not talk today about the collective agreement, but I do not escape to justify some things. For example, that personal commitment of mine, which you can see in the light of the outcome of the negotiations, we are still talking about this, but I also tell the Chamber that I have said that every four months we have to see how things are progressing on these important points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u111	I'm going to consider your comment as an interruption now, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u112	If the Minister says this, then I feel less constrained to touch on the content at that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u113	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u115	I assume you're coming up with a point of order now, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u116	Yeah, I think it's remarkable. We're talking capacity with the police, capacity with the detectives. There are now agreements to increase that capacity. I don't think that's enough. Others think that is enough, but we have a debate on this. Then it would be quite remarkable to deny, of course, the huge pink elephant standing before us, so that we should not discuss it. Then we, as a national assembly, would be making a bit of a mockery of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr. Van Raak, if I may. I don't think there's anyone here who would say anything unspeakable. We could also not stop anyone from talking about this in the context of order. So we're not gonna do that at all. Feel free to talk about every elephant. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u118	I stress that. There is nothing unspeakable for me, but of course the Bible says: there is a time for all things, so to speak. So it's verse two whether it all has to be today. Through you, Mr President, I would like to say something to Mr Van Raak, also in line with the points raised by the unions in the recovery plan. Following the negotiations on the terms and conditions of employment agreement, the Chief of Staff and the Unions have agreed on the search. The Corps investigated the administrative burden of the search in the report effectiveness of the search. The ten main annoyances of police officers in the search will also really be dealt with by the police, of course at the points where it is also in the power of the corps to influence them themselves. A proposal on this will be made before the end of 2018. In any case, administrative burdens will be reduced by reducing the high percentage of recovery work, which currently costs a lot of capacity. To this end, the police will invest in increasing initial and professional skills and, where possible, add exempted Deputy Prosecutors to the base teams. For this we will come up with a concrete proposal in the first quarter of 2019. Furthermore, administrative support in detection will be strengthened by targeted deployment of additional capacity from the opportunities offered by the Participation Act. Starting before the summer of 2019, we will receive a further proposal every quarter for a next topic, and the joint goals of corps management and unions are to simplify and streamline the direction within the detection and improve the connection between detection and area-related police work. Through you, Mr President, I say to Mr Van Raak that this is really where I talk to the unions and the leadership every four months on these issues, to see how we stand, whether the agreed measures work or whether we should do other things. There's been a lot of talk about the numbers surrounding the reinforcement of the CID. I won't repeat that. However, I would like to say a few words about ICT support, in reply to Mrs Kuik, which makes it possible to clearly monitor the rate of return of criminal offences submitted and the reason for the return to the Office. That means you can just intervene and improve more focused. Over the past year, the police have also made a significant effort to put the foundations of detection and prosecution in order to recruit highly trained specialists in areas such as financial and economic crime and cybercrime. The available functions for higher-level specialists are 96% filled by 31 December 2017 through both transit and side-influx for functions in the fields of digital detection, financial-economic crime, intelligence and forensic detection. As a result, the occupation is now in order to ensure that the target of 20% HBOs has been achieved in the search. I would add, however, that there is still insufficient response to fundamental questions such as the level of ambition and realisation of quality, culture and mbo versus hbo, and this is also reflected in the analysis of strength and weakness. This also includes the development agenda, which the police are now making in close cooperation with the prosecution and the ministry. I will send it to your Chamber, as promised earlier, at the end of 2018, and very concretely before the budget debate. I think it would be good to be able to talk about this in that context. It is, of course, up to the Chamber, but it can at least be discussed in the context of the budgetary procedure. I want a tip of the veil lights. I have already written about the content of the development agenda in the letter of 12 March. There are three lines in that. Defining the desired changes and strengthening ownership, also defining fundamental, what is called disruptive adjustments, for example in the field of forensic detection, cybercrime and citizen participation. I told you about work visits, and I would also like to encourage the committee to do so, although I do not know whether 'encourage' is the right word. But I have been to Apeldoorn, for example, to look at what is happening there from far more robotic means of declaration. That really works with a bone that asks all the good questions and classifys them and the like. The third line I announced is to strengthen the quality of the approach and its impact on the fifteen most common offences. Anyway, I hope your Chamber will accept the Chief of Staff's invitation to take note of all current developments in the search in early November. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about absenteeism in detectives and also about older people's policies, by Mrs Geselschap and Mrs Kuik respectively. We're gonna need to reduce absenteeism in detectives, too. Over the past few years, it has been shown that reducing absenteeism in the police is complex and unwieldy. We must also bear in mind that the absence of the police will always be higher than the average, given the particular nature of the police work. Any objective formulated against this background must therefore also be realistic. The core of the police approach is not in more instruments, but in real attention to the healthy and sick employee. In this spring, I also sent you the plan of action of the corps leadership on this issue. Anyway, implementing a major cultural change in an organization of 60,000 men also takes some time. That is why, as I have already indicated, the police need five years to achieve the 10% reduction in absenteeism. I will continue to inform your Chamber this autumn about that absence. Then there is the issue of older people's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr President, I come running very charmingly, in high heels, I know. I have a small point of order. Can we expect that for the budget too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u120	Yes. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik rightly called for extra attention to be paid to older people's policies. She said that we really need to make good agreements on this. In the negotiator agreement, I will come to that for a moment. The possibility has been introduced for older people to create, together with a temporary employment, a less burdensome package of work to ensure that older people reach their retirement or AOW age in a healthy way. Moreover, in the current legal situation, there are also many possibilities to take a step back, such as night work exemption. This, too, is an issue that we will have to look into over the next few years in the context of the regular progress talks with the unions and the corps leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u123	I still have a question about that. "Viewing the years to come" does not mean that anything really is going to happen. It's not just that the outflow is high; the absenteeism is high; but also the treatment of the more experienced senior police officers leaves to be desired. I too know a lot of stories from people who say: boys, I want everything, but I am already being sidetracked; I still have five years to retire, but I am already being talked about pre-retirement when I know I have to go on for a number of years. So it's about a whole series of facets. I would then like to see a little more urgency expressed than 'we are going to explore with each other over the next few years what we might do'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u124	With all due respect to Mr Chicken, I have already said that this is the reason why, in the coming years, I will look at the periodic quarterly consultations to see if we can move forward with some of these measures. I think that we should also discuss in that consultation the concerns expressed by Mrs Kuik about the noises from the corps that there are people who are being opposed precisely because of their age. I'd say that's very wrong. So we're not saying we're gonna check it out in three years. No, every four months, this is a subject we're looking at. I would like to point out to Mrs Kuiken that the 58 million that I have received from the cabinet is intended to ensure that the additional outflow of pensioners is covered over the next three years, precisely by funding measures that people want, such as longer working conditions for people who want to do so. That is, therefore, in a very different direction. By the way, I would like to answer Mr Bishop's question in the context of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u125	Well, let's finish this interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u126	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u128	I like standing here, but not for nothing. The Minister says: can it be that they are already being sidetracked? No, it can't be, but it will. That is the cultural aspect. Then the actual situation. Look, the fact that the Minister is going to talk to the unions about this problem every four months is nice, but that is still three years to go without there being anything concrete after so much consultation. So I would like to ask the Minister: when can we then have the debate with the Minister? Then, if necessary, we must organise a debate on older people's policies; I think Mr Van Raak is very much in favour. We can only check and we can table motions, but I want something concrete that we have a handle on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u129	I have actually assumed, especially in view of the sharp and also sporting way in which I have accepted the negotiations over the last few months, that the unions in that four-monthly consultation are really able, if I may put it so directly, to put me on the rack on those points that are said to be: look, we are actually seeing nothing or far too little happening there. So I have every confidence in that. As regards the periodic report to the Court: as I outlined in my introduction, we really have regular consultations with each other. I think it is right to agree that we should at least discuss how these talks are going to be conducted in those discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u130	You're going to cause another interruption to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u131	No, I'll finish, Mr. Chairman. Then there's nothing left for us but the rack. We will then continue to do so periodically until steps are taken, even when it comes to a healthy policy on the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u132	Thank you. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u133	So steps are already being taken for a healthy elderly policy and we are also going to check whether it works or what needs to be done. Then there was another question about the External Advisory Committee. I will soon come to the Chamber with the exact interpretation of the mandate but also of the committee itself. There is an AO on 17 October, and I will do everything I can to send you a letter on this subject, so that we can go into it in detail, if you, of course, as a Chamber, so wish. Mrs. Chicken...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u134	One moment. Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u135	When you answered the written questions, you said that there was such a committee. That was the beginning of the year. We're living somewhere fat in September and you're about to send a letter to the Chamber about this. That makes me so despondent, because then I think: we are going to fight bureaucracy, we are going to do it with a committee, it takes three-quarters of a year to set up that committee and then there is another letter to be sent. I hope you understand that this is not really the trajectory I would like. I myself said in my own initiative paper: simply set up some sort of corps Marine, someone who gets room within the police to abolish rules. Because a lot of these bureaucratic rules just come from such an organization itself. This is not only the case with the police, but it is in all kinds of organizations. Wouldn't the Minister care to reconsider that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u136	I would like to assure Mr Van Dam that I will go into more detail in the letter before 17 October on that point of the Marine Corps, as you call it. We've had an exchange of views on that before, but I'd like to promise to do it again. And then, as far as I am concerned, on 17 October, we can really discuss this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u137	I'm not interested in that term being mine. But knowing this minister, I can't imagine that this is an ambitious way of doing that bureaucracy. Anything but this is better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u138	Apart from the very kind description given by Mr Van Dam, presumably of my character, I am taking the handle by saying: I will come back to that in that letter and then we can see together on 17 October what we actually find the best way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr. Chairman. I have already said a few things about the 58 million. Again, that is to reduce the temporary effects on employability over the next three years by at least reducing the huge outflow. It was asked whether we could use that to increase the detection capacity sec. We can't, because then you're going to bet money for something structural. I want to answer Mr Bishop's question right away. Of course it is true that the police will be expanded by 1,111 FTEs in relation to the current FTE formation. So it's not like those 1,111 FTEs aren't just meant to close holes because of extra outflow. On the contrary, that's what the extra 58 million is for. Ms. Laan-Geselschap asked if the Minister would be willing to look at steps that could be taken by the prosecution to reduce the number of cases dropped. That is somewhat on the side of this debate, but I am going to answer the question. In the so-called Board of Directors, which was established a few years ago, the task organisations of Justice and Security come together. One of its products is the criminal justice chain monitor. I'll inform you about that, too. That monitor is precisely there to help the task organisations, and to optimise production and processes. During Question Time on 12 September last year, the Chamber asked critical questions about the high number of decisions to be removed. At that time, I promised that there would be an in-depth investigation at that point. This is carried out under the flag of the Executive Ketenberaad and is almost completed. I intend to inform your Chamber of the results shortly. As far as anyone would like to go to the interrupting microphone for this, I would like to say that I will do my best to send that investigation to your Chamber before the budgetary procedure. However, I do not have that in hand, but I will see if I can. However, I cannot guarantee it at the moment. About the $100 million for the undermining, here's what I'm saying. Mrs Helder rightly pointed out that this is an occasional fund. Of course, I would urge colleagues to have large sums of money available in the coming years to fight undermining crime. That money will be spent. I have asked for this in all regions and units, but also in the national partners. Everyone must come up with proposals that will be assessed by the Independent Strategic Board Undermining. I will then be presented with the projects most likely to receive a contribution from the undermining fund. Mrs Buitenweg asked how I included the difference in pay between emergency aid detectives in the collective bargaining. No agreement has been reached on this in the negotiating agreement. No distinction is made between groups in the negotiating agreement, but the type of work is considered. If such work justifies increases, then that is what is being discussed. And if detectives are working irregularly, they're gonna get those charges, too. But on both sides of the table, including on the side of the unions, there is no reason to raise this issue now in the negotiations which led to the outcome of the negotiations. Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Den Boer asked about the international requests for legal aid. There is substantial investment in countering cybercrime, and international cooperation is promoted through the appointment of 111 fte's to the national unit and 60 fte's agents with specific digital expertise for the regional units. It also strengthens the LIRC, which deals with international requests. In the reorganisation, two teams have been set up within the strength of the National Detectives to deal with these requests for legal aid. A total of 40 FTEs are involved. 65 people have been labeled for international use from the government's agreement fees. Seven of them will be added to those two detective teams. So that's going to be 47. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u141	An interruption by Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u142	There's gonna be a lot of numbers of how many people they are, 111. And a lot of other people are working on it. But my question was whether it is true that more than half of the supporting requests from abroad are now not being dealt with or not being taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u143	I can't confirm that figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u144	It may be that more than 110 people are working on it, but it is also about how many are needed. So I would like to hear at a later date from the Minister how many of the supporting requests from abroad are being dealt with. How many are there, how many are being treated? Of course, there may also be very good reasons not to treat them, but I want to understand them. It is problematic if, when there is serious international organised crime, we do not cooperate sufficiently with the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u145	I have to be very careful it's not gonna take off all of a sudden. Two things. At least I can't find the figures you're talking about. You don't mention a source for it yourself. I would like to say that I am certainly prepared to explain to you in a further letter what is going on with these international requests for legal aid. We also have to look at whether this could be done before the budget is dealt with, but we will not be dealing with the budget at all. I think it is an important point, so I really want to take that seriously. As far as international cooperation is concerned, however, I would like to stress that the Dutch police are highly qualified in international investigations. I think we should keep an eye on that. It has also been said by one of the Members that certain things would be better in neighbouring countries. I keep repeating it: the Dutch police are on the world ranking of international investigations at number six in terms of professionalism, integrity and, I would say, organisational performance. I would like to hold on to that, but I made a commitment to Mrs Buitenweg: I have come up with a letter of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u146	The commitment is clear, but apparently you want to say something about it, Mrs Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u147	The Minister actually asked me a question, namely what my source was. I can say: that is the Dutch Police Union itself. Also in the Emergency Cry it is very specific that there is not enough time to respond to these international requests. I'm glad there's a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u148	Yeah, a clear source.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u149	With all due respect to the emergency cry of the Dutch Police Union, there are a number of cries in there. I think we really need to figure this out numerically. Even though Churchill said that the statistics are worse than half truths and lies, we really need to figure it out as well, but I promised you that what is going on is numerically, and not going directly on the concerns that it would not be enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u151	There was also a request for clarification, particularly by Mrs Buitenweg. Clarification rates vary considerably per crime. For example, the clearance rate for driving under the influence is very high, because the police have the suspect in front of them in the event of a criminal offence. In the case of bicycle theft, the percentage is relatively low, as there are generally few detection indications in the case of that crime. Those are just two examples I want to highlight. These large differences make it very difficult to set a generally desirable level. In the case of specific offences, this can and will be useful. For example, in the context of the Security Agenda, the objective has been set to increase the clearing rate for, for example, robberies to more than 50% in 2018. It has also been said about the decline in crime. I have said it a number of times, and it is also well known: the high-impact crises have been reduced over the past five or six years, so that is certainly not a merit that I have been involved in by all kinds of campaigns and targeted policies. But there is other crime that needs a lot of attention, such as tackling criminal organisations. I think I've said that out loud several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u152	My question concerns the 50% that the Minister just mentioned. What if you're being robbed at home or in your shop? Only 50% of these robberies will then be solved. The Minister now mentions this as a kind of target that should be addressed. What is the 50% based on? What is it based on that figure would be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u153	This is due to a large number of factors related to the indications of evidence that exist, as I indicated for example in bicycle theft, which also weighs the possibilities of detection. Let me tell you this: I think that everyone who is here would prefer to have a society in which we have a 100% solution rate, but that is in fact an illusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u154	I share with you that that is an illusion. We don't live in 1984 from that famous book, do we? I'm intrigued by the 50%. It is said that this is the aim, but I think that is difficult to explain to the people. I'd like to know how you get to that 50%. Why isn't it 60%, or 70%, or something like that? I am still intrigued by that, despite the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u155	Two things about that. First of all, Mr Hiddema referred to the safety monitor which shows that citizens feel safe. The percentage that trusts the police is high. As a compliment to the police, the Kuijken Committee in its evaluation report last year stressed that the public's confidence in the police is still very high, despite the fact that a lot of time had to be spent in this difficult reorganisation. One side of the story is that you show the citizen that as a policeman, as a government, you make maximum efforts to solve cases. That's one way. The other side of the story is that you have a number of factors in various forms of crime, I have already mentioned them which can or cannot influence the detection or the solution. This leads to the fact that, in the case of a crime like robbery, you are, in the opinion of experts, at a high percentage if you can actually solve more than 50%. I'm willing to provide further insight into the underlying research data, but I don't have it in my purse right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u156	Showing citizens that maximum effort is being made, of course, it is mainly about visible crime. The big problem, which we also discussed today, is that a lot of crimes are invisible and less investigated. The Minister says that in some cases you are right to have a suspect in the detection of the crime, for example when driving under the influence; in others, it is obviously more difficult. The point is whether we have sufficient vision of this. According to the Emergency Cry, only one in nine criminal networks is really being investigated. The Minister himself just said that he attaches enormous importance to research, so that we really know exactly what figures we are talking about. Then I would very much like a response from the Minister: is it true that it is likely that, because of course it is not science, one in eight criminal networks is not being investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u157	The 2017 National Threat Picture organized crime nuances those images. That means it's "how am I supposed to put it right"? It is not as gloomy as the emergency cry of the police unions would suggest. But I have also spoken out loud many times, and I am doing so again here, that tackling organised crime and criminal networks must be a major priority for society, because it is that kind of criminal networks that intimidate and threaten innocent citizens and sit in ordinary neighborhoods. You know that story; I will spare you that here, but I am very much committed to it, because it works wrong on both sides. On the one hand, these criminal networks, if you don't do something about them, are expanding their activities. On the other hand, ordinary citizens either retreat into their shell or, at worst, be abused by such networks under pressure and threat. You all know examples of this: people who are forced to make their shed or their attic available to a synthetic drug laboratory because they are intimidated by some creepy neighbor. So let me be very clear about this: it really has a high priority for me. I don't think I can avoid the fact that there are some of those networks that we may have slowly in sight but haven't rolled up yet. That's what we need to bet on. It is very encouraging that the Public Prosecutor's Office has achieved very important results over the past year in the field of the so-called OMGs, the outlaw motorcycle gangs. Of course, that is only one example, but we are really working hard on it and I think that Mrs Buitenweg and I really think that this is a high priority for the years ahead for detection and prosecution, but also for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u158	The Minister scores very high on the motivation input. He keeps stressing that he personally attaches a great deal to this and that he really does a lot about it. Actually, I do. The idea is, of course, that money is always well spent and that we are really looking at efficiency. What does the Minister himself think he should have achieved in three years' time, especially in this area? If he is now saying that eight out of nine criminal networks are in any case not sufficiently investigated according to the Dutch Police Union, I have not yet heard anything about that, but what is the Minister's aim in this area? What can we pay him for in three years? I understand that it's complicated and I also understand that he can't say that 100% is his goal, but there has to be something more than just "yes, but I'm really doing my best."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u159	"I'm really doing my best" is a simplification which I, despite all the nice things that have been said, push away from me for at least 291 million extra structuralally into police. We're putting $100 million into an undermining fund. In addition, we spend another five years of money in it every year. We put 90 million in cybersecurity, part of which is also to combat cybercrime. As Mrs Buitenweg knows, we have received an additional 30 million from the cabinet at the latest to combat everything related to cybercrime, undermining, cybersecurity and so on. I'm very grateful for that. So it's not just that I'm trying my best. I also fear that this would not be very reassuring for the Dutch people. But another thing is indeed: where should we stand in three years' time? Of course, I don't have to judge that myself. You'll have to judge that. I think you should say in three years' time: we have indeed pushed the criminal networks in the Netherlands towards the exit of our society in recent years. Of course, this has to be demonstrated by real statistics for which I refer a little bit to last year's National Threat Image and how citizens experience it in their neighbourhood. I believe that both your committee and I have paid a working visit to Eindhoven. There we have been driven around by a neighborhood that really is an example of a neighborhood that threatens sighs under the yoke of organized crime that harasses, intimidates, threatens people. It's dangerous. The neighborhood has synthetic drug labs in a garage in the middle of ordinary houses, with all the dangers of explosion and I know a lot about that. That is what we must focus on with each other and with all the political contradictions that we sometimes have, I believe, here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u160	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u161	That's more than just trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u162	In between, may I ask how far you are with the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u163	I'd like to say that I'm already a whole end on track. I mean distance. So I've already done most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u164	Good. Carry on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u165	I just have to answer... No. I actually answered all the points. I wanted to get to the end...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u166	I didn't mean it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u167	Well, Mr. Chairman, as far as I know, I did. I would like to make the following comment at the end. I already announced it at the beginning. I appreciate that at least the investments made by the Ministry, which I naturally very much support, are appreciated. I also understand, of course, that people are looking critically: is it enough? I would just like to say to Mr Van Dam that I am always very much looking forward to the committee meetings that we have with each other, because we have a sensible, substantive and sometimes fierce debate there. Let us continue to do so, because the fight against crime and the proper use of police quality and detection are simply social objectives, not political party lines. We all have to support them. Again, I just want to say that out loud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u168	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u169	While the Minister brings us to the finish line of this first term, I still ask him a question. Why is it that the effects or results of previous reinforcement programmes on the detection capacity and quality of the Dutch police seem to be so invisible in the longer term? What's left of that anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u170	That too is not a shabby statement, but rather a bit too much a sweeping statement, I'm afraid. Because, of course, in recent years, we have also seen improvements in detection. I believe that the project of bringing together the national police, the formation of which, has brought additional workload. Everyone agrees on that. I am quite right to say that I have been approached by many police officers in the country during the discussions we had, even once or twice when there was a blockade or whatever. I think that this has also played a very important role in the fact that measures taken in recent years did not always fall down well. But I have also pointed out to you, for example, the real success that has been achieved by predecessors, not by me, in the field of those High Impact Crimes. Those are the forms of crime that hit ordinary people very directly in the face, so street robbery, robbery, burglary and the like. That is where great progress has been made. The fact that I have now paid a great deal of attention to organised crime in response to Mrs Buitenweg's questions is because it must be a hard priority in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u171	It seems a bit like we don't really know how to measure the longer-term effects of previous programmes, so how does that reflect the quality and quantity of detection. Does the Minister share my view that the detection in the Netherlands, the police, at least has a huge baggage on the shelf, a potential that is still somewhat underutilised?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u172	Well, it's good that this point is still on the agenda, because what I haven't said is that we're at the moment nationwide looking at where all kinds of efficiency can be achieved, so where you can use police people better than is happening at the moment. Of course, I do not want to take up the responsibilities that local authorities have in this respect, but we can find ourselves in the Ministry and in the police department where a battle could be fought. So I totally agree with Mrs Den Boer. I have not prepared it for this consultation, but something else is that I have sent out concrete figures for general consultation with the standing committee, which, for example, showed how the High Impact Crimes went. They're there, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u173	Thank you. We now have an interruption by Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u174	Yes, Mr President, because I have asked a question which I do not think has been answered. I asked how these 171 FTE are distributed between the ten regional units and the national unit. This is stated in the Minister's letter of 15 June this year. I asked how, if necessary, they can be deployed as one block, if they are divided into 11 units. That may be necessary at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u175	First of all, I apologise to Mr Helder, because it is true that this question was still open. Look, there's something like the national unit. From this point of view, people can indeed be used en bloc in certain situations. In addition, there is the possibility that one particular regional corps may call on others to engage in a very wide-ranging case. The very large DNA sample in the case of Nicky Verstappen's murder is a very good example of that. I went to see for myself. At that time, a lot of units from other regions were temporarily involved in this massive operation. That is what is happening. How are these 171 ultimately used in certain situations? The department notes that some of these people could be deployed in one case at some point. So that's primarily up to the corps leadership, in consultation with the local authorities. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u176	I agree with the Minister that it is just within the corps that it is necessary to decide how they are to be deployed, but I try to think a little bit about it. This seems difficult to me in practice. They must have a fixed place of work. If they have to be used as a block at once and masse, how does that work? Does that cost more money? Money is often the obstacle. I would like to see that point answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u177	That's what I'm assuming. But again, we should be happy that I don't interfere with these kinds of decisions. That's up to the department and the local authorities. This is done in an efficient way. It's not like a caravan of 100 people has to be moved from A to B.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u178	At the end of my speech I asked a specific question about police volunteers. My question was how far the Minister is going with the implementation of the proposal to make a combination of experts who would like to volunteer, for example from the business community, and police volunteers in cybercrime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u179	This point has indeed been raised earlier by Mr Rutte. This was picked up by the police department. I'd have to ask the department what's going on right now. I don't have any specific information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u180	One of my mottos is: no is also an answer. So thank you for that. But could I then hear what the state of play is before we get to work on the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u181	Yeah, no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u182	That's a promise. Written, I presume?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u183	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u184	All right, that'll put an end to the first term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I think so. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Raak if he were here. But he's not here. I suggest we suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u185	And here he comes. Take it easy. I call Mr Van Raak. By the way, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right now it's up to the cops to approve the agreement they've reached with the minister, isn't it? That's not a race yet. I hope so, because this is how we can start restoring confidence. But politics also has an important role to play in restoring that confidence. Whether or not the collective agreement is reached, I think it is right that the Minister should consult every four months. But then there has to be a goal. It has already been mentioned in the negotiations: that goal should be the National Police Recovery Plan. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still major problems with under-staffing in the police;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the police unions, to rapidly implement the National Police Recovery Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Raak, Chicken, Helder and Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-808]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u188	Then I give the floor to Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer, and finally also to my question. Capacity is certainly not the only answer, but of course we cannot ignore the facts. At the moment, relatively many older detectives are part of the force. They're gonna pour out. The absenteeism is also higher in detectives than in general. 'Cause that's 7% there, and in detectives, it's 10% to 12%. Mr. Chairman. The minister says he doesn't commit to numbers. I get that, as an ex-lawyer, because that's a commitment to results. You have to be very careful with that. But everyone agrees that the need is high, so I'm going for an effort commitment. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, upon taking office, the Cabinet indicated its intention to invest in the police and, for this purpose, structurally invest 291 million in, inter alia, detectives;]] [[considers that this is a good first step, but, unfortunately, given the extent of undermining, for example, and new forms of crime including cybercrime, this is insufficient;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to increase the total number of detectives as far as possible during this cabinet period, preferably by 2,000 persons or FTEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-809]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. I welcome a number of commitments made during the debate, including the fact that we are getting some more information about international cooperation. I really think it is important that we bear in mind, in this serious organised crime, that it goes beyond the borders and that arms trade and, of course, drug trafficking are taking place. It is crucial that we tackle this better and that a greater effort is also made for international cooperation. In addition, it is of course important that if people are caught, then the entire criminal justice chain also works well. Today we have been talking mainly about detection, where we have seen that often the smaller suckers are caught, but too often the big organized crime remains out of the picture, because it is more difficult to detect and more effort is needed to do so. But when people are caught, it is of course also crucial that the whole chain should proceed better and faster afterwards. We see, for example, that some administrators have a little more confidence in administrative measures than in justice. That worries me. It is good that we have an eye for detection, but I think that in future debates we should pay particular attention to the whole process, so that we can really get down to business and do justice to it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u191	Thank you. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering all the questions we have asked. I look forward to the promised search agenda. I believe that this is not just about capacity but also about the quality of work and innovation: other people who come along to tackle modern work. I will therefore continue to insist on ICT, but I think that the most important point of this moment is recruitment. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution, not because I have heard the Minister say that he does not want to do what I suggest, but because I am also giving him a bit of an order to other members of the cabinet, and then a broad-based motion from the Chamber can do no harm at all. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need for the police to recruit and train a large number of new workers in the coming years;]] [[noting that the labour market is currently very tight;]] [[noting that police, Royal Marechaussee, Customs and other security, control and surveillance services are partly "fishing in the same pond," that they each recruit people for themselves and that these recruitment routes may last for a long time;]] [[Whereas cooperation between these organisations in the field of recruitment and selection offers the opportunity for a broader picture of suitable candidates;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the security services (Royal Marechaussee, Police, Customs) cooperate with each other and with MBO/HBO in order to improve joint recruitment and selection of staff, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Dam, Laan-Geselschap, Den Boer, Buitenweg, Van Raak, Kuik, Bishop and Hiddema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-810]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u193	By the way, Mr Hiddema has just told me that he will be at the hearing tomorrow, and I particularly appreciate that because we can use his experience well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u194	Thank you. Mr Bishop did not take the floor. Then I give the floor to Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u195	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam appears here more or less as my personal secretary. I would therefore ask him to stand there at that exit, because that's what I call someone from my office coming, but it's a party agency with two motions and they're not here yet. So if you'd like to see him, Mr. Van Dam, you can do something useful on probation. Mr. Chairman. The Minister is calm and calm, in his response, I must tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr. Hiddema, do you realize before you continue that you only have one minute, including the filing of motions? So that's gonna be another race against the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u197	Well, that's what it's gonna be. Can that minute begin now, or has it already started? Good. The minister's going to be calm and calm, like I said. The emergency call from the police has been reviewed here, and it looks like a piece of paper you're talking about and then it's okay. No, that distress call means alarm! That's code red. The minister has to put his fist on the table. The Minister has to go to the Council of Ministers and I call on him to argue to his colleagues that Dutch security is central and must be considered to be more important than the foreign hobbies of his colleagues. Then he can also make it clear to the Council of Ministers how happy the police would be if they had been able to cash in those losers of that crazy dividend tax. Maybe it'll help. You never know. Here are the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas police deficits are acute and the situation is no longer sustainable;]] [[calls on the Minister to put an immediate focus on reopening as many police stations as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are serious deficiencies in detectives;]] [[having regard to the fact that the detectives themselves are requesting the training of 2,000 new detectives in an acute manner;]] [[calls on the government to comply with the wishes of the detectives and immediately release budget to train at least 2,000 detectives by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-811]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-812]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u199	I call Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u200	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. D66 is looking forward to the development agenda that we are looking forward to. Furthermore, we also like to see attention for the whole chain. The same applies to the line in the organization. All layers must be aligned in order for this to run smoothly. This also means that frustration must be removed in the organisation. We are very pleased that the Minister wants to invest in specialist detection. We will, of course, continue to follow this. It is also a good thing that the Minister is working to invest more in international detection, but it is obviously not just about dealing with requests for legal aid but also, for example, cross-border operational cooperation. The minister said about absenteeism that it takes him five years to sort of get rid of it. We think that's going to take a very long time. Maybe he can explain a little more about why he thinks he needs so much time. Furthermore, it's for our finger on the wrist. We would like to look into the further development of detectives in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u201	Thank you. This puts an end to the second term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. He can answer directly. Then I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mr. Chairman. I have five motions, a question from Mrs Den Boer and an observation from Mrs Buitenweg. To begin with, I agree with that observation. I think we should say to each other that we should focus on criminal law in particular, that the social order is not distorted by crime. Then there is Mrs Den Boer's question. I have already said something about it in my first term, namely that because of some of the specific problems faced by police officers and partly the fact that it has been influenced by the process of forming the national police, which many people have asked for, we must give a reasonable period of time to reduce absenteeism, as I indicated. When we spoke more specifically about this in connection with the plan of action, I also defended it in detail. So that's actually my reaction to that point. Then there's the motions. Mr Van Raak expressed the wish that the outcome of the negotiations should be accepted. I endorse that wish. It is precisely in order to strengthen this desire that I have said that I am committing myself to periodic reviews of the situation with regard to a number of agreed measures. But there's a negotiation agreement. If that is adopted and there will be a collective agreement, then we must now implement it together. This includes a number of agreements made by the unions in the framework of the provided National Police Recovery Plan. But we should not change the shape of what we have agreed on. So I need the motion in part no. 808 in that respect. Then the motion to part No. 809 by Mrs Helder, with the operative part: 'to increase the total number of detectives as much as possible'. Then I'll deal with the motion in part no. 812 by Mr Hiddema. It also refers to 'the wishes of the police', but I think that this motion is intended to say: calls on the government to respond to the opinion expressed in the Emergency Cry of the Unions. In both cases, however, there is considerable investment in the police. The division of these investments between people and resources has been discussed in great detail with the corps leadership and with the National Security and Police Consultation, in which all regional mayors are represented. That's where you came up with what you know. The cabinet then agreed to an additional amount of 58 million, in order to cope with the outflow in the coming years. I will not repeat it in all kinds of modernisations and efficiency measures in the field of detection. I believe that this is at least a major step forward. And we're gonna see how that works out in the next few years. So I have to disagree with the two motions in that regard, because they are asking for something which is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u203	The motions on the documents Nos. 809 and 812 have been dissuaded. Mrs. Helder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u204	With all due respect to Mr Hiddema, there is a fundamental difference between his motion and mine. I have called it an "effort commitment." I said: 'calls on the government to make every effort to increase the number of detectives during this cabinet period'. I am already taking into account the limited training capacity of the Police College. I have put 'preferably 2,000' in it, but that is not a hard figure, unlike Mr Hiddema's motion. I also said in my second term that I naturally understand and respect what is happening. But we can't get around the capacity, and that's why I filed that motion. So you could almost say that at least half of it is policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u205	Let's see if the Minister feels the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u206	Well, Mrs. Helder pointed to her past as a lawyer, a shared past of ours at that point of "the commitment to effort" as a legal concept. But in the case of an effort commitment, you have to accurately formulate the goal. And "as much as possible" is a subjective concept, which many parties in the House of Representatives would fill out differently. And rightly, because each has its own programme and priorities. I have underlined Mrs Helder's wish by arguing again what I am going to do, because I do. We're really focusing on the reinforcements of the police. But I must advise against the motion, because a motion that says 'you will do as much as possible and as much as 2,000', is 'as much as possible' in civil law already coloured by that term '2,000'. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. I'm sorry, but we're on the same page in many ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u207	Before you're both gonna hire a lawyer, one more time, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u208	If you want to get into politics, you have to change your mind. That is why I put in it: 'preferably as much as possible'. But I'm still trying to get a motion passed, because you're trying to do something. If I took out that "preferably 2,000," could the Minister give the motion the characteristic "support of policy"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u209	Look, it's support policy if you ask the government to continue to make every effort to strengthen the police during this cabinet period. That's support policy. If you amend the motion to that effect, I will immediately state that this is support policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u210	And that would mean "judge chamber." But first we have to see if that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u211	I very much recall that there have been motions from Mrs Helder during the short period I am working on, which is not yet a whole calendar year................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u212	Mrs Helder has every opportunity to amend the motion if necessary. That is what we see in the votes. If that happens, at least we'll know what your verdict is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u213	The proposed text is, I think, reflected in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u214	Okay, then we'll get to the motion in part no. 810.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u215	Yes. That motion concerns support policy. The motion calls for security services, Royal Marechaussee, Police and Customs to cooperate among themselves and with MBO and HBO, so that they can achieve optimal recruitment and selection. There are already initiatives for this. The first report can be expected by the Chamber in spring 2019. So the motion is support policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u216	And with that "judge chamber," I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u217	Yes. Then I have the motion in part number. 811 by Mr Hiddema, in which he calls for the immediate re-opening of as many police stations as possible. I would like to make it clear that the motion is very unspecified, but apart from that, I would like to point out that at the point of opening or closing the debate. It has always been a careful process with the local authorities who also have a very important voice in this. I have also pointed out in another context in your standing committee that the closure of certain police stations is often linked to the widespread use of digitalisation on the bike of the district agent. In Groningen I experienced this myself during a work visit. I also experienced it in the east of the country, in Dinkelland. I see that there are very good reasons for setting up a police station instead of a police station. I can only say that there is a good policy idea and a careful process behind it. I therefore advise against this motion which calls for the reopening of as many police stations as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u218	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u219	I would like to thank the Minister, his officials, the members and further support. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. Pay attention, because that is a change in the schedule; we are walking in. I assume that the work will then begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u220	There's a list of incoming items on the Registrar's table. That list contains proposals for the examination of these documents. If there is no objection to this before the end of the sitting, I assume that it will be accepted.
