ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	We shall continue with oral Question Time. I give Mr Koopmans, on behalf of the VVD, the floor for his questions to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who replaces the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. You're very welcome. I call Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It is right that, if you have a foreign nationality in the Netherlands, you can vote for foreign elections. Whether you're Spanish, Turkish or Peruvian, it doesn't matter. But now there are elections in Turkey. There is no free press in Turkey. At the moment there are 73 journalists, perhaps more, in prison. Even a presidential candidate is in prison. These elections are entirely dominated by President Erdogan. What do we see now? There are road signs along the Dutch highways to promote and facilitate these elections. This is the case in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Deventer. These signs are just along the highway. Then the question is whether President Erdogan's long arm extends to our Dutch motorways. Does our government facilitate and legitimize this Erdogan election? So I ask the Secretary of State what support the Dutch government, the Empire, the municipalities, gives to these elections and why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand the questions of Mr Koopmans very well. When you talk about elections in Turkey, it always makes you feel uncomfortable. We know that the situation in Turkey is extremely complex, that there is no rule of law according to our standards and that this has made relations with the Netherlands considerably more acute over the past period. You also know that we no longer have diplomatic relations through ambassadors. There are diplomatic contacts, but the ambassadors are no longer in office. This is all due to the situation in Rotterdam in March 2017. We want to avoid such situations in the future. Now it is true that the Dutch government has previously authorised elections organised by Turkey to facilitate logistics in the Netherlands, a country on which we have a lot of criticism. Of course, we do not have any real involvement in these elections. The Turkish government has asked to hold these elections in a number of locations in the Netherlands. This is very concrete in the municipalities of Deventer, Amsterdam and The Hague. Since there are about 250,000 voting Turks, this can lead to nuisances in traffic. You want to get ahead of that. That is precisely why the Dutch Government has said: make sure that these elections can take place in an orderly manner. This means that the local authority, in this case the municipalities, indicates by way of signposting where people can go so that dangerous traffic situations are avoided and the elections in the five days they take place can be conducted in an orderly manner. This is without prejudice, I would like to stress once again, to the fact that this does not mean that the Dutch Government in any way supports the way Turkey deals with human rights or the rule of law, for example, because we have been very critical of this. However, as in previous years, we have promised this facility support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	I understand that you want to avoid dangerous situations, but these signs are located along the Dutch highways, not exactly in places where people cause congestion. These signs are in many places throughout the country, so people can rightly get the impression that President Erdogan can influence the traffic situation here. Why? How much is this? Why are we doing this on such a large scale? It's not just around the corner of the ballot box; this is just along the Dutch highway!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	There is indeed one location at Deventer where a sign is placed next to the Dutch highway. This was done at the request of the municipality of Deventer with the agreement of Rijkswaterstaat. That sign is meant to lead people there to a parking lot from where they are taken, by the way, at the expense of the Turkish consulate, to the location where they can vote. Is Mr Erdogan, the President of Turkey, involved in any way in Dutch traffic policy? No, and of course it will remain that way. But this is meant for local authority to ensure that those potentially dangerous situations do not arise, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	However, I still cannot get an answer to my question. What does it cost, who pays and how is it organized? But I also ask: why is it in Turkish? When you're in the Netherlands, you speak Dutch, we say. Is that in Turkish too? And let me immediately ask the following question: where does it end? If Eritrea also organises an election and wants to have traffic signs, will the Dutch government also facilitate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	I can't tell you exactly what it costs. I can only say that there are no further costs for the Dutch government. We are not going to facilitate this in the financial sense. Those costs are for the Turkish consulate. When it comes to how this is organised, including in other countries, most countries choose to vote through a consulate or by written votes. Turkey has chosen to do so. I say again: they have done so in previous instances. However, the Dutch government has banned Turkish authorities, i.e. representatives of the Turkish government, from carrying out campaign activities in the Netherlands, given the experience we have gained in Rotterdam in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	But can I assume that the removal of these signs will also be financed by the Turkish state? It's not like that, is it? I would like an exact answer to that. How much is it? What does the Netherlands pay for these signs, which also contain words in Turkish? And where's the border? For which country do we facilitate the elections and for which country do we not? And finally, Chairman, does the Secretary of State share my concern? These elections in Turkey are taking place under very difficult conditions. There are journalists in prison and even candidates and politicians, apart from all the judges and teachers in prison. Those are the elections. Now there are signs along the Dutch highways that promote these elections. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	Once again, I understand the inconvenience of establishing a relationship between the situation in Turkey, on which almost the entire House of Representatives has a common view, and the fact that we are making that election possible. They were written by the Turks themselves. We are making it possible for them to be able to vote in three places, and we are talking about 250 000 voters. That includes the signs, of which the main text is indeed in Dutch and the text in Turkish, because there are also people who, for example, stay here temporarily and have a visa or study that are not powerful in Dutch; that is why it has been done. So I can imagine that uncomfortable feeling. But I would also point out that the elections in Iraq were also facilitated, at a location in Groningen where people could vote. It was less large, because it concerns fewer people who live here, but this is not only true for Turkey. But I am not going to take away the uncomfortable feeling that Mr Koopmans is showing here. I can endorse that. And the fact that the Dutch Government has given its consent to this is not automatic; let me put it this way. There is theoretically the possibility to say that you do not want this, but in this case it was not chosen. We have a number of other measures to mitigate the possible negative effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would like to look forward to a letter from the Secretary of State detailing how that is organized, what the costs are and how they are. Let me say first of all that it is a good thing that people in the Netherlands with a different nationality can vote at their embassy or consulate. That's a right, and whether you're Turkish, Belgian or Argentine, it doesn't matter. But there are limits and along the Dutch highway we now give the impression that we support what President Erdogan is doing there. I assume I find the Secretary of State next to me when I say that this is a very worrying development. I would be pleased if he would say very explicitly: we have no sympathy for the way in which these elections are organised there, and we do not want to further facilitate that in the Netherlands either. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. I think Mr Paternotte was there first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr President, I believe that Mr Koopmans had asked another question and I would like to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yes, of course. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	His question was whether I would like to go into a few more details. I will pass the request on to the Minister of the Interior so that she can do so. It's her wallet, but I think it's fine to make those costs transparent. Once again, there is no sympathy whatsoever for the way in which the Turkish Government acts. I would like to say that again. I have said a few things about this in this Parliament in the past. There wasn't a word of Spanish in there. I would like to leave it at that. I would also like to point out that we are making this possible for other countries, but only in a logistical sense. We want to get ahead of trouble. We're trying to avoid trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. Then Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	The fact that there are a number of road signs to show people the way and to avoid nuisance is really a footnote in a story that is actually much wider. The point is that the Turkish Government is trying in all kinds of ways to put pressure on Turkish Dutch people, last week, for example, by the letter delivered to tens of thousands of Turkish Dutch people without having ever chosen to share their address with a database in Ankara, which, of course, was intended to help the President of Turkey, Erdogan, in a situation in which he now has a serious opposition. My question is whether the Secretary of State, the Government, agrees with us that this letter is unacceptable and whether he is prepared to investigate whether it was contrary to our new privacy law, the GDPR, which requires people to give prior consent before they can be spammed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	The question should be short, Mr. Paternotte. Then the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	I fully understand Mr Paternotte's request, and I can also promise that I will pass it on to the Minister, who will look into it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	Then Mrs Becker, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	What matters about the VVD is that people who have lived in the Netherlands all their lives and who happen to have a Turkish passport have the freedom to make their own choices and that they focus on their future in the Netherlands and participate here. Then we must avoid that someone constantly pulls them from abroad, that there is a long arm that says: you must actually cooperate in more freedom in Turkey. So that happens in all kinds of ways...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	... with signs along the highway, but also indeed sending letters to people with Turkish passports by the Turkish AK party. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the Dutch government has cooperated in obtaining these addresses by the AK party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	On that question, I must remain guilty of the answer. I don't know about that, but we'll find out. I assume not, but I'll have that checked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	Then Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	Big trouble in this Chamber because of one election board. That is indeed the reason for asking these oral questions. The VVD makes that a very big point. The VVD also indicates, as the largest party in this Chamber, that a lot of people in this country can worry about that. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he, or the government, has ever considered putting a disclaimer on that board saying "we do not support Erdogan'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	I couldn't understand that last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	No. What was the last sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	A disclaimer, a caption, entitled "Hey, we as the Dutch government, we as facilitator, do not support Erdogan." Has that been an option that's been considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	Well, at least it's good on tape now, so thank you. No, we didn't consider that. We have not considered this, because that would mean that you are interfering with the substance. I think that people themselves are well placed to make a judgment about this, and on other platforms, at other times, the Dutch Government has given its opinion on how we should relate to Turkey and, in particular, on how Turkey should act itself. So I think that judgment is well known. If we were to do that, we would actually be using a kind of Turkish method, and I am not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you. I think we are now going to look at Mrs Marijnissen's question, because I think the Prime Minister is in the house. We'll wait for him.
