ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the report by the European Court of Auditors on the support operation for Greece. I welcome the Minister of Finance and give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for supporting this debate because, of course, we have been talking about Greece since 2010, where, as it now seems, support for that country is coming to an end. It is therefore good to take a look back at what all these billions have brought us now. Mr. Chairman. We're evaluating the Greek tragedy today. In 2009 the screens went black in Greece. They cheated on the case. The deficit did not appear to be 3,7%, not 6%, not 12,7% but 15,6%. Four times as high as reported. Since the introduction of the euro, this country has lived on the brink. The euro has enabled us to finance ourselves at very low interest rates. The investors were in line and at some point the interest rate in Greece was even lower than in Germany. The money borrowed couldn't be used. It was a big party. The government apparatus grew to almost 900,000 officials. One in four Greeks suddenly became a civil servant. Retirement costs were falling apart. Anyone could retire early and the care was free for everyone. It was like an episode of Sun, sea and hospital. 'Cause of all the partying, of course there was a hangover. The Minister of Finance revealed the actual deficit in autumn 2009, which was many times higher than reported. Afterwards, the deficit was adjusted upwards again by the new director of Elstat, the Greek CPB. They are now persona non grata and sentenced to conditional prison sentences, because the truth should not be brought out. They were seen as traitors. That's Greece today. The Minister of Finance was convicted for bringing out the La Garde list. That brings me to the first question. How's that La Garde list coming? I don't hear about that anymore. Is he still in the cover-up? Mr. Chairman. The Greek hangover was passed on to European citizens. Greece has now received 275 billion in aid. The Netherlands stands for 20 billion. The question is, did this help? The European Court of Auditors examined this and came to the hardest conclusion: hardly. The conclusions don't lie. There were no procedures. Conditions were far too vague and unmeasurable and supervision was inadequate. There was a lack of a growth strategy and no consideration of the social consequences. In short, the European Commission did nothing. The euro should and should be saved. Money didn't matter. It was a prestige issue. The European Commission was throwing our tax dollars in the hope that the crisis would go away on its own. All the rules were lapped and the no-bail-out clause was ignored. Banks and investors kicked off the dance. The whole Greek debt was placed on the European taxpayer's plate. They weren't asked. Despite these billions of aid, we saw the Greek economy sink. It was getting worse from evil to worse. The economy fell by more than a quarter. The debts amounted to over 180%. Unemployment rose and 200,000 companies went bankrupt. In short, it was a battlefield. The Greek banks are still making losses and are wearing bad loans. Okay, the civil service is pretty thinned out with 225,000 officials, but they weren't fired, but they were retired early. It is not surprising, of course, that pension costs are nowhere as high as in Greece. And that's for us to pay. Mr. Chairman. In short, we are hundreds of billions away and we have barely made any progress. That is because the real problem for Greece has not been solved. And that's the euro. It is a pity that we will never know how Greece would have gone if they had left the euro, but I am sure that the country would have been much better. They could have devalued the drachma, reduced interest rates and thereby stimulated the economy. Export, investment, consumption, tourism could have flourished without seriously damaging the economy. Mr President, the Greek tragedy is proof that a single currency for 17 such different countries is not working and will never work. The euro knows nothing but losers. You are depriving countries of the opportunity to compete and the euro will only widen the gap between north and south. I'm not just saying that. That's what Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz says. I therefore recommend to this Minister that he read his book 'The euro, I have it with me, he may borrow it 'because the dismantling of the euro is the only option. Moving forward will lead to immense costs, instability, depression, persistent low growth and high unemployment. Mr. Chairman. The sooner we stop the euro, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u4	Dramatic, destructive, staggering, messy, those were the qualifications that various commentators gave to the content of last year's European Court of Auditors report. In other words, the European Court of Auditors has made it perfectly clear that the European Commission has fucked up a highly troubled eurozone country in a professional way. It is not the task of the European Court of Auditors to blackmail, it is the task of the European Court of Auditors to check whether the European Union's financial resources are being used properly and whether they are being used efficiently. It is therefore important to take a good look at what has gone wrong here and ask the key question what we can learn from this report. The Court's conclusions are not easy. It makes a devastating assessment of the European Commission's action in particular. In this way, the European Commission proved unable and unwilling to evaluate its own work. The economic forecasts for Greece were always wrong, poorly substantiated, and the Commission failed to see whether Greece was in a position to actually implement the reforms and cuts imposed. In short, there was no scenario. The hard austerity policy during the euro crisis leaves its mark everywhere. In our country we see that the police say that only one in nine crimes can be dealt with. We see teachers sighing under too big classes and every day we feel that care has been broken down far too hard. How can we sell this if the European Commission is not even able to evaluate or have its own work evaluated? We remain silent about other Member States. Suicide figures in Greece, which this report is about, about the support operation, but also, for example, a whole generation of Spanish young people who saw their youth go up in smoke because of the tough cuts made by the new President of the European Central Bank. No job, no future, no life. All made possible by austerity policy. Another important conclusion of the European Court of Auditors was that the International Monetary Fund did have expertise, but it did have an overview. It writes that, but that institution has always been overruled by the Commission's technocrats. This then led to a serious conflict with the IMF on how to deal with the crisis. The IMF's objections focused on the excessive austerity policy, the failure to set aside a level of public debt which is acceptable to Greece. And the European Court of Auditors agrees with the IMF in its report. According to the IMF, it was clear that amounts borrowed from Greece would not return during this aid operation. And yet politicians in Europe, here too, said all the money comes back, with interest. This de facto confirms that the European Commission's primary drive was political, saving the euro, rather than economic, saving Greece. What lessons should we learn here today, I ask the Minister? What should be the course of a troika as far as he is concerned in the future when we see that this was a dramatic course? Why should we read half of the history of this euro crisis back in the book of the former Greek Finance Minister Varoufakis? What does this actually say about the democratic legitimacy of the euro group? Now the Minister has found a number of countries willing to stand up with him against the plans for the further development of the Euro of Macron and Merkel. It's always good to find comrades. But that countersound is actually an echo from the past. Does he even have the idea that with this coalition, with these comrades, he'll take a new path? Or is he just going down the road that the Court of Auditors is cutting off from? With this new coalition of the Minister, will we not once again swim uncritically in the throes of austerity policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. Whoever burns his buttocks should be on the blisters. Certainly as a liberal, I support the idea that people and countries are primarily responsible for their actions and actions. But if the fire is so intense that it becomes real that it goes out to your own house and to your neighbor's houses, then it really gets a little more complicated. In order to help put out the fire, it becomes the motto. This is certainly true in the case of Greece. It wasn't always easy and it certainly didn't go with great enthusiasm, not even in this house, but in the end it was also in our own interest. Now that the fire slowly seems to extinguish, it's crucial to continue packing. It is not for nothing that we recently discussed in plenary the further completion of EMIR architecture, the respect and enforcement of rules and the fact that Member States themselves are responsible for putting their own house in order. This responsibility cannot be handled lightly. If things go wrong, then we have a lot of trouble. And we speak from experience. Today, on the basis of the special report by the European Court of Auditors, we are looking back at the so-called macroeconomic adjustment programmes for Greece, in particular the first two programmes and in particular their management by the European Commission. The report also sets out in detail what the ECA has not looked at. That makes this debate somewhat flawed, I say right away. The Greek authorities, as Mr Van Dijck has already mentioned, have played a crucial role in bringing about the crisis, but also in subsequent processes. This has been largely ignored in the investigation. The baseline scenario has not been studied either. In any case, I do consider the report to be interesting and relevant. I also note, however, that there are clear restrictions on the basis of this to arrive at a complete assessment of the success or failure of the Greek support programmes. The third programme is still in progress. Mr. Chairman. This minister himself has said several times that the Greek programme had to be drawn up in the context of acute risks to the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. For me, therefore, the main intervention logic is as follows: to prevent the rest of the eurozone from being dragged into the Greek crisis, with all the consequences. It has already been said: successive Greek governments had completely out of control. Even after the request for financial assistance, the Greek authorities did everything they could, and for a very long time too, not to give rise to any confidence in Greek adaptability. Think of the failure to meet deadlines over and over again, the issuing of a referendum, impossible promises to the Greek people and so on. Now, the ECA, the European Court of Auditors, rightly raises a number of omissions, shortcomings and errors in the design, monitoring and implementation of the programmes. On this basis, it makes a number of recommendations which the committee has immediately indicated it will accept. I think it is good news that many of these recommendations have already been put into practice. The minister's predecessor also said quite clearly: mistakes have been made, no doubt, but we have not been in such a situation before. That's a fact. This is also emphasised by the European Court of Auditors. Whether we like it or not, the instruments to curb the crisis have gradually developed and improved. In the meantime, we can see that Greece has implemented a huge amount of necessary reforms. Whether the positive effects of this will be structural will depend above all on the persistence and perseverance of the Greek authorities. And exactly that remains a concern for me as well. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect on this. The following question is not insignificant: is an appropriate monitoring framework now being developed as a matter of urgency for the period after the end of the programmes? I have one final question, Mr President. I would also like to hear what is going on with the deferred and unobserved conditions. I refer in particular to Annex 7. Is this still being followed up? For example, have conditions lapsed or been replaced? I would like to hear a further response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u7	Of course, Greece is not saved at all. We saved our banks and saved our euro, but at a high price. Greece's public debt is now higher than before the crisis broke out. The employment situation there is dramatic. They had to sell their ports, their airports, everything. Nowadays you have to cook yourself in the hospital if you have to use it. Can the VVD indicate here whether, if it looks back on this, it believes that there has been a good path through the troika with the hard austerity policy? Or does she say that I think that next time it should be less harsh on land and a bit more harsh on, for example, the sector itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u8	I started by saying: whoever burns his buttocks must be on the blisters. Successive governments in Greece have failed to act. In fact, they have deliberately turned their eyes on the Greek people as well. I will not deny that the excessive borrowing behaviour of Northern European banks has contributed to the risk of contagion for the euro area as a whole and that this has also been an important part of the European Union's intervention logic. However, in the run-up to this debate, I also took Greece's macroeconomic figures. They all show a positive trend. So I do not share the image that Mrs Leijten has just outlined. Greece isn't here yet. I also indicated that it will be really exciting or the positive effects will continue. That falls or stands for the perseverance of the Greek authorities. But all of this shows a positive trend in employment rates, falling unemployment, falling poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u9	One in four adults is poor, very poor. One in six children I say it out of my head; maybe it's one in seven, but at least there's a lot of them growing up in bitter poverty. And the government debt is higher than before the crisis began. I don't think it's going so bright at all. The decline in unemployment rates in Greece is mainly due to the disappearance of young people because there is no perspective. I had another question. If you are falsifying the books and you are lying not only to your own people but also to the eurozone, then of course there must be consequences. But this was with the cooperation of the same financial sector. The revaluation agencies that finally destroyed Greece have also signed up to the credit rating of that country. There were accountants in the game who signed under those wrong annual reports. There were banks in the game that were fine with that, because they had so many loans out. Now we have had a Greek rescue, which in the end has not been a rescue from the country but a rescue from the financial sector. Should we not say in the future: if there is a need for an aid operation, then the financial sector must also bleed? Then it is not only the people who have to turn in, but also the financial sector. Then, for example, we are not going again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u10	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u11	... to relax bonus rules for the financial sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u12	There's really a lot going on around here. There is one point I would like to make: the restructuring of debt. In my view, Mrs Leijten also refers to the introduction of the SDRM mechanism, which we discussed in plenary recently. I am very much in favour of that. It cannot be that we are going to see the scenario that has unfolded here again. That is exactly why we are all discussing the further completion of EMU architecture. But I do notice today that Greece is better off than we could have imagined a few years ago. I also note that Greece's bankruptcy had not helped the Greek population in an inch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u13	Has the VVD not actually looked away from the risks for far too long when it was assessed in 2000 whether Greece could be admitted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u14	If you are working on the basis of data that is incorrect, there can indeed be an outcome that you are thinking with retroactive effect: shouldn't that have been otherwise? Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u15	That's a little too easy. I looked in the 2000 Acts and at that time we had Professor De Haan of the CDA. This is what he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u16	I'm with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u17	I'm well aware of that, but honor who deserves credit. Mr De Haan was then a member of this Chamber. He said: "Too much has been used of one-off tricks to reduce the budget deficit and in the longer term you will always encounter yourself, so the experience learns. Moreover, the Minister failed to explain why Greece would be able to take all the logistical and legal measures in a year and a half in order to be able to implement the euro on 1 January 2002." You, Mrs. Hennis-Plasschaert, your VVD just didn't want to see it. This story was warned, but the euro project had to go ahead and the VVD, together with the PvdA and even the SP, simply voted against this motion not to include Greece in the euro. You just wanted it too badly and didn't properly assess the risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u18	The world is going crazy and we're going back to the year 2000. I wasn't part of this house back then. In fact, I lived in Riga, Latvia. But I did say something else then, which I also repeated later in my time as a MEP and in my time as a Member of this Chamber: whether it is about enlargement of the European Union or accession to the euro area, there is something that is constantly introducing a new sliding scale. In advance, all kinds of rules and criteria are laid down in order to rule too much politically at the moment whether a country is ready to do so. This is extremely dangerous in the case of the enlargement of the European Union, and it is even more risky in the case of the euro area. So I'm really opposed to that. The agreements we made with each other must be kept strictly in place, and that is precisely the debate we had here a few weeks ago, because the euro cannot ultimately be a political project.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u20	Do you mind if I close up a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u21	You're welcome to lock up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u22	Thank you. That's something new?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u23	This is a one-time thing. A conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u24	I am pleased that Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert indicated that it was also a political balance and not just a financial one, because the figures were dramatic at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mrs Hennis just accused politics in Greece of cheating, but the VVD of course also tricked the citizens. They won the election twice with the promise "not a penny to Greece," but in the end we transferred 275 billion of which 20 billion from the Netherlands to Greece. In this respect, the VVD can take an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u26	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u27	Looking back to 2010 I see Mr Frans Weekers standing here: "No bail-out!" Would Mrs. Hennis have done it again, looking back and 275 billion further, or would she have stuck to that "no bail-out" of Frans Weekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u28	First of all about breaking election promises: I understand that we all have a huge pile of butter on our heads here, but that also applies to Mr Van Dijck and the PVV. I am thinking just of raising the age of AOW after the 2010 elections if we go back in time. Would we have done it again? I think that we can now, at this stage, draw lessons and, therefore, formulate very clearly what we no longer want. That does not mean any more in this way, and certainly not with the shock movements that took place at the time when the programmes for Greece were being drawn up. So yes, Mr Van Dijck is talking about like-dan situations; looking back you would all do differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u29	That is interesting, because the question is, of course, how would Mrs Hennis do it differently? We all hope that Greece will be able to return to the capital market after the summer, but it is very doubtful whether the capital market is waiting to borrow one dime from Greece. They did not want that in 2010 and perhaps they do not want that in 2018. The question is whether Greece is in trouble again. And that's why an EMF is being rigged up, and then it's gonna be back with Greece. Will the VVD continue: after the summer of 2018 not a penny more to Greece? Is that what she says for the third time? Or does the VVD say: well, then we introduce a fourth support package?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u30	I spoke a little bit the other day about the VVD trauma and the third support package. Mr Van Dijck just referred to that himself. But I don't think anyone's jumping for a fourth program right now. All kinds of technical discussions need to be initiated in order to form an opinion at all. I am certainly not jumping, the VVD is not jumping, you are not jumping, the Greeks are not jumping and the other Member States are not jumping. What I do think is important is the supervisory framework that I was just talking about. After all, it comes down to capturing the positive effects that we are seeing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Hennis. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr. Chairman. It is a cliché, but I do not have a better description for it either; we have witnessed a Greek tragedy in recent years. It is a tragedy which I believe has led to a great deal of bitterness in Greece, but also in northern European countries, among people and politicians. It is also a tragedy that has not done any good for confidence in Europe and the euro. The troika's actions were harsh, with little respect for democratic accountability. The Greeks have been dragged through the mud because northern political leaders were afraid to tell us that the crisis was not only due to the Greeks themselves, but also to us, to the rich North. It was also our banks who spent years looking for quick returns and too easy to lend capital. It was also because of our moderate wage policy that Dutch and German workers have been underpaid for over a decade and southern countries are undermining their competitiveness. It was also our preoccupation with debt and fine, which meant that debts were not forgiven. But the other side is also true; the Greeks also owe this misery to their own government policies, to bullshit with figures and public debt that were too high in 2007. They owe it to an economy that was committed to vested interests and powerful oligarchs who formed a kongsi with Greek politics. That is why there are lessons to be learned from both sides. The Greek side is that structural problems have never been addressed and have been at the expense of the population. And in the coming years too, I agree with Mrs Hennis that the necessary reforms will have to be worked hard, not only for the wealthy but also for all Greeks. But the implementation of the programmes also deserves serious consideration. The European Court of Auditors' report is tough; there was no growth strategy, no strategy that would eventually lead to social improvement, there were countless tax measures without the tax authorities being in order, and there was three times a programme to solve the debt problem, while debt has for the time being been pushed forward and still untenable. How does the Minister view these observations by the Court of Auditors? The lessons of the Greek programmes should also be about decision-making, especially as this means something for the way in which we set up the ESM or the EMF. It was, quite frankly, an administrative spaghetti; it was poor between countries, between institutions, between the Eurogroup and the European Commission, with poor democratic control. Do we really want that the same way again? Or do we want to think about a structure in which both democratic legitimacy and the careful implementation of programmes are better guaranteed? And I do not believe that this is possible if we stick to veto rights for all Member States. In fact, I find it incomprehensible that the government's position is that the control of national states should be maintained in full. This is what the Minister writes this week in his non-paper with the high-northern alliance. The high-northern alliance; I think we are getting further and further away from Europe's axis. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The Greek economy is improving. However, the question remains whether Greece will really be able to return to the capital market itself after the summer, or whether there will be a need for emergency lines. How does the Minister see that? I think debt relief is inevitable in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Snels. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing we're having this debate. Like the arrangements for the work in which this debate was requested, the Court of Auditors' report on support for Greece and the discussion we had with them contained good lessons for the future. The Court's conclusions were firm here and there: no clear internal procedures within the Commission, only informal agreements on cooperation between the Commission, IMF and ECB, and little regard for how the measures in the package should be implemented in practice. The mitigating circumstance, as has already been mentioned, is, of course, that the Commission had a lack of experience with programmes like this. That is why it is difficult to understand that no self-evaluation has been carried out after the first and second programmes. Mr. Chairman. The next crisis will undoubtedly be another one, but these lessons will allow us to ensure that we are better prepared for that crisis. One of the lessons I think is that more attention should be paid to the effects on growth. The question is how we can only learn this lesson afterwards, while growth was one of the three pillars of the programme. Then how can we better guard this in the future? D66 wants if a country receives money from the European budget, we can also guarantee that reforms are being implemented for which that money was intended. The Court of Auditors shows that ownership of a programme country is essential for its implementation and also that conditionality is crucial. We must also ensure that these agreed measures can be implemented at all. For example, enlightenment can come from better deployment and use of technical assistance, not only in an emergency situation such as in Greece, but also now, if we were to do it in good times under the MFF. Does the Minister share this idea? Is he willing to take the lead in organizing this? I believe that the establishment of the EMF, the European Monetary Fund, also offers an opportunity to institutionalise some of the lessons we draw from this report. Last Friday, the Prime Minister said that he wanted the EMF, and I quote, 'the current role of the Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism in support programmes to be brought under one roof'. My question to the Minister is whether he can explain this further. What role should the ECB play in the EMF? The Prime Minister also said that negotiating, financing and monitoring support programmes are part of the EMF, as are independent economic analyses such as warning system and debt restructuring mechanism. In my view, on the basis of this report and the European Commission's response to it, we have seen that for successful programmes the checks-and-balances and good cooperation between different institutions are crucial. How does the Minister see that in shaping the EMF in the future, we have those lessons in it? As far as I am concerned, this is also about the role of the European Court of Auditors, which must have the power to monitor the content, effectiveness and effectiveness of the programmes. The lack of the zero scenario has already been mentioned, but in the end, of course, you want to be able to make an assessment of it as a political one. What was the effectiveness? That is what D66 ultimately wants with this: institutionalise the lessons of the report during the forthcoming reforms at European level and ensure that we also build a learning system. Good auditors with adequate powers are needed for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u35	I hear Mr Sneller saying that the European Court of Auditors should have more powers. Now I am working on a motion that says that the European Court of Auditors should also monitor the EFSF, the ESM and the ECB. Do you intend to support them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u36	I always like to see the exact text. In any case, we have recently supported Mr Snels' motion to extend the supervision of the European Court of Auditors. How that will take shape in the future... I believe that you will hear that I want to ensure that this is more secure in relation to the European Monetary Fund, which includes a number of these functions. So I'll take a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u38	I am very pleased with Mr Sneller's speech, because that is an argument which seeks to draw lessons from the Greek programmes. I think they see two things. The first is the implementation of the programmes, i.e. ownership and all the questions involved. But these lessons are also seen in decision-making. That decision was hectic. There was administrative chaos. Now the Minister writes in his non-paper, and before to the Chamber, that all veto rights of Member States must be maintained. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u39	I understand Mr Snels' question very well. I think it is important that we also look at the structure of the EMF. We have discussed this extensively so far in more technical debates in the Ecofin and on treatment retention. I fully understand the preference for maintaining these vetos at the highest level. In emergency situations, only a few countries have that, as Mr Snels also knows. But then, in my view, it is also important to look at how to shape this precisely within such a European Monetary Fund. Mrs Leijten praised the technocrats of the IMF so that it could show expertise and decisiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u40	May I give you an example? I can also imagine that Member States have a lot of say when it comes to a "go/no go" decision if there is to be support. However, we have now also seen that there have been veto rights of Member States over and over each instalment of aid. I believe that this has hampered the implementation of the programme. Could that be one of the arguments for a more nuanced approach to the role of Member States in the decision-making process and thus in the implementation of these programmes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u41	I did not read that in the report of the European Court of Auditors. But in general, there is always reason to look at that nuancedly. In it you will find me by your side. I just don't see the burden of proof for that in this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u42	No, Mr. Snels, you can't ask another question. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr Sneller said that I praised the technocrats of the IMF. Feels a little crazy for a SP guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u44	That's why I said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u45	But the IMF was at least the organization within the troika that looked more realistically at how the demands of the aid package would fall in Greece and what the consequences would be for the population, but also for the economy. That's what I heard you say. The European Commission has shown a lack of self-reflection, at that time there was no plan and no evaluation of the first aid package, but actually a bit during the European Court of Auditors' investigation, nor was it really prepared to show self-reflection. Would it not be very good, then, that at least this always happens, that you look objectively at economic growth, and that it is not made too political by the European Commission, as in this case, or in the future by a European Monetary Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u46	The strange thing is that the Court of Auditors' report actually states that the forecasts of the various organisations were relatively close. So there wasn't much light in there. Furthermore, I think it would be wise for the European Commission to... That's what's happening now. In reply to Mrs Leijten's questions, it was also said that this is happening at a time when it is being held up. I think that is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. There's a whole bunch of economic teachers in the bleachers. They know better than anyone that if you make debts, you have to pay them off at some point. And a deal is a deal. That's what we teach our students in economics classes. This debate is taking place today in connection with the payment of the third instalment to Greece and the third aid package. The Christian Union was against this package of support. In the words of then group chairman Arie Slob, who said in August 2015: "It may be clear that the Christian Union Group cannot support this package of support and measures to Greece, some of which is breaking down further. We are talking about solutions that really help the Greeks: exit from the euro area, absolving part of the Greek debt and helping the Greeks, through European funds, to rebuild the country." Mr. Chairman. In essence, this still seems to me to be a better option for Greece than the aid packages decided upon. Basically, it will remain extremely complicated, for example, to allow the Dutch and Greek economies to converge, especially within a currency union with a "one size fits all" approach. Or rather: one size fits none. However everyone looks at this, the facts so far are that there is more divergence than convergence. In other words, the question is whether Greece will ever really make it on its own in our currency union. In any case, the third aid package is there. It's running and it's about to end again. In the meantime, the third instalment has been paid out. And if the conditions are met, that is also a logical matter, because here too we have an agreement. At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister what exactly is the situation with regard to the implementation of all agreements by Greece. In 2018, for example, Greece should take all kinds of measures in the area of pensions and taxation. Mrs Leijten mentioned it: there are elderly people in Greece who cannot pay their bills and children who are hungry. It's just really bad out there. How are we gonna make this better? That is the great question for the Christian Union. And what is the actual situation with regard to the return of loans to the capital market in the course of this year? Mr Van Dijck mentioned that point. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. Is Greece going to succeed again or will it prove that this last aid package was not the last aid package? If we are going to help Greece, please do so with structural measures. We can take it right now, in a high-end economy. Because Greece seems to be doing well now, but in the next recession new thunder clouds are threatening. Mr President, so much for my first contribution. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr Tony van Dijck has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u50	Let me take a look at the "one size fits none" principle, because we agree on that. However, in the current methods, this cabinet chooses to muddle with that scenario of seventeen countries in the euro. The question is, of course, how the Christian Union will behave as a coalition partner if Greece needs a fourth support package in the near future. Is the Christian Union going to say: take the drachma and figure it out; appointment is appointment and no bail-out? Or does the Christian Union say: well, we've said yes three times now; then we'll do it the fourth time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u51	I said in the great euro debate we had a while ago that the Christian Union is still in favour of clear exit criteria for euro countries. If countries simply fail to get the budget in order and keep public debt under control, then there must also be an opportunity for those countries to leave, indeed to devalue and keep their economies running. Membership of the currency union is a major problem for Greece. It gives perverse incentives in the system, so no one really knows how to get on top of it. I am convinced that we must acknowledge this at some point. The longer we wait for this recognition, the more difficult it will be for Greece and also the greater the debt that we will not see repaid. That's a gloomy scenario. At the same time, I do not want to anticipate the decision-making process as it stands, because I want to stick to what I have just said: what is needed for Greece are structural measures that are good for Greece, for Europe and for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u52	Yes, but it is clear that the euro does not work with 17 countries so different. As long as that problem isn't solved, you'll always keep the problem. An EMF is now being prepared with 500 billion, precisely so that these imbalances around these countries can be smoothed out by the euro by 500 billion. Because Italy is in line and Spain is in line, just like Portugal. In other words, the euro is the problem. I understood that the Christian Union recognised this, but as long as the Christian Union does not act on it, we continue to pump money into those countries. The Christian Union should not want that now as a coalition partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u53	I do not agree with Mr Van Dijck that the euro is the problem. The euro that we now have is a problem, because it goes hand in hand with violating agreements we made in the 1990s as European countries. If the countries comply with the commitments we have made in the field of budgets and public debt, this euro can develop into a very healthy currency. At the same time, I would like the Greeks to be able to leave if that would be better for them, but we do not have exit criteria. We don't even know how that works. We also do not know what the consequences would be if this were to spread to other countries. That was, of course, a great fear at the time of the crisis. I think we need to keep a wide range of roads open, but above all we need to ensure that this is not at the expense of the solidarity and democratic developments that we have in Europe and that we must, above all, look for a third way. That is not so much disintegrating into different currencies, as Mr Van Dijck has advocated, but it is also not muddling on the road we are going. It must be a way to a strong currency, where agreement is a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u54	I think Mr Van Dijck was actually asking the wrong question. Mr Bruins' speech was a bit gloomy, but my gloom is a bit of the Greek public debt. I think the first question we have is whether we are going to give Greece further debt relief or even debt relief. Does Mr Bruins agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u55	Removing debt is one aspect. In my view, the situation is rather bleak at the moment. Public debt has increased compared to the moment for the aid packages. It is very unclear to me whether Greece can stand on its own feet in the middle of this year. Well, that's gonna have to prove it. I think it would still be a better option for Greece if we let it go out of the euro area, rid it of some of the debt and then give it aid through the European funds in a way that is more social than the measures that are currently being chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u56	I believe that the question does not arise as to whether Greece should be excluded from the euro. I think we have passed that station a long time ago and I wouldn't be in favour of that either; neither would the Greeks themselves. If you look at the public debt and the repayment obligations for the years to come, you'll see that in two years' time there's another big spike. The real political question, which is always complicated in Europe too, is: should we not end up getting rid of debts? Do I then find Mr Bruins by my side to ensure that we do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr President, the IMF already concludes that Greece's debts are unsustainable. We can read in the European Court of Auditors' report of November and which is the subject of this debate, that the Court of Auditors almost concludes that these debts are unsustainable. The question is when are we going to face the truth? That is a risk weighting and a political choice. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we had already seen this in 2010. The debt has gone on. We all hope and pray that the Greeks will get better, but then something really has to happen in dealing with government and government debt in that country. This is a decision for the future that does not yet exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u58	Just for my reassurance, Mr. President, before we have a sort of Chamber majority here to write off debts. When it comes to the debt mountain that Greece is facing, there are several mechanisms that you can think of: extending its maturity, lowering interest rates and more. Can I assume, Mr President, that we agree on this and that we do not have to rush into debt write-off immediately? This will also enable us to write off the outstanding Dutch loans, and I am not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u59	Fortunately, we have the very nice word'restructuration' for that. The restructuring of debt and that includes a lot of it. There are a lot of mechanisms to relieve the burden on Greece. For example, we can take more years or another build-up of the payoff. Of course, I believe that we should use the maximum creativity to ensure first of all that the money comes back, that Greece can pay off the debts very neatly and that Greece has time to set up the government and the country properly so that it can be a beautiful and healthy country again, as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Today we are discussing the European Court of Auditors' report of 16 November. Fortunately, we were supported by Mr Sneller, who accidentally supported this debate and we are sitting here in a majority debate. Thank you for this! The conclusion of the European Court of Auditors, President, is threefold. Firstly, in the short term, the Greek debt crisis should not be allowed to pass on to other countries. This is also the major success of the 2010 stabilisation programme. Secondly, the European Court of Auditors concludes that only limited progress has been made on structural reforms. Third, it is concluded that in mid-2017, 7 years after the outbreak of the Greek debt crisis, the country still did not have full access to capital markets. We do not know what this will be like in a few months' time. The European Court of Auditors mentions a number of critical points in the report. The Court notes that the Commission had no experience with such rescue programmes. The European Court of Auditors says that the conditions and requirements of Greece have been established in an unclear manner. There was no strategy for the approach and, moreover, the macroeconomic assumptions for the programmes were not correct. In normal Dutch: it was just wood-rope and unprepared muddering. The report also concludes that the European Court of Auditors can only monitor actions taken by the European Commission. The IMF, the ECB, the EFSF and the ESM are outside the mandate of the European Court of Auditors. That is, of course, extremely strange. In the meantime, the EFSF and the ESM account for 375 billion in taxpayers' money. The ECB has some EUR 2,200 billion mainly in government bonds on the balance sheet and the European Court of Auditors cannot control this on behalf of European taxpayers. That is impossible: hundreds of billions of euros are spent, but they do not know where it is going. That is not possible with regard to DENK. At this point, I am considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. If only we could turn the clock back 16 years and not allow Greece to enter the euro area with retroactive effect. I just said that Professor Henk de Haan of the CDA saw it very well at the time. But the rest of the Chamber voted by majority with Greece as a member of the euro area. And indeed, Mr Bruins said it as the RPF and the GPV, the forerunners, were also against accession. But the PvdA, the SP, GroenLinks, D66 and the VVD really had butter on their heads. And then you shouldn't stand in the sun. A dramatic mistake, as it turned out afterwards. The lesson that we can learn from the Greek tragedy is that we should not allow countries in the euro area that are simply not ready to do so economically. This is about competitiveness, about public finances, but also about having a reliable statistical agency and a tax administration that can collect money. Greece has been put under curate in a humiliating manner. That is extremely regrettable and dramatic. The Greeks are a proud people who have now had to bite the dust as a result of the great European project. At present there is still no full access to capital markets for Greece. The government debt is 181%. There is economic growth, but at 2.5% it is also relatively low. Gross domestic product is far from achieving that of 2009, for the debt crisis. Unemployment is still far too high at 20%. Fortunately, however, there is another surplus in the budget. Mr President, I will conclude. Ultimately, a more structural solution will have to be found. A number of colleagues spoke about this. It will really lie in the context of debt restructuring and debt restructuring. That every penny comes back, including interest, as CDA Minister Jan Kees de Jager once promised, is of course just an illusion. It takes a huge amount of political courage not to meet this illusion, but to pierce it. It's hard to explain to your own constituents that loaned taxpayers' money doesn't come back. The alternative is to muddle with Greece. I would like to hear from the Minister what perspective he sees. What does the Minister think will be the final solution for Greece? How can Greece finally be made financially sound again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr. Chairman. EU support to Greece has ensured that the other countries are not infected with the Greek crisis. The support programmes and the harsh conditions have led to things for Greece. The European Court of Auditors' report shows that it did not go well. Greek government debt is high: 181%. As a result of negative macroeconomic developments and interest charges, the debt ratio continued to grow, including during the support programmes. The Minister states in his letter that the debt ratio will fall to 96% in 2060. So they're stuck with it for a while. That is why the CDA asked for the euro, and it has been referred to here several times already, that Greece would not participate in the euro. We did not think the third aid package was the right way to go either. Yet we have followed this path. I agree with Mr Bruins that, now that Greece meets the conditions, these tranches must also be paid out. However, I would like to know what this aid has brought. My first question is about fiscal aid. The Dutch Tax Administration would help the Greek tax authorities. We would like to have a progress report on what this exchange, or at least that assistance to the Greek tax authorities, has brought about. As my predecessor has just said, that was a major problem. The second is the ECB. The ECB shall have an independent mandate. The European Commission is getting a lot of criticism, the ECB is getting a little less. Why? Because he wasn't getting checked out. Let me take a look ahead. The Greek crisis is EUR 368 billion, but EUR 2 500 billion is open to buy-back programmes from the ECB. That should be one of today's lessons. Does the Minister intend to write a letter to the ECB asking it to open itself up to monitoring, like De Nederlandsche Bank, both the supervision of banks and the supervision of banks, because we are about to enter into a banking union as well as the buying-in programme, or at least the way in which control is carried out? 'Cause we could learn that lesson anyway. The Court concludes that the European Commission's programmes encouraged reforms and prevented Greece from failing. But we're not there yet. For example, it is concluded that the Greek banking aid will not actually be repaid to the Greek State. That has not been a political decision. What are the consequences? I'd like a response from the Minister. The reason I'm saying this is that in all the calculation models we never see the writing off of that bank debt. Is the Minister prepared to ask the Central Planning Office, for example, what would happen if the banking sector collapses in a country and bank debts are not repaid? I have a second question in that context. There is a motion calling for a zero measurement of the risks in all those banking sectors. Let me now call Italy by name. When are we gonna get that zero reading? That zero measurement is very important, because if programs go wrong there, then we really have a big problem. The EU constantly repeats mistakes, because these models make the money come back. But if the money does not come back, then I want to know what the aid programmes of the future European Monetary Fund are going to look like. Finally, there is another point, Mr President. Greece is faced with a massive bribery scandal by the Swiss pharmaceutical Novartis. The suspicion lies on a former Prime Minister, actually on several former prime ministers, and on the current Greek Commissioner. The Greek Prime Minister Tsipras and his party have set up a parliamentary committee. I think it's a good thing they're tackling their own problems right now. This may have cost the Greek health sector EUR 4 billion. The ordinary Greek citizen pays it, but also the European taxpayer, who actually paid everything in Greece. Now that the Minister has very good contacts in Europe, and it is good that he gets seven countries together! I would like to ask him to go with his colleagues to the European Anti-Fraud Office OLAF and to ensure that this provides support to fully investigate this corruption scandal, so that the money comes back to the Greek taxpayer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Why are you looking at me so weird, Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u65	I was expecting some interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u66	That's what I thought. You're not used to it, Mr. Ommzigt, that you're not being interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u67	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u68	Does the Minister need a short suspension? That's the case. I'm suspending the meeting for ten to fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u69	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Members of your Chamber for the many questions and also for the many comments on this very important and extremely complex subject. I realise that some Members have also referred to the fact that the debate could not have been there either. But towards Mr Van Dijck I am the first to acknowledge that this subject is of great importance and probably will remain with us for some time to come. So it's good that we're talking about that. We are talking today primarily about the report of the European Court of Auditors, but some of the questions were also on or over the edge of this debate. I will take this part of it and, to some extent, have it discussed in the AA tomorrow when we talk again about the Eurogroup and the Ecofin. It is good to note that the report we are discussing today is the report prepared by the European Court of Auditors on the role of the European Commission in the programmes for Greece. That's the scope. The Chamber asked for a written reply, which I gave, and Mrs Leijten also asked a number of questions. The recommendations in the report focus in particular on the improvements in procedures, coordination and assessment. I have also indicated to the members of the Chamber that I very much support the recommendations in the report on these points. This applies not only to me, but also to the European Commission. It has said that it accepts all the recommendations on these points. As far as I am concerned, that is a positive development. The Court also looked at the impact of reforms on the Greek economy. We are critical of this; by the way, the text of the report is less critical than in the headline. And if I read what has changed with the Chamber, then the explanatory statement is even more nuanced, if I may put it that way. It is important to stress that there have certainly been opportunities for improvement on this point, but that this was absolutely terra incognita for everyone involved. This was extremely complex. It happened under very high pressure and no one could have recognized the pattern to proceed with it. The European Member States and the IMF have provided Greece with financial support, provided that Greece gets the house back in order. In the first instance, conditionality also focused on the acute risks to the stability of the Greek economy. Later it was also about economic growth. I will add a few things in a moment, particularly in the direction of Mr Snels and Mr Sneler. Mr. Chairman. I think it is fair to say that Greece has made an impressive amount of reforms in recent years. Mr Bruins referred to what happened, as did Mr Van Dijck and Mrs Leijten. It is good to recognise and acknowledge that a lot has really happened at that point. The Greek economy has stabilised. Much of the confidence in the financial system has been restored. A number of other economic indicators also look much better, although I am the first to admit that, if you look at the figures, as Mrs Leijten and Mr Snels did, there are still indicators that you can really worry about, because they are still far behind. Think of unemployment, for example. Although it has fallen by more than a quarter, it is still at a high percentage of tears. Let's just be very honest about that. Mr. Chairman. In general, this is a long-term issue. That is also a point to stress in this debate. Much of the impact of the reforms will remain to be seen in the coming period. In this context, Mrs Leijten asked about the lessons learned from the report. I think that's actually the key question. What can and should you want to learn from the situation of the past? That's a lot of them. In part, I have tried to answer that in the written reply. What is ready for me in every cliff is that improving processes and procedures in programme support is a crucial lesson. I will say a little more about the alliance with the seven other countries later. This also explains why the Netherlands' attitude has always been to make sure that if we move from an ESM to a better ESM or to an EMF, we bring these things more into one hand. This simply leads to less coordination problems. That would be a really important step forward. Mr. Chairman. There's also the lesson that you should look integral. Mr Sneller and Mr Snels referred to this. Growth, for example, was only added to the domain of subjects later. Looking back would have been better if you'd done that before. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I really want to name the lesson about what you can expect from a country that ends up in such a position. That's really tearing. Not only has the Greek Government seriously failed the Greek people in getting into this situation, but then, of course, it has also been the Greek Government, most of the members of this house, who have been able to follow this with much more precision than I have, who has made life extremely complicated during these support packages. That is one of the lessons I would like to draw, apart from the report of the European Court of Auditors. It's a huge help if a country joins in. There are also examples of countries that have done programmes that have been much more constructive and cooperative in this, which, I think, has also benefited these countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u71	The minister just said: the situation as it arose with the Greek crisis was terra incognita, we didn't really know what to do, we took advantage of each other and we did nothing. But it was a lot of ideology, wasn't it? We can read this in the book of the Greek Finance Minister Varoufakis, in the sense that there was little possible for the solutions they proposed, and there was little possible for them, all of which came later for, for example, less redemption or temporarily less redemption, which allowed the Greek economy to grow a little. Does the minister really think this was terra incognita at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u72	To explain Mr Varoufakis's perspective on reality to the truth, some Members of this House, let me say it carefully, and at least myself, too, would go a little far. I haven't quite read the book yet, but I think it's either subtly different or very different than he puts it. What's the point of using the term terra incognita? The point is that Europe has never had to deal with such a situation before. A number of Members of this Chamber have quite rightly pointed out what the great fear was at that time. There were great concerns about Greece at the time, but the real concern was that this would affect other eurozone countries, especially southern Europe, and we would have a crisis of a completely different size than the crisis we had with each other. That was the big worry. I think it's really a compliment to all those who have operated in there looking and sometimes operating in the dark, that this hasn't happened. That's why I called that terra incognita. We haven't had this before. It was incredibly complex. A lot had to be done in a short time. Then, of course, it is important to learn lessons. That is why I also said that, as far as I am concerned, this is the key question that Mrs Leijten asked, but I think it would be a bit gratuitous to say that it should have been much better and or quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u73	I think it's important that when you look back, you're also willing to learn lessons. Then you can laugh about the Greek Finance Minister who was there at the time, but we know of course that there was a big argument between Dijsselbloem and Schäuble, the finance ministers of our country and Germany on the one hand and that of Greece and possibly some others who supported it. We know that there was a hard line of "sustainable" while ultimately saving the Dutch and German banks. When you look back on that, you can't just say it was dark and we were just doing what? No, there was clearly an ideological course. That is something that can be said in this debate, isn't it? If you acknowledge that, you can also see for the future what exactly is the ideological course of you and your new friends and whether it is an echo of the past or a wise step towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u74	On some points, Mrs Leijten and I, I think, are close together. I also tried to stress that I find the question of what we can learn from it, always but certainly also in this debate on this subject a very relevant question. At the same time, as far as I am concerned, it is right to recognise that this was an extremely complex international situation with exceptionally high risks for a lot of other countries and with exceptionally high risks for citizens in all kinds of countries and, of course, in the Netherlands. It is therefore not surprising that mistakes are made in such a process. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that we should learn from that. But I myself am careful, let me put it this way, to measure a huge judgment on what was then tried to do with the best intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u75	The Minister was already very critical of the Greek government's participation in the aid programmes. I can understand his criticism of the previous Greek governments which caused Greece to get into trouble. But what does he think of Schäuble's statement, to be read in Varoufakis' book: 'The Greeks should not think that elections mean anything to change policies'?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr. Chairman. I think it's a good idea not to review a book here, not Varoufakis and not others. However, I would like to agree with Mr Snels that there is a fundamental difference between what the Greek Government has done that was responsible for the period up to the crisis and the subsequent government's operations in the crisis. I would like to leave aside the government which has been very brief in between. I sincerely believe that, even during the crisis of the Greek government, which is still today, it could have been more cautious, but it is a fundamental difference from the government which has just cheated on the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u77	Sure. That is why I am particularly talking about the period when these aid programmes were active. I am very curious about the book of the last Eurogroup president, who announced that he will also be writing a book. It is very good to know the other side, but one of the statements and one of the explanations he wants to make is that he says something like: we have crossed democratic boundaries. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u78	Even more difficult than reviewing a book is reviewing a book that is not yet available. But I am also going to read that book with great interest, and perhaps Mr Snels and I, together, should not hold a book review in public. I was in growth and I think I answered Mr Sneller's question on this too. Mr Sneller then asked what the role of the ECB should be in future support programmes. I am not telling the Chamber anything new about this European commitment either. Of course, it is currently being invested with several institutions, ECM, Commission, ECB, all of which sometimes also have overlapping roles. What we have seen, and what the Court of Auditors concludes, is that decision-making support programmes do not benefit precisely because of the high pressure. That is why we are also in favour of developing the ECM, the EMF. We think it would be wise if such an EMF could also negotiate, finance and monitor many more independent support programmes. As far as the relationship with the IMF is concerned, I should like to add that, in my view, Mr Sneller also asked for it, or perhaps it was Mrs Hennis. That's where I think you should check case by case to see if you need the IMF, too. Moreover, I believe that the IMF has played an extremely important and useful role in many of the Greek dossiers. As far as the ECB is concerned, it also depends very much on what it is about and whether specific expertise is needed, for example with regard to the banking sector, or to what extent the ECB should be involved. Mr. Chairman. Then I am with Mrs Hennis and Mr Bruins on conditionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u79	I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u80	At the end, the Minister says: to what extent the ECB should be involved, but my question was which part of the ECB should be covered by that EMF. Because that's what the Prime Minister said last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u81	Then I am going to study that text very carefully, so that I have the exegesis very sharp. For we all know the principle of state law that we speak with one voice where possible. So I'll come back to that. But I am pleased that Mr Sneller has also welcomed the quality of the Prime Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u83	Do you not think that the Christian Union has already mentioned that there should also be an exit scenario for such a country in trouble and that there is still no such country? Because you still cannot say as a country: the problems are so great, I say goodbye to the euro. Somehow you can't. Then you also have to leave the European Union, and so on. Is the Minister prepared to argue for an exit scenario for another country to be in trouble, so that we can say: listen, the problems are so big now, shouldn't you even think about your own currency?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u84	I know Mr Van Dijck as someone with an excellent memory and a long tradition here. He will therefore immediately remember what has been called 'the great euro debate'. By the way, I did not call it that, but Mr Van Rooijen. That was probably four to six weeks ago. At that time we also discussed this issue precisely, in a dialogue with the Christian Union, but in particular with the SGP. At that time I made a number of commitments, including to discuss them. I have also referred to the risks and the dilemmas involved. I don't know if I can add much more to that. My suspicion is that Mr Van Dijck realizes that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mr President, countries such as Greece, Italy and Spain, for example, because they cannot devalue and because they can no longer touch the interest rate button, are actually trapped in the euro and can hardly compete. What kind of future do you actually give these countries within the euro if they stop talking about their own monetary policy and can no longer stimulate the way monetary policy is intended? The future of the euro is actually that you are trapped in the euro. The only thing you can turn on is wages, and that's how your people run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr Van Dijck has read Stiglitz well, but he is very gloomy. These are words and implications that I would not want to make mine when it comes to being caught in the European Union. At the time, the Greek Government itself thought that there would be great benefits to becoming a member of the European Union and then of the euro. It is also the Greek Government that has repeatedly said that it saw advantages in remaining a member of the European Union, so strong that it was prepared to do so with all the pain it has caused to struggle through the various support packages. 'Cause let's just admit it, too. Most countries still have a fairly well-developed sense of self-interest. I think the Greek Government is well aware that, weighing everything up, moving forward on the path that has been taken at the moment is the most sensible thing for the country. I had arrived at Mrs Hennis and Mr Bruins' question on conditionality. A few questions were asked about this, including Annex 7. The European Court of Auditors gives an overview of the conditions postponed in the first and second programmes. In my opinion, Mrs Hennis went into that too. As the Chamber knows, the second programme ended abruptly in 2015 and then began a clean slate at the start of the current ESM programme. I think it is important to stress that there are good reasons for making adjustments to the MoU during programmes. Those customized memoirs are called "supplemental MoU's" or "memoranda' or "understanding', with an apology for English. They will also be submitted to the Chamber. Firstly, during the programme, agreements that have previously been made on the main lines are being implemented, which sometimes leads to changes. Secondly, during the programme, it also sometimes appears that the implementation of implemented policies needs to be strengthened or changed. It may also be the case that adjustments are needed in response to court rulings by, for example, the Court of Justice. I call that for completeness. If I want to be completely complete: I think it is also true that sometimes there is simply a longer implementation period than initially foreseen. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at the second block. This is about the prospects for the postal programme period. That, I think, is extremely relevant. I think we're all looking at that with our eyes crossed. Mrs Hennis and Mr Azarkan asked about the prospects for that period. Mr Azarkan also asked whether Greece could be made financially stable again. I think that is a very fair question. The ESM programme ends in August. The starting point was and is that Greece must be able to stand on its own feet. Mr Bruins then asked whether Greece should be able to finance itself on the market. The answer is yes. It should be possible. It is also important to stress that Greece has also spent debt on the market in recent years. So it's not from zero to a hundred at once. I think that's wise, just to see what the market's reaction is. There is, however, another point. I think it's important to change that as well. Greece will no longer be a programme country in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u87	You will see Mr Azarkan standing at the interrupting microphone, but I would say finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u88	The sentence was finished, but I was just getting started on the part about reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u89	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u90	I have a further question for the Minister through you, Mr President. The IMF has said at some point that we do not think that debt is sustainable anymore. After the second support programme, they were no longer involved. How does the Minister qualify this IMF position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u91	If Mr Azarkan is okay with it, I will say something about it in a moment. There are more members, including Mr Snels, who have asked for debt restructuring. If my answer has not been complete enough, I expect Mr Azarkan to be right back at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u92	The Minister recalls that the Greek government is again attempting to borrow on the market. At the same time, his answer is... There are risk-takers, let me say nicely, who are prepared to put money into something that seems to be a black hole for a big interest. Is the Minister aware of any mechanism to control the interest rate at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u93	I'll come back to the introductory phrase. I wouldn't make that suggestion about the black hole into mine. The market does the work there, and then we can see at the rate of interest what the degree of confidence is. That's how we organized it. We all know it can change. In view of all the conditionality and with all the caution and with all the reservations that I have already made and which I am about to make, it is real to say that Greece has done a bit of a bit of work in many respects. I'm positive about that. Greece has carried out a lot of very difficult reforms. It has also dealt with a lot of difficult issues in the financial field. That has translated into a lot of things, but that has certainly also translated into market confidence. The moment in August is exciting to see if they can stand on their own feet and walk again. Of course, I'm the first to acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u94	What I am specifically afraid of is that the Greek government's attempt to get back on the market goes hand in hand with the promise of an interest rate that we all feel a little bit that you can't live up to. I am afraid that this promise is so high that people are going to invest in it, while we are still trying to help Greece. Can we have any influence on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u95	You can see me looking at the ceiling. I see the problem. My observation is that the problem is also seen in the eurogroup and elsewhere in the institutions. I think that is exactly the explanation why we are trying to exercise so much care throughout the process. The reason I looked at the ceiling is that I was asked whether I see things I can do about it. Then "bin ich überfragt," as it is so beautifully called in German. That was a lot to ask. Mr. Chairman. I had reached the part where Mr Bruins led me. That was about what's going to happen in August. We have already exchanged what is happening with regard to interest rates and markets, but I think you can say that there is actually a much more fundamental question. That is the question of what the Greek authorities are going to do with the reforms that have been undertaken, including with regard to the policies and reforms that are supposed to come and which are also good and sensible for Greek citizens, because that is what this is all about in the end. I think it is obvious that many in Europe would find it very sensible if Greece continued along the road that has been taken. It is not the case that Greece is left to its own devices, quite the contrary. After the completion, we continue, as always, the monitoring of the programme. Greece will also participate in the regular monitoring cycle that applies to all of us, as euro countries and to some extent as EU countries. This means that they fall within the logic and agreement of the SGP and within the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. It is important to say that until 75% of the funds borrowed have been repaid, former programme countries are subject to what is so beautifully called post-programme surveillance. But I am the first to recognise that this will be an intensive and perhaps difficult and special period for Greece and therefore for the euro group as a whole. I'm coming to the debt relief. Mr Snels and Mr Azarkan asked, and I believe that Mr Snelter and others asked. It is also important here to go back in time and to avoid the suggestion that this subject is now on the table, because it has already been on the table in the past. In the past, under my predecessor but also under the predecessor of my predecessor, the Eurogroup has already spoken and made agreements on debt relief. In May 2016 and 2017, to be more specific, the Eurogroup agreed on a package. Those agreements have been reconfirmed by the last eurogroup, which was held on 22 January. It states that at the end of the programme it will be assessed whether additional debt measures are needed. The program ends in the summer of '18. Now is not the time to discuss it, but that is also the time to discuss it. And again, you can use the umbrella word "restruct," but it is about relief and not about forgiveness. I understand Mr Snels is enthusiasmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u96	That is precisely the problem, in my view, because we have had an extension of these debts before. Just look at the table with the debts to be paid and the payments to be made until about 2060. Then you can see that the debt has been postponed for a long time. Can we do that any further? Are we going to the 21st century? Are we going to the twenty-second century? When are we gonna postpone that debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mr Snels is, of course, a great seducer, but I have just said that I want to go through this process in the right way. That is what I am going to do with my colleagues in the eurogroup, in the order we agreed on there, have reaffirmed and reaffirmed. That period is about to begin, so I think that is excellent news for Mr Snels. If he can practice a little more patience, we can talk about it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u98	Sure, but I'm asking for the Minister's opinion. When I see that the repayment obligation for the Greek government runs until 2060, I just wonder what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u99	Look, what we all agree on is... Anyone who looks at these graphs immediately sees one country that stands out in terms of debt: Greece. It's an incredibly high debt. That is precisely why we are going to discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u100	This is always such a semantic discussion: is it debt relief, restructuring or remission? But if I lend this minister €100 and tell him to pay me back €100 in 100 years, have I forgiven, have I lightened or have I restructured? What did I do? I think that 100 euros in 100 years is still worth five euros. In my opinion, I then forgave €95. Is that also a bit of this Minister's vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u101	It is a pity that all those economists have left the gallery, because I think Mr Van Dijck gives a very good description of the concept of NPV, or net present value, in Dutch. The discussion is about this: let us do what is reasonable and what we have agreed. I think that a fundamental distinction must be made between relief and remission, which is something else, but Mr Van Dijck is of course right that the basic amount remains the same for all the steps of debt relief that have been taken in the past. But if you express that in net present value, that is of course another amount if you take a ten-year term or twenty-year term. I won't beat around the bush.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u102	I welcome this Minister's insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u103	A surprising insight, apparently!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u104	But the question is, of course, what that value is. That's what the people in this country are interested in. We have now borrowed the Greeks about 20 billion, as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u105	14, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u106	What is the net present value at the moment, if the Greeks are indeed using the payment schedule and the interest rate schedule as agreed? Does that mean we'll get 20 billion in cash back, or does that mean we'll get another 5 billion back and actually write off 50 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u107	I would like to make the sum and I would also like to make it with Mr Van Dijck. I don't think the starting point is 20 billion, but a little lower. But let's get rid of that for a while. However, I would like to say once again that these are two fundamentally different situations. On the one hand, it is about lighting, where you talk about the percentage or the duration, for example. I repeat, that is exactly what happened with the approval of this Chamber in the past. On the other hand, it's about debt write-off, which is just about the principal. That is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u108	In addition to that question, my simple question is: what does the Minister mean by "debt relief"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u109	Exactly what I just said. I repeat: this has happened repeatedly in the past, even during the period when Mr Azarkan was a member of the Chamber. I believe it was Mrs Hennis, but it could also have been Mrs Leijten, who referred to exactly those examples such as the lengthening of the repayment period, an adjustment to interest rates and that type of adjustment. This reduces the burden of debt but maintains the principal amount. That is a different choice and also a fundamentally different choice than adjusting the principal amount. It also feels like something else for the creditor and the debtor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u110	I hear the Minister say: longer term and lower interest rates. This means, on balance, that we will get a little less for that money and thus sponsor Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u111	I do not think I need to review Mr Azarkan's economic insights, because he has a clear picture of them. I have tried to explain (a) what has happened in the past and what is the consequence of that, (b) what is the difference between debt relief and debt write-off and (c) what is the process that I will go through with my fellow finance ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u112	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr President, those were the comments on the debt measures. Mrs Leijten and Mr Snels asked about democratic legitimacy and about decision-making. I have already said something about this, but for the sake of completeness I may have to say the following. Look, the eurogroup is, of course, the gremium where the finance ministers meet. In the meantime, it has become clear to me that I must fight the democratic legitimacy of, if not every word, or every sentence I say there on the Thursday before it here in the Chamber. There are a number of colleagues who are in the same situation. Then I will be accountable again in Parliament, and so it should be in a democracy. I therefore honestly believe that this is well guaranteed, and I would point out that where we can make the process more transparent and where I can also work for even more transparency, we must do so. We have often exchanged this with each other, and I very much agree with the Chamber on this. We're going to talk about that tomorrow, and then I might have a little bit of good news. We need to make this more transparent if it is possible, because it will only improve democratic legitimacy and control. As much as I understand what the Chamber is asking me to do, and as much as I think it is legitimate, I might add that I think that we have given in quite a good deal of democratic control compared to most of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u114	Of course, you know very well what your MPs do abroad. Then you will have noticed that we have an initiative for greater transparency in Europe, to get documents, to exercise proper control. It will also be known that one of the demands we make is that the Eurogroup should at least be democratically legitimised. For perhaps this Minister can inform us. I think he is doing better than the previous Minister of Finance.... but in the end we have no say now and we cannot see exactly what is being said there either. There are always many points on the agenda of the Ecofin and the Eurogroup. And then it is 'exchange of views' and we do not need to see those documents, whereas, of course, the venom of the discussion may be in such an exchange of views. So I wonder what the Minister will say tomorrow about which we are satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u115	Little bit of good news; that's all I promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u116	To say that the Eurogroup is democratically legitimized and that it is completely transparent what is happening there would be a little too much of the good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u117	I recognise and look forward immediately to the nuance in Mrs Leijten's words. She was there on a day when I was in Brussels, coincidentally or not, to share with others the piece she came to offer together Mr Omtzigt and, I believe, Mr Van Rooijen. Unfortunately, we were not able to meet there. There too, however, I have strongly supported the line of your Chamber both in the eurogroup and in the press. I'll keep doing that. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Dijck asked about the Lagarde list. As you know, this is a list of Greek account holders at a bank in Switzerland. As far as I know, individual cases of this list are being investigated and fines have been issued in some cases. These investigations in Greece are still ongoing in many cases. Mr Sneller asked which preventive role could provide technical assistance. As you know, the Structural Reform Support Service I know I have to apologize in this house for English, but if you don't mind, I'm not translating the European Commission's technical assistance and support to Member States. Technical assistance in implementing reforms is also, not for nothing, an important part of the current ESM programme for Greece. And quite frankly, that is also very necessary. This Structural Reform Support Service is active in Greece to support the Greek authorities. It was founded in 2015. Previously, the Task Force for Greece also provided technical assistance. Progress in implementing reforms depends not only on administrative capacity, but also on ownership and commitment by, of course, Greek authorities in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u118	Perhaps we will have to talk more about it in another debate, but is the Minister's observation that it is sufficient and that it is also sufficiently used? Or are there still untapped opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u119	That is, of course, a very good question. It's a question of conscience. It's also a question I'm wondering if I'm quite capable of judging it. In general, I would hope that countries will always seize this type of support with both hands, for the simple reason that it helps, that it is also meant as aid and that it is not threatening. I would also like, since I am interested, to give a commitment to Mr Sneller to look into this and perhaps to return to it in one of the AOs. It is a difficult quest to then determine what is effective, because do you ask this Gremium, do you ask the Greeks? Is it therefore the opinion of one or the other on this matter that Mr Sneller and I would have had? So it's still pretty complicated. But in general, I think it would be useful to look into that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u120	I'd like to hear more about it. I also believe that a new multiannual budget will make it an extra relevant issue in the context of conditionality, at least offering it, but perhaps also allowing it to go a little further if it is included in those conditions. I also read in the European Court of Auditors' report a number of times that this technical assistance was necessary in order to actually implement the recommendations or conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u121	Yes, and no matter how I interpret Mr Sneller's remark: should you want more of it? Should you be even more enthusiastic about using it in a future Member State? We look back, but we also, as far as I'm concerned, intending to make it better for the future. So in the end we try to be forward-looking here as well. As far as I am concerned, that should be the objective and the challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u122	Mr Omtzigt, before I give you the floor, I would also like to know how far the Minister is about answering the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u123	I was a long way. I did have a few more questions from Mr Omtzigt, and I am not saying that to drive him away right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u124	I'll come back to the one-after-last point. That's the Lagarde list. It had 2,000 names on it. Five years later, 86 of them had a tax charge. As far as I know, one person has been convicted and that is the one who should have done it, so call it the head of Greece's anti-fraud agency. So that means that no one of those 2,000 people, as far as I know, has been convicted at all. There have been a few suicides, though. It was always a condition and the European Union would follow that Lagarde list. Is the Minister prepared to talk to Greece about the progress of this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u125	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u126	Thank you. Then we will hear back what the answer is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u127	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u128	Please continue. I would nevertheless like to propose that the Minister be given the opportunity to proceed with the reply. Or did you leave a question, Mr. Snels?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u129	I can hardly imagine that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u130	Me neither. Or are you gonna make him up now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u131	No. The Minister has not answered my question about the right of veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u132	I had some really nice things to go anyway. I believe that Mr Snels' question was also more widely dressed, because the dress was about the Nordic Baltic paper. I wanted to say something about that in the first place, although it may be more a subject for tomorrow than for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u133	That is why you will have the opportunity to answer the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr. Chairman. I was referring to a question by Mr Omtzigt about OLAF and Novartis and the possible role of me in this. OLAF acts against cases which harm the financial interests of the European Union. That is why the agency was set up, and we should use it for that. The EU's financial importance consists of expenditure, revenue and the European Union's assets. It doesn't seem like that's what this is about. This seems to be the Member State's own money. I myself am very pleased that Greece has launched an investigation. I fully support that. When I say 'Greece', I am talking about the Greek justice system and the Greek parliament. Mr. Chairman. It was still about the independence of the European Central Bank and its control by the Court of Auditors. Mr Omtzig asked for it, but so did Mr Bruins. As regards the ECB's monetary tasks, the ECA can only carry out an efficiency check on the activities of the ECB. This follows simply from the independence of the ECB, which is enshrined in the Treaty. We often exchange views on this subject, in order to put it this way. With regard to supervisory tasks, the ARK has broader powers at DNB than the ECA with the ECB. I have already said that I would very much like to repeat this because I support the implication of Mr Omtzigt's question, which I am very willing to commit myself to extending these powers. We have had an oral exchange of views on this subject and perhaps also on it in writing. Mr. Chairman. A brief word on Nordic Baltic. That really is a subject that is quite different from this. We must clearly articulate on a number of issues how we want to move forward and under what conditions we want to move forward. Although I realize that with such a paper you are far from there and it is a competition that you have to play several times, I am content with it, if I may put it that way, that we as the Netherlands can go there with some like-minded countries. It is already wildly complicated to find two countries in the European Union that agree on many things. In this case, we have agreed on a number of rather difficult issues with a larger group. The interesting thing is that the link to this debate is that some of the issues that have also been raised at the Court of Auditors are being tackled in the paper. In the paper, for example, we are talking about moderate coordination. We would like to move from ESM to EMF and bring coordination more into one hand. That's a huge win. There is much more to be said about the paper, about intergovernmentalism and about the banking union and so on, but perhaps I should save that for tomorrow when we discuss the euro group more broadly. But, Mr President, as always, I am in your hands as a wash.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u135	I see Mr. Snels on the interrupting microphone, but I would like to suggest that the Minister also answers the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u136	I won't say I kept it best for last, but I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u137	Oh! Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u138	I have nothing against coordination. I think that's all very well. However, I would like to return to the link with democratic legitimacy. In my opinion, in the Greek crisis, we have gone down the edge a number of times and could have created a situation in which the grexit had really taken place. What does it say about European democratic legitimacy when all euro area countries feel that a further instalment of an emergency programme should be paid out in the event of a progress report, but Estonia, to name you a coalition partner, which is a big deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u139	In all friendship and courtesy towards Mr Snels: he is also very short here by saying that he has nothing against coordination. Because the report, which I believe he has also endorsed, points precisely to the great, great, great importance of greater coordination in order to avoid misery as we have had in the past. So I would like to say: that is not a thing. That's a fundamental thing we need to fix with each other. Many countries see this, but these eight countries have also formulated very explicit solutions for this. I think that's important. "Nothing against" sounds a bit like love work old paper. As far as I'm concerned, it's different. Mr. Chairman. Let me say a few more things about the specific case law and democratic legitimacy. At present, the ESM is organised in such a way that Member States have the last word. In my view, the fact that Member States have the last word, coupled with what I have already said about how to fight democratically in your home the sentences and words I speak show that there is excellent democratic control. Moreover, this is the case in all cases, except in the event of an emergency. We've switched that with each other before. Then a majority of 85% is sufficient. Mr Snels knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u140	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u141	I understand the national I.D. That's what I'm here for. I can imagine that in a "go/no go" decision, in which Dutch taxpayers' money is at stake, you give Member States a right of veto. Maybe you could look at something else, too. But it is different when a programme is implemented, when there are progress reports and when tranches are to be paid out again. There have been a lot of reconstructions that show that we have been on the edge from time to time. Suppose, at some point in the implementation of a programme, Estonia says: and now we stop. That is not, after all, legitimate on the basis of European democratic glasses, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u142	In my view, Mr Snels is saying something different, and in part fundamentally different, from what he said earlier in this debate. Then I think he said: if the principal is democratically legitimized, then you can skip it with any subsequent instalments. That is really three steps too far for me; let me say that. I think that should be absolutely democratically legitimized. I have to find out in this house whether I have the parliamentary support to do so. Well, that's not the way I see it. At the same time, there is, of course, a great deal that the ESM solves for us today without sending in great detail from the various Member States. That's how it's supposed to be, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u143	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr President, perhaps just one sentence. As far as I am concerned, the characterization that we want to keep all the cards in our own hands at a large level of detail does wrong to the paper we wrote together. There are real thoughts in that too to move forward in a sensible way. But it is precisely because of democratic legitimacy that it is very important for the Member States to deal with this type of crucial step, and not the Commission, the European Parliament or any other body.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u145	I am in favour of vetos and the primacy of the Member State, but this debate between GroenLinks and the Minister on whether or not to veto, in which I support the Minister, actually shows that it is a political debate and not a technical debate. Of course, the rescue operation of Greece, which was actually the rescue operation of the euro and the banks, has taken an ideological course. That ideological course, dangers by Schäuble and Dijsselbloem, as described in the book of Varoufakis, is also under discussion. For if, for example, it deviates from what is good for a country, what will we learn from the Greek crisis? That's what we were going to do in this debate. We were going to learn from what we've done wrong in the past. Well, the minister said it was a terra incognita. No, it was an ideological choice made to save Greece, the banks and the euro. What ideological choice would the Minister make if he now made a future plan for the euro with other Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u146	We're throwing a lot of things together here, too. And then there's a like-dan question parachuted in it. That makes giving a sensible answer very complicated. What I said, and what I lovelylyly repeat, is this. With the various eurogroup countries and with the help of, among others, the IMF and the ECB, we have tried to solve a very complex and complex situation. In addition, a lot of things went well. We have ensured that the rest of the euro group is not infected. That's incredibly important. Let me stress that. It is inconceivablely important that we have managed to achieve this, otherwise we would have had a completely different debate here. But we can also draw lessons from it, as this report points out. I have admitted that to Mrs Leijten. I subscribe to a lot of these classes. I also exchanged them with your Chamber in writing. The key question is, as I said earlier, how do you draw those lessons and how can you implement them next time? I will not repeat it all, but I have mentioned that it is about growth, among other things, I say that to Mr Snels and Mr Sneler on integrity and on what Member States themselves should do, both in advance and during. It's a bigger palette, which I won't color all over again now, but that's the lesson as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u147	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u148	It has really been said to Greece at a very detailed level what had to be done: selling airports, cutting pensions and fewer civil servants in service. These are all neoliberal solutions. There was no other way out of the crisis than the neoliberal solution. In doing so, we have seen that in this whole Greek tragedy there was only one taste, namely the ideological taste of less government, and that, in the end, that government had to save the banks, at least we as taxpayers. I wouldn't mind if the Minister learns from that. Every time he laughs a little bit about Varoufakis, but that clash was there: is it about what a country wants to do and can do democratically legitimate, or is it imposed by the European Finance Ministers, in this case the hardliners from Germany and the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u149	I also say this in all courtesy and in all sharpness the following. The whole process is democratically legitimised in the Member States. We all know the struggle that many groups have been through on this subject. Well, more democratically legitimized than that, you can't get it. Same for the Greek government. The Greek Government itself has always been at the forefront of saying that we want to go through with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u150	Thank you. Mr. Faster, you're still walking to the interrupting microphone, but you also have a second term. That second term will begin now, unless a question has not been answered. Is that the case, Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u151	That is at least three questions. One. Will we get an overview of what the Dutch Tax Administration has achieved with its support to the Greek tax authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u152	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u153	Fine. Two. When do we get about zero measurement of all risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u154	I'll come back to that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u155	I'm so glad it's short!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u156	Yeah, this whole list was so easy. We have also exchanged it before, Mr Omtzigt and I. The zero readings are more frequent. Let me give it an even more generous answer tomorrow than: it will come tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u157	Good. And the perfect storm scenario will come tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u158	Yes, but Mr Omtzigt and I have to make sure that tomorrow we do not disappoint each other in what we are going to change, because we have also exchanged a bit about that. We know the similarities between the different positions, but also the differences. But I will of course be extensively available tomorrow to look for even more common ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u159	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u160	Mr. Chairman. I had raised something in the first term about which I did not hear the Minister. This was about the two whistleblowers who told the truth about the Greek deficit: Mr Papakonstantinou, the then Finance Minister, and Mr Georgiou. Both have been convicted of telling the truth. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he feels about that. My next question is as a result of my interruption. The Dutch taxpayer has the right to know how much has now been donated, a gift to Greece. I was talking about 20 billion and the minister says it's less. How much is the exposure of the Netherlands to Greece in the form of loans and guarantees? What is the present value on the basis of the now agreed repayment schedules and interest rates? I want to know if the previous finance minister's promise is true: we get everything back with interest. Then I have two more motions, Mr. Chairman, because I have to hurry. I shall begin with the motion to ensure that we get Greece's money back as soon as possible, because Greece can go back to the capital market. Let it do that and pay us back! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the three support programmes have not helped Greece;]] [[whereas the euro exacerbates the gap between countries;]] [[calls on the government not to transfer another cent to Greece;]] [[calls on the government to recover all the billions borrowed with interest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1489]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u161	My next motion concerns the bankruptcy of the euro. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a currency for 17 different countries is not working and never going to work;]] [[Whereas muddling will be accompanied by high costs, stagnant economic growth and high unemployment;]] [[calls on the government to prepare to leave the euro area so that the Netherlands can resume its own monetary policy and no longer guarantee the debts and deficits of other Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1490]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u162	"The banks and hedge funds have taken the noose off their necks and put it around the taxpayer's." That is what my group chairman said in 2011 when it came to the debate on Greek support. You don't give a new credit card to someone who's over-indebted. He predicted that the money would go back to the German and French banks via a lap over the Acropolis. It's all been true. We are not saving Greece, we are saving the euro, the banks and the financial sector. The consequences are disastrous. If you look back, you can of course say that we have wise lessons to learn from it. There were also people who saw at the time that the problems were elsewhere than just the government and the taxpayer, for example in the financial markets. Then a very neoliberal agenda has been rolled out to make Greece fit, and now the story of this finance minister with his new comrades in Europe is: house in order, otherwise we will not be able to go through with the euro. That might show what the dead end will eventually be like. Of course, we must ensure that budgets are in order and that public debt is reduced, but we must also really do something about the power of the financial markets, otherwise the euro will remain a fiasco, rescue operations will be expensive for taxpayers and people, and the financial world will be the laughing third.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u163	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Snels, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I feel some disappointment in the response to the questions I had about democratic legitimacy. Apparently, the Minister only sees national democratic legitimacy and no European interest and a European democratic legitimacy. However, when it comes to the euro and the rescue of countries, this must also be the subject of discussion. I have another question about the sovereign debt. I think we can look at it in two ways. You can look at it as a percentage of GDP and then it is around 100% until 2060, assuming a growth of 1.5% in real terms or 3.5% in nominal terms. This means that even if economic growth is going well, the public debt remains very high. More interesting, therefore, I asked for a review of the schedule of refunds. This was also stated in the report of the European Court of Auditors. Then you actually see a fairly flat refund schedule until 2060. There's still a peak in 2020, I think. I think the Greeks are gonna get in trouble again after that. You can restructure that. But the only thing you can do after that if you don't want to cancel debts is to extend the maturity so that eventually it's forgiveness, because then we'll be in the twenty-second century. What is the difference between extending the maturity until the end of the month or cancellation of the debt? Or is this purely ideological?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u165	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan. No, you're right. I give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u166	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and commitment on technical assistance and also on the importance of growth. I look forward to his answer to the question about the Prime Minister's speech, which we both listened to with interest, but with slightly different ears. I had another question about the powers of the European Court of Auditors when it comes to the EMF. How does he see it? The question I wanted to put to the interrupting microphone was in line with what Mrs Leijten asked. In replying to the parliamentary questions, the Minister said: "For budgetary policy, the institutions defined the frameworks, but the Greek authorities also had freedom of choice to determine, in accordance with their political priorities, what measures they wanted to meet these budgetary objectives." My question to the Minister is whether he can reflect on the balance between ownership on the one hand and the setting of these conditions from the ESM in this case and, of course, in the future, the EMF on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u167	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. The last word on the Greek debt crisis has not yet been mentioned. I'm also afraid the last nickel hasn't been spent yet. I have a detailed question for the Minister. It's about the following. In 2012, the amount of 130 million was circulated for the second tranche. In the pieces I now read 172.6. I would very much like to hear exactly what amount it is; for the sake of clarity. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that in the year 2000 Professor De Haan of the CDA Group warned against Greece joining the euro area;]] [[having noted that he had a forward-looking view and pointed to a lack of economic convergence and budgetary manipulation and also to the danger of the stability of the euro;]] [[Considers that Professor De Haan from the opposition made an exceptional good prediction of developments that occurred ten years later;]] [[having noted, however, that the Purple II cabinet did not take any notice of this and simply passed on to the euro project;]] [[Considering that the Rutte III cabinet wanted to open the door to the opposition, but given the fact that the Chamber was chasing down the ransom and the referendum law did not comply with this promise;]] [[calls on the government to open the door to the opposition and to include opposition proposals more seriously in the decision-making process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1491]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u170	Thank you. Finally, Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u171	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. Thank you for reconnecting what is happening with the Lagarde list and what has been achieved by the Dutch Tax Administration in Greece. That is important, because, as my PVV colleague said, the head of the statistics office was given that warning for life. Whoever leaked the Lagarde list was arrested immediately within three days. But the tax evaders are not being dealt with. It's important that that happens. Mr President, I have two motions for resolutions. The first motion concerns the need for proper supervision of the European Central Bank by the European Court of Auditors. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the General Court has much broader powers and had vis-à-vis DNB than the European Court of Auditors vis-à-vis the ECB;]] [[considers that the ECB is independent in the implementation of its monetary policy, but that independence does not mean that there is no control;]] [[Calls on the Dutch Government, if possible together with similar countries, to write a letter to the ECB requesting that its internal rules be adapted so that the European Court of Auditors can effectively control, inter alia, banking supervision and the execution of the buy-back programmes, which amount to 2,500 billion;]] [[invites the Government to forward the letter and a copy of the reply to the Chamber within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins, Mr Hennis-Plasschaert, Mr Snels, Mr Leijten and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1492]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u172	And a short motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the estimated damage of the Novartis fraud scandal to the Greek taxpayer is 4 billion;]] [[noting that Greece has been fully dependent on European funds since the first European emergency programme in 2010;]] [[noting that European funds were thus spent in this scandal;]] [[calls on the Government to urge OLAF to support the Greek Public Prosecutor and the Investigation Commission in their investigation into the Novartis case and to inform the Court of Auditors of the way in which this call is followed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1493]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u173	One last sentence about that. The EFSM is European money, from the European budget. They've had that for one month, so there's a hook.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u175	Can't anyone ask a question more than that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u176	No, thank you. You did your best today, but I can't. The final motion is now being copied. We'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u177	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u178	Thank you, Mr President. In the second term there were still a large number of questions and a number of motions. I have tried to write along as well as possible and I will try to respond as fully as possible and then proceed to the opinions on the motions. Mr Van Dijck of the PVV rightly expressed concerns about the whistleblowers. The lawsuit against former director Georgiou of ELSTAT is worrying. This means that it also puts pressure on the institutions. This is closely monitored by both the Eurogroup and the Brussels institutions. We are, of course, concerned with measures in the independence programmes in the Greek Statistical Office and the staff. I very much share the concern of the PVV and we continue to keep our finger on the pulse. That's all I can make of it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u179	Very briefly, Mr Van Dijck. We are not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u180	No, but it's a question from me from the first term that's being answered now. My point is that this man was convicted last year for two years and that there is another case against him as a traitor. In other words, that is Greece in 2017, where a whistleblower from the Statistical Office, who is telling the truth, gets two years probation and doesn't even dare to go back to Greece but is hiding somewhere in Washington.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u181	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u182	What does that say about the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u183	No, Mr Van Dijck. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u184	When I use the word "worried," that's what I mean. Of course, this is just not good. This can't be happening. I just do not see many possibilities other than letting this part of all those talks be bilaterally with my Greek colleague and wider with the institutions. It is, and remains, extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u185	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck also asked about the loans. There's a little misunderstanding there, I think. The amount that has appeared in the last Millions note is, in my view, a little less than 14 billion. So I couldn't bring Mr Van Dijck's 20 billion all the way home. If he wants to clarify how he gets 20 billion, I'd be happy to be redirected. I mean that seriously, because I don't recognize the amount. It's a different amount from what was in my predecessor's Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u187	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u188	I am concerned about how much the total exposure of the Netherlands to Greece is, including the bilateral loan of 3.2 billion u.a. that may not be included in the debt instrument and including the IMF exposure of the Netherlands to Greece through the IMF. So the total exposure and then the present value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u189	I'll get to the present value, but the amount in the Millions Note is, I thought, 13.7 billion or 13.8 billion. 14 billion is always the amount I have in mind. The IMF calculations are not country-by-country, and it is difficult for me to add them. Mr Van Dijck clearly interpreted it as 6 billion. I base myself on these European funds. When it comes to the present value of MPV, it becomes very complicated to do so, because there are all kinds of assumptions behind this. I can find out about the delta or the difference with the 14 billion, but with the IMF I cannot help Mr Van Dijck on his way or on the net present value. I'll be back on the motions later. Mr Sneller was disappointed here and there, and I believe that this is particularly true of democracy. His bar is very high. I will continue to look for opportunities for improvement. He was also somewhat negative when he talked about the twenty-second century at the time of his term. To be precise: 15 years extra is still a very long time away, but we are far from being in the twenty-second century and I say this with a serious undertone. There too it is important to tell the story nuancedly. Mr. Chairman. Then the gentleman would have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u190	I think it was a question from Mr Sneller. Oh, quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u191	The Minister wasn't in the clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u192	Excuse me. That's only happened to me once so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u193	But I assume that the Minister has also looked at that payoff table and that it can only be the conclusion that, if we start thinking again about debt relief, that can only be an extension of maturity in the entire, very, very distant future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u194	Mr President, everything I had to say about debt relief has already been exchanged with the Chamber. I have arrived at Mr Sneller's office; I hope I am saying it correctly now. He had three more questions. His first question was about the EMF and the possible role of the ECA. Although it obviously seems a logical idea, the ECA really is a Community institution and we want to keep the EMF intergovernmental. There is therefore no room for the ECA. What Mr Sneller is looking for and with which I very much agree: how do we ensure that you also apply control over it? It is a good thing to name it. I think that my predecessor has also exchanged it with the Chamber on occasion, and that there is an independent auditor and an independent audit service. There has also been an independent researcher, a lady with a very complicated name that I cannot reproduce acutely here. And the room gets all the pieces. That will also have to remain the ingredients of the recipe in the future. It is therefore not logical to give the ECA a role in this. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Sneller also asked me about the Prime Minister's speech. Let's see where I hid it. I had him with me last time, but I managed to get rid of him. In particular, Mr Sneller asked about the role of the ECB, when the ESM is transformed into an EMF and what tasks it receives. The Prime Minister indicated the following in his speech. First of all, let me quote it literally and then say: 'My proposal, number 3, is to transform the European Stability Mechanism into an intergovernmental European Monetary Fund, the EMF, bringing the current role of the Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism under one roof in support programmes'. By this we mean that the tasks that the ECB currently has within the programmes are assigned to the ESM. It concerns, for example, the monitoring of conditionality, the financial sector and the contribution to the debt sustainability analysis. These are all elements that are very logical under that roof. The ECB also participates in missions and negotiates terms and conditions. That is why you would like to invest in the EMF. In the first term, I have also said that it is and will continue to be the case that you will naturally have to seek the assistance of the ECB when specific expertise is required or when it is also related to the banking sector. So it's also really the intention to keep looking at this case-by-case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u195	Have you answered all of Mr Sneller's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u196	He wanted an even more extensive reflection on another theme, but I do not think he stands for that with the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u197	Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u198	That is indeed about the European Monetary Fund. I am looking at the President because I am not sure that this is the time to discuss this further. The control of that European Monetary Fund should be stronger than we have seen for the part that lies with the ECB. I believe that the IMF has carried out a number of evaluations which are more appropriate to the expectations we have of it. Perhaps we should take that up again in the debate on the European Monetary Fons, but we certainly should not leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u199	I very much agree with Mr Sneller, by the way. However, we are continuing to drift from today's debate to tomorrow's debate, so to speak. Quite frankly, even to the debates that will follow, because that is not something we organised tomorrow. But what I very much share with the Chamber and with Mr Sneller in particular is that of course you have to make sure that you do such a new EMF in one go. I would like to emphasise that when I look at all these European institutions and creations, the ESM has done a lot of very good things. But if you take another step in the right direction, I think it should be part of that. In this case, however, we will not have to seek refuge in the European Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u200	This is a second term. That means that the questions and the motions will be dealt with very briefly. We've been debating this for hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u201	Mr President, I am trying to draw between your rigour and the careful response. Perhaps then I will be able to keep the broader reflection on Mr Sneller's next point until tomorrow or later, because that too is related to the future, I think. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a question from Mr Azarkan. He mentioned two amounts he couldn't reconcile, and my creativity let me down in thinking what two amounts he meant. So perhaps he would like to repeat either underhand or briefly here, or else in a letter indicate what those two amounts are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u202	When it comes to amounts, it can be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u203	I am afraid I cannot do it orally anyway, but if Mr Azarkan mentions it now, I can at least have this question answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mr. Azarkan for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u205	In the documents for 2012, the second tranche, the amount of 172.6 billion, circulates. In 2012, it was 130 billion. I do not know what amount was paid as aid at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u206	More and more of these miserable amounts are coming into my head. I'm gonna have to try on these amounts anyway. I will provide Mr Azarkan with a written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u207	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u208	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm in motion. The first motion, the Van Dijck motion in part No. 1489, I must advise against, because the government does not intend to recover the billions borrowed. Mr Van Dijck will not be entirely surprised. The motion in part No. 1490 looks like previous motions that I've sometimes advised against. It is perhaps good to say that Mr Van Dijck, whether he is freudian or not, has already reduced the euro group from nineteen to seventeen in the motion. In this way, the euro group is still a little short-sighted. For that reason alone, I should advise against the motion, but I think that Mr Van Dijck also understands that I should discourage her in a broader sense. Mr Azarkan then took up item No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I will leave the reflections on his behalf, but the Prime Minister and I have exchanged here earlier that the door of the Trêveszaal is wide open. I think that's a literal quote. Then there are quotes about "the warm hand," which I'm not going to repeat. But in the operative part that we should take it more seriously, the government cannot recognize itself. So I'm going to have to dissuade that motion. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 1492. In doing so, Mr Omtzigt has put me once again in a dilemma; not for the first time, and certainly not for the last time. Let me be very specific. Then maybe there's a way to find each other. Where the motion is about 'and the implementation of the buy-back programmes', it is about monetary policy. So that's gonna be very complicated. We don't think that's possible. On the first part of the motion, my predecessor paid attention earlier, I think at the request of the Chamber. That did not lead to the outcome that the Chamber would hope for. I will speak to the Director of the Court of Auditors shortly. My proposal would be to amend the motion on the first point, the implementation of the buy-back programmes, and to hold it on to the rest. Then I can still get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u209	First an explanation: 'the implementation of the buy-back programmes' is not about the buy-back programme itself. It is a question of ensuring that the right things are bought up. That is why it also states that monetary policy is independent. I like that, but it's about the supervision of those two. Aren't we buying the wrong bonds? Is there no prior knowledge in the market? There are also many signals for the latter. With such a large programme, it is simply important to be able to monitor that aspect, and only that aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u210	We are now at the end of the debate with a fairly fundamental interpretation of matters where it is really very important that we separate monetary policy from the rest. Could I suggest to Mr Omtzigt that he also continue the motion in order to study it further and puzzle what the interpretation should be? I do so precisely because I am asking him and the Chamber to hold the motion because I am still talking to the Court of Auditors, I believe in March or April. Otherwise, it's gonna get really complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u211	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u212	I would like to keep the motion for a week and see what we can do, but this is not about talking to the Court of Auditors, because the Court of Auditors is very keen to do so. This is, of course, a conversation with the European Central Bank, and not just a conversation but a letter. The moment the motion is put to the vote, it is not a question of having a conversation, but of sending a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u213	Sure. Certainly, but for the sake of clarity, my predecessor has already sent a letter on the first part of the request. That letter has led to little, so the question I would like to put to Mr Omtzigt is what his assessment is of the effectiveness of a subsequent letter from me. Here's what we're gonna do? We'll take a week to puzzle and see where we really think it's about monetary policy, so I'd ask something from the bank that I shouldn't want to ask. Where, like Mr Omtzigt, we seem to think that we can, we will. And then we'll see if it's wise to send a letter. Shall we do it like this? Then maybe my advice will still be "hold on" or "dissuade," but I can't go out with it in any other way now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u214	No, Mrs Leijten, although you are under this motion, six other colleagues are also under it. That means that only the petitioner is allowed to intervene. Really. No, no. The author. You have dissuaded the motion, Minister, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u215	No, I don't mind... Mr Omtzig asked whether we could not bring the period back to a week. Anyway, I think it would be wise to take that week. But I would like to add that I have doubts about the effectiveness of a second letter. With regard to monetary policy, I would like to take a very specific look at whether I am not in an area where Mr Omtzigt may wish to have me on, but which I should not want to be on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u216	I'm holding the motion as we speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u217	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (21501-07, No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u218	However, I would like to point out that when the motion is put to the vote... If it says "a letter" in the motion, we really expect a letter. That must remain clear. That's what he can just stick the motion to, then he knows who it's from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u219	Yes. The Minister continues. Mrs Leijten, I am not going to deviate from my position. Only the author may ask a question about the motion. I'm really not going to give you the floor; I'm really sorry. No. I hear you protesting now, but only the petitioner can ask a question about the motion. If I allow you to do so, anyone else under the motion may also ask a question. It's really a rule I'd like to maintain, otherwise things are getting completely out of hand. No, I know you very well. You can't ask a question about the motion, really. You may ask another question, but if it still concerns the motion, I will really cut you off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u220	Then I'll do another interruption. We have seen that the European Court of Auditors has now been able to look mainly at the European Commission and the evaluation of Greece's support programmes. But there's a three-way troika. Would it not be good, in principle, to look at the three, which is what the motion calls for, so that the European Court of Auditors can have access to the ECB when it comes to support programmes of this kind? So that is separate from the monetary debate we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u221	Mr President, I am looking at you, and I am sure you are thinking, as I am, that this is a completely different subject, so we can still discuss it with each other. I think I have already said to Mrs Leijten that where monetary matters are, the Court of Auditors cannot deal with them, and that where it is non-monetary, I am broadly on the same lines as many in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u222	Then I suggest that you proceed with the last motion, that of Mr Omtzigt and Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u223	Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 1493, on OLAF. Here too, it is important to really see if we are doing something that is effective. OLAF is about fraud. This is about money. Mr Omtzigt is, of course, right: we are talking about a little European money that first moved to Greece, after which the Greek money ended up in care and went from care to Novartis. I think that is so circumstantial that I have doubts as to whether it makes sense to contact OLAF about this. So for that reason, I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u224	Indirectly, we come to a very large gap in the monitoring of European aid mechanisms. We have an intragovernmental EFSF and ESM. A few hundred billion euros of aid has been given to Greece, but also to Spain, Portugal, Ireland and a number of other countries. And so there can be no anti-fraud investigation, because there is no connection. I therefore have two requests. One. In the case of the European Monetary Fund, careful attention must be paid to the possibility of someone carrying out fraud investigations if a large amount of money is to be lent again. Because if we regulate it intergovernmentally, as this government wants, we will end up in the same trap. Two. I am holding this motion for a week to investigate who can support it. 'Cause this scandal is pretty big. It's a few billion dollars in public money. If we can get that back, I can see how we can change and file the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u225	I'd love to. We are in complete agreement that this is, of course, a scandal. Let there be no misunderstandings about that. It's a real scandal. But I have tried to say before that the good news is that the Greek Government and the Public Prosecutor are taking action here themselves. Of course, that could have been different. There are many considerations in the motion that I am enthusiastic about. The fact that I have hesitations has to do with the questions that OLAF is for and what Greece has already done. Do I have to play a part in this? What will be the effectiveness of knocking again? However, I very much agree with what Mr Omtzigt says about the need for someone to be able to carry out research in the future. We very much agree on that. So let him and I go and figure out what the most appropriate route is. Because there is no light between the success he and I are looking for: make sure that Greece gets, where necessary, so much backup that we have a real chance of getting the bottom stone up here, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u226	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u227	Let me say this to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u228	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (21501-07, No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-07-tweedekamer-7.u229	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday, at least in a few, not on all of them. I thank the Minister. I thank the Members of Parliament.
