ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome everyone to this debate at a quarter to eleven in the evening. I see everyone looks energetic. I guess everybody's looking forward to it. Me, too. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. The next item is the debate on the press release of the climate agreement. I give the floor to the applicant for this debate, Mr Jesse Klaver, on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, thank you. It is always a privilege to debate climate. Especially at such a nightly hour as this, because then the Binnenhof is actually at its most beautiful, so is this plenary room. I see from colleagues that they are full of energy to start this debate. Mr. Chairman. It is up to our generation to stop climate change. We may be facing the biggest change since reconstruction, as our Prime Minister said. That requires political leadership. You're not gonna make it through. You can't say there might be a CO tax in another cabinet period. You can't say coal power stations are shut down in another cabinet period. You can't say that the bio-industry has to shrink significantly in another cabinet period. If you say that, if you move all the important decisions forward, you can't call yourself the greenest cabinet ever. But it's not too late. The ambitions of this cabinet can still be fulfilled. That's what's needed. It can start in December, if there is to be a climate agreement, with which we are going to achieve 49% CO reduction. How will the Minister ensure that this objective is not achieved only under the most favourable conditions? How is the Minister going to ensure that there is not only a scenario to achieve 49% reduction, but also a 55% reduction? Which sectors do the Minister consider should make an additional effort? Mr. Chairman. At the moment, a climate agreement seems farther away than ever. As far as I am concerned, this is because politics is not giving enough direction at the tables. It's time to send out a clear signal. At the agricultural table: more needs to be done to further reduce the number of animals in the bio-industry this cabinet period. At the Mobility Table: that making plans about e.g. charging can be done just fine and that there is no taboo on it. At the Sector Table Built Environment: that the government will make it fiscally possible for building-related funding to be provided. And perhaps the most important thing, I didn't think I'd say it, but it's also perhaps the most feasible thing to say is that from next year onwards we're going to have a national CO tax for industry, as DNB proposed this week. The plans of the climate tables that were presented before the summer were strongly responded, in fact by everyone in this Chamber. They wouldn't be fair to civilians. That's right. The plans weren't fair to civilians. But for that we must not hold the tables responsible, but ourselves. It is up to the politicians to ensure that the costs of all these climate measures are distributed fairly among the citizens. We must do this through a wide range of taxes and expenditure for a fair distribution of the desires and burdens. What is the Minister's plan if there is no agreement in December? Does the Minister then draw the initiative to him? Mr. Chairman. The credibility of this cabinet depends not only on the success of the climate agreement, but also on the response to the historic Urgenda statements. It is high time we shut down the oldest coal power stations immediately. The PBL also says very clearly: without the closure of the coal plants you will not be able to get there. My colleague Mr Van der Lee has tabled an amendment to the EZK budget, which makes it possible to close the coal plants already in 2019. Finally, Mr President. Not so long ago, my group was a small group. That has the advantage of having a lot of wallets. For example, I had a portfolio in which I dealt with investment treaties. In that context, I've been working on the Energy Charter Treaty. We have tabled a motion on it, which has been passed. That motion calls on the cabinet to consider how this treaty should be amended to ensure that we are not legally vulnerable to the sustainability of our economy. My question is what is the situation with regard to the implementation of this motion. Does the Ministry have an idea of what legal vulnerabilities there are when it comes to this treaty on the further sustainability of our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr Klaver mentioned the burden on citizens. Now, as a result of climate policy, which Mr Klaver is such a fan of, the energy bill is going to go up tremendously, by €150 next year. How does Mr Klaver feel about that? Should the energy bill for GroenLinks stay down or the same and not increase further? What's to be done with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u4	We need to get that power bill down. I think it is a very bad idea for the cabinet to send up that energy bill. The interesting thing is that it doesn't have to go up at all. It has nothing to do with the sustainability this cabinet is working on. And you can do that, because we have shown this in our counter-budget, for example. It is very unwise to reduce that energy discount. You will also see in the Tax Plan that my colleague Bart Snels will come forward with amendments to restore that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u5	Indeed, that discount on the energy bill should not be reduced further. I couldn't agree more! Mr Klaver says literally: the energy bill must be lowered. Fine. I agree. Now, on behalf of the PVV, on 27 September last, I tabled a motion which says quite specifically: calls on the government to ensure that the energy bill falls. And there's really nothing crazy in this motion. I would almost think: if I read it that way, GroenLinks should be happy about it. But why is GroenLinks voting against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u6	Because there's no context at all. I think it's possible and your account doesn't have to rise any further. That's what we're showing in our election program. The interesting thing is that we may have the most radical electoral programme when it comes to reducing CO emissions from all parties here in the Chamber, but the bill in our programme is rising less than in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u7	Then again the question, Mr President. This is a very simple motion: calls on the government to ensure that the energy bill goes down. The PVV deliberately kept that open to allow the government to do so in one way or another. It doesn't matter how these energy charges go down, because that's the only thing that's gonna help the citizens. Then again the question: why is GroenLinks voting against it? Then what's wrong with a motion like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u8	This is such an open motion... We often vote against this kind of motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u9	I am very pleased with this input from Mr Klaver. I feel the same urgency he just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u10	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u11	I do have a question for him. We have worked with seven groups in this Chamber over the last few months to reach a broad-based climate law. Can I also interpret Mr Klaver's input in such a way that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants to see with the coalition how we are going to get this climate agreement as broadly-based as we have been able to achieve under the climate law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u12	Sure! If you really want to make climate policy a success, you have to make sure that it is not just something of the coalition or of the opposition. Then that will have to be very, very broad-based. That has always been our ambition and it still is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr. Chairman. These will be the most important years in the history of humanity, according to the chairman of the UN Climate Panel. We have one more political generation to limit warming to 1.5 oC. A huge challenge, but above all an opportunity. It is a chance for a warm comfortable home and a lower energy bill, clean air in the city center thanks to electric cars and space for the bike and less dependence on bad oil regimes thanks to solar and wind energy. And with the climate agreement, D66 wants to take advantage of those opportunities. Broad-based results are achieved in the Netherlands via the polder, but there is also criticism of the climate tables: much talk and too little action. I understand these concerns, because if the vested interests put the heels in the sand, the water will be up to our lips. Governments, businesses, environmental and consumer organisations now have the opportunity to make ambitious and concrete climate policies together. And the direction of the cabinet response is good, but D66 now wants to see concrete agreements. What commitment can we expect from the cabinet in the coming month to achieve this? Mr. Chairman. D66 will assess the climate agreement along three lines. Is it a real transition? Is it affordable for households? And are major polluters going to bear the heavy burden? For this to happen, sufficient labour market hands are needed, municipalities and provinces need to be able to take the role that we ask of them and to direct the Empire. First of all, that real transition. D66 wants no Band-Aids, no new problems for future generations. We want a real change for a clean future. So no, nuclear power is not the solution, sun, wind, hydrogen and storage is. A real transition also means as little CO storage as possible and smart handling of biomass. Is the use of climate tables realistic on this point, and how does the Minister steer? Or think of the change to circular agriculture: less CO, but also good food and a fair sandwich for farmers. Minister Schouten's vision stands, but now we have to move forward, for example by rewarding farmers who take climate action through subsidies from the common agricultural policy. We are also preparing for 55% less CO. The European Parliament now supports this objective. Is that what the climate tables are gonna deliver? How much megaton of CO does the minister expect from each table for that 55%? Does he also consider the costs and benefits for future generations in the assessment of measures in addition to the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr Jetten has shown himself to be very ambitious. Rightly so, it is an urgent problem. My question to Mr Jetten is: is he satisfied with what has been delivered by the Minister? He has already pointed out stagnation at the climate tables and reproached the parties, but it was the Minister who promised that there would be an agreement on the broad lines in June. I thought it was the minister who promised to get a pass-through. Is Mr Jetten satisfied with what the Minister has done so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u16	The climate tables have produced a very large palette of possible measures for the summer. In his response, the cabinet has now indicated a number of measures that it does not want because of agreements made in the government agreement. On a number of points, the cabinet has indicated that it may wish to use further subsidies for this purpose. I think that was the step we needed to make the second half of the climate tables work, but I do have some concerns. I really think that the cabinet and the various departments will have to participate actively in these tables in order to actually reach those concrete agreements this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u17	The length of the answer does indicate that Mr Jetten is avoiding my question. My question was very specific: is D66 satisfied with what the Minister has delivered in relation to what the Minister has promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u18	For me, one sentence in that letter is very important: in December, the cabinet expects the final proposals from these tables. I assume that the Minister will do everything in his power to ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u19	I don't hear the word "satisfied."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u20	No, but I think that we will all be satisfied only if there really is a final climate agreement that meets the ambitions of 49% to 55%. Mr. Chairman. The second line for D66 is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u21	At first I thought I was going to end this interruption, but now Mr Jetten is going to say the word '49' again. I would first like to congratulate him on the motion he tabled at the beginning of this year in which he called for 55% in Europe. It worked. The European Parliament has said that it must be. Is Mr Jetten now prepared to stop using the word '49' and just talk about 55% ambition? I think that's very appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u22	Unfortunately, the world is not as beautiful as Mr Van Raan is proposing. Look, the 55% of the European Parliament is fantastic. D66 MEP Gerbrandy fought for this long with many Dutch colleagues. The Netherlands now wants 55%, the European Parliament now wants 55%, but there are a lot of other governments that need 55%. We have, of course, also called on the Prime Minister to do his best. This climate agreement must yield at least 49%. But that is also why my questions: how do we ensure that these climate tables do more than that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u23	Okay. Mr Jetten now says: it was 49, but with a look at 55 as the level of ambition. Is he also willing to turn it around and say, no, we're assuming 55%? So is he also willing to give the order to the Minister: step away from the 49, and we are only going to the 55? If it does not succeed in Europe, fine, but at least we have done what is necessary. Is Mr Jetten prepared to respect his own motion, his own fellow group member in the European Parliament and the European Parliament's ruling and not talk about 49? A very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u24	I think it's going too fast. We have put those tables to work with the task of ensuring 49% reduction by 2030 and to identify what we need to do if we are to achieve that 55% scenario. I think we have shown in recent months how important this 55% scenario is. That UN climate report is really alarming; global warming is going much faster than we thought. If we don't work out that 55% properly, we're really gonna stick our heads in the sand. Hence my questions just now to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In addition to a real transition, D66 also wants that transition to be affordable for households. Departure from the gas is only possible if we help homeowners and corporations with insulation and alternatives to Groningen gas. A warm house and a lower energy bill must be made clear quickly what we do with gas and electricity prices. With regard to the perspective for households, I am also thinking of affordable, clean transport, with the promotion of bicycles and public transport, but above all with price incentives for dirty and clean cars, both on the new market and on the second-hand market. That clarity should not be for one or two years, but until 2025 and until 2030. Mr. Chairman. The third line on which D66 will assess this climate agreement is the question of whether the big boys will also bear the heavy burden. It's very simple: without the industry, we can't make Paris. Fortunately, a lot of companies want to get started. For example, look at Tata Steel, which wants to make hydrogen steel in IJmuiden, a clean way to produce steel. Unfortunately, not all companies take responsibility. I am therefore pleased that the cabinet is working on a price for CO. The polluter pays. My appeal to the Minister is not to wait too long and to put a price not only at the end of the pipe but at the entire raw material chain. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The challenge is great, but D66 sees opportunities for a cleaner Netherlands. The cabinet and the climate tables have to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u25	CO reduction is what Mr Jetten wants. I wonder: is he perhaps familiar with the physical phenomenon that water can absorb CO, that oceans can absorb CO and that there is a physical balance between the proportion of CO in water and in the atmosphere? What impact does this have on the climate policy that Mr Jetten is such a fan of? Can he respond to that? How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u26	I think that phenomenon was in the news again today, because the seas are warming up about six times as fast as we thought. All kinds of animals, flora and fauna under water die. The heat held by the seas will speed up global warming. So I think there is only extra urgency to come quickly with good climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u27	No, I don't mean that at all. The earth is made up of 70% water. This causes the oceans to absorb 98% of CO and that in the atmosphere is only 2% CO. This means that if you are going to reduce CO, the oceans will compensate 98% of that reduction. So you actually only have 2% effect. So the conclusion is that climate policy is not really going to do anything. Does Mr Jetten agree? Can he respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u28	No, I disagree. I believe that Mr Kops and I are never going to agree on whether climate change exists and whether human beings play a role in this. But I hope to hear in the contribution of Mr Kops how the PVV Dutch will help with a warm and comfortable home and a lower energy bill. Because we don't have to agree on climate change, but I think we can agree on how to take opportunities for Dutch people in a cleaner economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u29	I'm definitely gonna talk about that later. As far as the lower energy bill is concerned, the following. That energy bill is only increasing thanks to your climate policy. The solution is therefore to stop this climate policy. Mr Jetten is now saying very easily that we are not going to agree on climate change. He's said that before in a debate. It is, of course, very easy to avoid discussion in this way. Can't you just comment on the content of what I said? I said that the oceans are going to compensate 98% for the CO reduction in the atmosphere and that climate policy is not really going to help anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u30	I just said that the oceans are sending us a whole different signal. The water is warming up there so fast that it accelerates global warming. Only extra urgency to proceed quickly with good climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u31	I hear Mr Jetten saying that the sea warms up six times as fast as the earth. What's his source for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u32	No, the sea is warming up six times faster than we thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u33	Like we thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u35	So not six times faster than Earth? That's not what you said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u36	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u37	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Jetten's contribution was actually about the climate agreement, but of course this debate is also about the Urgenda statement. I have another question about this, because we are seeing now and the PBL also says that we are not going to achieve this 25% by 2020 and that additional measures need to be taken. What else does Mr Jetten see as options to ensure that in a year's time we will save those additional CO emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u39	I have often said here in the Chamber in previous debates that if we do not meet the objectives of Urgenda and the government needs to do more, among other things the closure of coal power stations is a very obvious option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u40	Very good. In my view, that is exactly what we need to do: to start closing down the oldest coal plants. But we have to start with that next year, if we want to get close to the Urgenda pronunciation. Does what Mr Jetten says mean? I have heard him say it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u41	My question to the Minister would be how he will prepare for the final verdict. The cabinet still has to decide: are we or are we not going into cassation? If the judge's ruling remains in place, then the government must also ultimately comply with such a court ruling. Then you shouldn't wait. I believe that the cabinet should now work and identify all the options for meeting the Urgenda objectives, so that we can act quickly when necessary at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u42	Now Mr Jetten says that the cabinet should map out the options, when we already know those options, of course. Mr Jetten may know that much better than I do. The closure of these coal plants is very important. That will have to happen next year. I think it is a very important signal if Mr Jetten and I... He just challenged me: will we stand together for this important climate policy? Sure. That is why it would be a good signal if we both said here to the Minister: prepare yourselves, those oldest coal power stations will have to close next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u43	I myself have a motion in preparation that has a broader approach route. The closure of these coal plants is an option, but you can also adjust the maximum speed on motorways, for example. You can take all kinds of measures in business. In the end, I don't really care which one we choose, as long as we make sure we meet the Urgenda objectives. My question to the cabinet would be: how does the cabinet prepare for any additional measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u44	As far as the reduction of these speeds is concerned, I also see the enthusiasm of my fellow Members. I'm looking forward to that, so let's work together on that, too. But let's be honest. Eventually, it's the closure of those coal plants that we're making the big hit. Lowering the speed limit certainly does something, especially for people's health. But if you really want to make a big deal about reducing CO emissions, it's about shutting down those coal plants. I'm very happy. I really see the space coming up here to close those things next year. Great!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u45	One comment on that. Once on the Hemwegcentrale in Amsterdam, but I also saw that GroenLinks proposes to close the Amercentrale in Brabant next year. This is also an old coal power station, but we must not forget that it also provides heat to thousands of houses in Brabant. So we need to think carefully: what measures can you and cannot take and what impact does it have on other goals we have? That is why I believe that the cabinet should map this well for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u46	All the appreciation for Mr Jetten's sense of problem and urgency and the willingness to think really out of the box on the grounds of urgency. Reduction in the speed limit has been mentioned, but there are also other effective measures. A report was published yesterday by De Nederlandsche Bank which shows that the strong price of CO at the level of €50 per tonne certainly has no disruptive effect on the economy and that it is an extremely effective instrument. Is Mr Jetten prepared to take this advice from De Nederlandsche Bank to heart and take it as a starting point for policy development?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u47	I have just said that I am very pleased that the cabinet is working on the elaboration of the CO price. I think that yesterday's statements by De Nederlandsche Bank are very good input for the Minister to get to work quickly and to come up with proposals in consultation with the tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u48	I would like to look a little further at the limits of urgency and the limits of willingness to do something. There are, of course, other extremely effective measures: the pricing of car traffic and the reduction of livestock. Are these options which Mr Jetten dares to allow in his thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u49	In my opinion, the task is so great that we should always consider all the options. But to take one of the examples that Mr Moorlag has just mentioned: the reduction of livestock. I myself very much believe that if we work together with the agricultural sector on this circular agriculture, we are going to provide much less CO, for good food, for an honest sandwich for those farmers, and that eventually a smaller herd will follow from it. But you have to do it together with the farmers, because you also want a good food production in the Netherlands. So I would take another starting point: how are we going to achieve this circular agriculture together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now turn to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am here to replace Mrs Beckerman, who unfortunately cannot be here unexpectedly due to illness. But these are her words. Mr. Chairman. Today we should have a debate on the climate agreement of the greenest cabinet ever. Instead, we have a debate on a stuck polder consultation and the weak response of the cabinet to it. And it has been warned in advance: polding about a climate agreement does not work. It's been predicted and it's happened. It is precisely the biggest polluters who do not come up with concrete plans. In fact, the biggest polluters are asking for more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u52	I should like to refer to the words of Mr Futselaar. He says the polder isn't working. Does Mr Futselaar of the SP think that you should simply impose by decree how to do it in the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u53	At some point, when discussions are stalled and interests are so opposite, it is up to a government to say: and now we are going this way. If you want results, and especially if you come from an extremely unfair situation, where you see that households pay relatively much and the most polluting companies relatively little, then I do think that the government should say once: and now we are going to do so. It's gonna end sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u54	Of course, we had the energy agreement. Mr Nijpels was also involved. He said, if we hadn't done that together with all the parties, we would never have succeeded. So then you might think you're gonna make it to the goal, because you're gonna execute it by decree, and in the meantime, you're gonna lose the whole society. Isn't that a danger that Mr Futselaar of the SP also sees by simply imposing rücksichtslos from above?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u55	That also depends on the measures you impose. I think most people are quite convinced of the need, but the cost to households is the crux. If it comes from consultation, or even not, that the situation remains so that the biggest polluters will eventually get away with the relatively smallest contribution, then I think you have lost your support. Then I will say: then you must stop polding and have a government to make decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u56	Does Mr Futselaar still see the possibility of having the tables negotiated with the government in the coming months? Or does Mr Futselaar say tonight: no, we are all done; it must end today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u57	We're in favour of negotiating. The cabinet decides not to levy a CO tax on large companies, according to the climate letter. Of course, you could use that as a stick to guide someone at the negotiating table in the right direction. You have to do something at some point and don't say: we'll wait a few months; we'll give you some more time. A limit has been reached at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u59	Yes, I was at my third sentence, Chairman. What is the government's response to delay tactics by the biggest polluters? They get a pat on the back. No CO taxation is imposed and polluters will not have to pay for the time being, which puts the interests of large companies above people's interests, while households pay the bill. The cabinet continues to spare the big polluters. My question to the Minister is whether he really still believes that there will be a climate agreement in the short term, without giving a clear mandate to these large polluting companies. The emissions, the environmental scandals affect a lot of people. Specifically the consequences of gas extraction affect a lot of people very deeply, we all know. Climate change will not wait for this cabinet and will not wait for the polder. And the longer we wait, the higher the price. Our climate policy does not work and is also unjust. Emissions are not decreasing but are increasing. The inequality is not decreasing but increasing. It is therefore time to show political courage and come up with a just climate agreement. So the choice is: how do we achieve a climate agreement that works? As far as the SP is concerned, we are indeed intervening, because it cannot be explained that emissions and energy bills are rising at the same time. 80% of emissions are generated by companies, 20% by households. And ten companies cause 50% of industry's emissions. But per tonne of CO emitted from gas consumption, households already pay €150 energy tax. Large industrial companies only pay €7,87. The government policy will further increase this difference next year. Companies pay 3.3 billion in climate damage, but they only pay 1.5 billion in compensation. Households cause 2.6 billion climate damage and pay 5.4 billion. That is not fair, and that is why we need a fair tax on pollution, not in years, not after the polder consultation, but as soon as possible. Is the Minister prepared to put the 'polluter pays' principle at the heart of climate policy and thus to introduce a fair tax on pollution? Mr. Chairman. How can we then create the support that we want? As far as we are concerned, we are throwing the proceeds of this kind of burden into a climate justice fund. If the biggest five polluters are willing to pay with them, then we are also willing to help them to make them more sustainable. With a climate justice fund, we can also help households to make the house more energy efficient, so that their energy bills and emissions fall and they get a better home. In Canada, a proposal was presented this week to do so. They introduce a CO tax and then return most of the revenue to the residents. Most households improve on this. Is the Minister prepared to introduce this into the Netherlands or at least investigate it? Mr. Chairman. We also need an energy transition with the workers. There are currently more people in green jobs worldwide than in grey ones, so more jobs can be created in the Netherlands as well. As far as SP is concerned, these jobs are made attractive so that vacancies can also be filled: good salaries, fixed contracts, safe jobs. Can the Minister also see if there will be a good labour market plan for the energy transition? Then the coal fund. Now that the government has been tapped by the judge and Urgenda has won the trial, our emissions must be reduced quickly. Is the Minister going to be in cassation or is he going to look at the possibility to intervene quickly? We have already discussed the accelerated closure of coal-fired power stations. That is an obvious step. This is not the first energy transition that the Netherlands has undergone. In the past, we got off the coals. When the mines closed, Limburg paid the price. After years of heating up the Netherlands, the miners were suddenly on the streets. Marx once said, history repeats itself, the first time as tragedy, the second time as farce. The energy transition in Limburg was a tragedy. Let us avoid the energy transition of this cabinet becoming a farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The climate agreement: disastrous and priceless, and then it's not even finished. Innumerable times, the PVV has asked this minister: what exactly is the cost of this climate madness? Each time he answered: "I don't know yet," "no opinion" or "we have to wait for the transfer of the planning agencies." Well, there's the cash-outs. Although, "overdrafts," it's a little vague analysis, no more than that. Because, as the planning agencies say, the climate plans are far too vague to be calculated at all. The exact total cost is still unclear. How's the burden-sharing? What are the income effects? None of them can be said yet. That's impossible, isn't it? Then came the Minister with a response: a vague, long-winded letter. It is striking how often it says that climate policy must be affordable. "Cost reduction," "cost efficiency" and even more of those cries are used so often that it is simply suspected. It's like a kid's done some mischief and then says to his mom 100 times, "No, Mom, I didn't do anything wrong." It is unbelievable, with the difference that this is not about mischief but about expensive climate policy, priceless climate policy. Exactly that's what the minister tries to cover up over and over again. You'd think there'd be an election coming up. But, Mr President, no matter how often people in the country are fooled, they are certainly not crazy. It is clear, however, that degassing all homes alone will cost EUR 253 billion. That's over €30,000 per house. It is also clear that, of course, people are not waiting for these expensive measures. It is also clear that the energy bill is already rising dramatically, despite the fact that the climate agreement is not yet final. Next year, €150 will be added with ease for an average household. That's just a cheap-ass money-laundering thing. So why affordability? Households go bankrupt in the long run. That is, of course, quite different from what the Minister is trying to tell us. A year ago, he said that the whole economic growth would go hand in hand with climate policy. Two months ago, he proudly said here in the Chamber: no, that's not true; climate policy costs only a few billion a year, so what are we talking about? And: that's all easy to pay; stop whining like that. Mr. Chairman. It's just not true. Research agency CE Delft has calculated that climate policy will cost as much as 50 billion a year. Until 2030, that will be a total of 600 billion. Those are amounts to make you dizzy. Can the Minister explain this? While he himself lowers the estimated costs, the estimates of independent research agencies are only increasing further. I would like to comment on this point. Mr. Chairman. Let's not forget what we're doing it all for. The Minister then says: we do it for the climate; this is good for the climate. That is strange, because the Planning Bureau for the Environment, which is under the government of the Netherlands, has said: "For climate change, of course, it does not matter what the Netherlands does or does not do." In short, as the PVV has said on many occasions, we are talking about expensive, priceless climate policies that are not good for anything. There is only one solution: stop this. Households are already on the verge of financial rounds and this minister with his ridiculous policy pushes them into it. People don't want and can't afford it. That's why the PVV says stop the green madness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u62	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u63	The PVV and the Party for Animals do not agree and do not agree on whether climate change comes from humans and so on. Perhaps Mr Kops can reflect on the following. It is increasingly known that the root cause of, for example, the flow of refugees that is now on the way from Central America to the United States is climate change. Central American farmers no longer have the security of existence they had in the past due to climate change and climate conditions. They have first moved to the big cities, but have not been able to build up their right to exist there. There was a lot of violence and eventually they're going to America. In other words, climate change, by which it comes, removes people's security of existence. I think it's true that the PVV doesn't like refugees, let alone climate refugees. Is it not good, from the point of view of self-interest, if the PVV also looks at the removal of these root causes in areas where many refugees are now coming from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u64	I'm just thinking, what am I supposed to do with this? Climate refugees have already been discussed in an earlier debate. I have also read UN reports on this. Not once in those very thick reports did the word "climate fugitive" occur. That's bullshit. I would like to ask Mr Van Raan a question again. How many of these so-called refugees have Mr Van Raan spoken to him: the climate in my own country is so bad that I came to the Netherlands, especially for the climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u65	It is a pity that Mr Kops did not draw that conclusion from those UN reports he did read. These conclusions have been drawn since 1997. The latest report on this subject, in particular on the refugees on their way from Central America, really increases climate change as a worsening of the causes of the flow of migrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u66	I think it's just a weird story. We have over 70,000 Syrians in this country. Then I wonder how many of them have said: I have fled climate change, because I am afraid that in my own country the earth is warming up at 0,00027°C; it is so unliving in my country, that is why I fled. I find it so unbelievable. That's really an opportunity argument. Mr Van Raan said earlier, and this is often said in the debate: we cannot agree on climate change, so let's leave it at that. That's getting out of the discussion. Of course, that's typical again. Then there are these occasional arguments, such as climate refugees, to push through the fairy tale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to all employees that they make it possible again that we are here tonight. In the Netherlands, we have a tradition in which our civil society, business and government work together. We also do this in climate policy at these climate tables. The CDA wishes all parties involved at the tables a great deal of wisdom in the further negotiations. The recently published IPCC report makes the urgency very clear. Ever since the Energy Agreement in 2013, I have advocated acceptance and a fair distribution of lusts and burdens. As my group leader said this summer, there seems to be a threat of polarisation between the Tesla rider and households who only see their energy bill rising. That climate transition can't be just the happy few who can afford it. As the Minister states in his letter, the transition must be feasible and affordable for every household and every Dutchman. This morning in the round table on the costs of climate policy, the company Pluimers also talked about this. They see energy saving as the kilo-blaster that's ahead of us and yet isn't being picked up. For example, households could reduce more than 4 megatons together. Mr. Chairman. That is why I was so angry last weekend when I read the answer to Mr Omtzigt's questions about the sums that we, as a society, cough up for the Tesla's in particular. This amounts to over €70,000 on a car of €120,000. Then I ask the Minister how cost-effective that is, especially if you consider that there are now long waiting lists for those electric cars and even the European car industry is now making the transition to electric driving. How are we ever gonna get credit when we deal with our tax revenues in this way? How does the Minister intend to spare households with the lowest and low incomes? What perspective do tenants or owners of a small fair in poorly isolated houses have on reducing heating costs? Is the Minister prepared to extend the ISDE to energy-saving measures in the short term, in 2019? And is he prepared to continue with the energy points in the climate agreement, so that households can also be given independent advice on energy saving, including the possibility of a better thermostat and the adjustment of the central heating boiler? Regional energy strategies will play a crucial role, and I will come back to that in the budget. Mr. Chairman. The CDA would like us to handle our gas network wisely. We see a future for green gas, for industry and for heating our homes. Green gas means hydrogen that can be generated, if there are surpluses, from renewable energy sources. It is also green gas produced from domestic biomass, which may not otherwise be possible. Do we have enough focus on which applications are available for hydrogen and what the effects on our net are? Is there already a targeted national programme for innovation and promotion of hydrogen and green gas in all their applications? How can that be even better, even now, from the SDE+? We can also see a role for EBN in this. How does the Minister view that? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few other questions. In the industry, we see that the SDE+ is being promoted and that a tailor-made approach is being used to match natural replacement moments. Can the Minister tell us how these two things go together? In addition, we hear different signals about whether the sale of non-emission-free cars should be prohibited by 2030. Is the Minister prepared to seek advice from the European Commission and the national attorney? Denmark would also like to go for a ban. I think we should seriously examine whether that is possible. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask about the effects of reopening the gas plant in Maasbracht. How does this work on national CO2 emissions, as this electricity is exported to Belgium for a very large part? And how far is the Minister to convince other European countries? Which other countries will actually go with the Netherlands for 49% or even 55% reduction in 2030? I would very much like an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u69	There is one thing at the heart of this whole argument, and that is acceptance. If you want support, building-related funding is an important measure when it comes to the built environment. That is something with which the climate tables have come very far. A very important part of this is the interest deduction. That's what the cabinet says: it can't be. It's in the cabinet response. You are a member of that coalition; you agree with that reaction. I don't understand why it's not possible. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u70	In my view, the cabinet has also asked the table to look further at the overall obstacles to building-related financing. I have spoken with the parties and I have heard that it is on behavioural elements, but also that certain financiers are wondering whether they are being sufficiently met. 'Cause imagine investing in a technique and not earning it all back. How's that going? How does that actually work out? That building-related funding is something the CDA wants. In fact, I'm a member of the fan club, along with Mrs. Dik-Faber and the minister. So that we seriously want something with that in the final conclusion of the climate agreement may be perfectly clear, but I do not have to give my consent to it now. Let us first find out more about how we can shape that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u71	You're not a member of parliament to join a fan club, are you? We're here to point out what it looks like, aren't we? These climate tables have come up with the idea of building-related financing. They have invented something for that: that mortgage interest rate deduction is there anyway; let's use it for that, because then it calculates around and we can make sure it's a business case. The cabinet and this coalition say we're not gonna do that. Then I ask why I can't, because I don't understand why I can't, and then I get some kind of answer saying: I'm a member of the fan club so I want it super happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u72	Here, Mr. Jesse Klaver doesn't always do these debates, but maybe only if he really wants to do them. Otherwise, he would have known that we agreed on this in the coalition agreement and that we have already discussed this a number of times in previous debates. It's a pity Mr. Klaver doesn't have that ready for a while, but of course I forgive him. That we would like this to be stated in the coalition agreement, and that is what we have given to the tables. So that a solution should be found is also absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u73	Nice try, and nice to say you've talked about this before in a debate. I ask you, very specifically, not to want this building-related funding, because that is what the government agreement says. I know the CDA wants it. Everyone wants it here. The question has been for years alone, and not just this year: how are we going to do that? And the closest thing to a solution were those climate tables. There was a plan that could, and the cabinet and this coalition are taking a crucial element out of it. I have a very simple question. Why are you taking that out? Why can't I? That is a very specific question. It's not about whether you want building-related funding. I ask you: why are you taking out the element of the interest deduction and saying that that is impossible? I don't get it, and I'd like an explanation from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u74	We think it is important to realise this building-related funding, so we do not disagree. Just now, Mr. Klaver acted like he was. I thought that was very special, so I wanted to make that right. This is one of the options in the final overall package, but it is not the only one for us at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u75	This is just putting words together, but not really giving an answer to a rather simple question. Again, I'm gonna try one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u76	Well!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u77	Those tables have indicated that they would like to use the mortgage interest deduction. And the cabinet and this coalition say, "You can't do that." Why can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u78	The CDA is going to make an overall assessment of all points. I am repeating myself a little bit, but we are going to weigh up everything that costs money in December. This is a bit too far ahead of the music. I am therefore very curious whether Mr Klaver will receive an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u79	I didn't ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u80	No, that's actually separate from Mr. Klaver, but that's okay if he's such a fan. I'd be happy to help him carry on his question. There will undoubtedly be an answer to that, because this did not appear in the questions put by Mr Klaver himself. It's fine to hear that here. I think that, in all the measures we are taking in this coalition and hopefully with a very large part of the House of Representatives, we should pay close attention to how it works out in total for the costs and revenues. I know that GroenLinks in his election programme has been billing for 1.7 billion more for residents. The CDA doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u81	I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u82	As Mr Klaver rightly pointed out, Mrs Mulder's contribution is strongly supported. That's what the PvdA is worried about. I have also heard what the chairman of the CDA group has said in public. That seemed implicitly to be a plea to turn back a little bit and be a little less ambitious. We have just heard Mr Jetten argue fervently that the ambitions cannot be large enough. The Minister has said that the wallet goes through the wallet. My question concerns the following. The purchasing power models of the CPB do not take into account the income effects of all kinds of climate and energy measures. This puts us in a situation where people have a worse purchasing power image, because these models are not designed for it. Does the CDA agree with me that these models need to be adapted in order to get a clear picture of the purchasing power effects, also in view of obtaining support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u83	Yes, and I have had debates on this with the Minister before. Together with Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD, I have also tabled a motion on this subject. That should be much more closely linked, because we do not have a good picture of this right now. The CDA does not want undesirable effects on lower incomes and middle incomes in particular, so that must be completely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u84	The Minister said in the past: we see that every year, because in August we are talking about the budget and we are looking at the purchasing power figures of the CPB. But that does not reflect these purchasing power effects. Do you think the Minister should reconsider his position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u85	Yes, I found that in the previous debate. That is why I was so pleased with the Minister's commitment to consider how to improve this. I had a commitment to that in a previous debate. That is an important point for us. So I also urge the Minister to come forward with a further presentation of how he intends to do that. Because this is just extremely important for the CDA and therefore also for the PvdA. That's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u86	Motions have also been tabled on the PvdA side to ensure that this is fully involved. Do I understand that for the CDA it is simply a tough condition that all the effects of the climate agreement, the climate and energy measures, should be seen in the purchasing power models and that they should be fully taken into account in purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u87	The CDA has been promised by the Minister that he will work on this, because we would like that insight. This is also important for broad support in society. So I think we're saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u88	I have a brief question for Mrs Mulder. Does she agree with the analysis of, for example, De Nederlandsche Bank, IPCC and perhaps even TU Delft? For many have said: the longer we wait, the more drastic the measures will be. This is likely to reduce the likelihood of acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u89	The Dutch Bank was also present at the climate round table this morning. It indicated that you can best ensure that you take action with as many countries as possible at the same time, i.e. at European level. That is why my final question to the Minister is how we are going to do that. That is important, because otherwise you will end up in suboptimal national measures. So anything we can do at European level is important. I also feel responsible from the House of Representatives, from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, where I am also working on this as rapporteur. I have been to the Benelux countries and I have also raised the issue of how we are in the Netherlands and we need them to be able to take these steps together. So we're not just putting a minister to work, we're putting ourselves to work. This shows that we are serious and committed to this and that we are well aware that we should start as soon as possible, but that we do have a palette of measures to choose from. You can look at prices, standards and subsidise. In that overall package you have to ensure that the loads are as low as possible, of course. We've heard from CE Delft today that if you don't do something, you're gonna get extra costs with fossil in the next few years. So anyway, we get extra costs for the choices, but we have to limit them as much as possible. We can do the very best just European.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u90	So that's a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr. Chairman. The main climate agreement. The good news is that most facts are on the table, but the bad news is: they are not pleasant. We're heading straight for a 3C world, after which a 4C world is almost inevitable, says IPCC. We're in the middle of the sixth extinction wave, says the WNF. We commit ecocide, and we actually know that deep down in our hearts. We're in injury time. Mr. Chairman. We are going to discuss two things: how does the polder model work as an instrument and what are the results? But first, this. Urgenda won the climate case already in 2015, but the additional measures did not come. Recently, the judge left no trace of the buttery Dutch climate policy. The court in The Hague concluded that the State has so far done too little to prevent dangerous climate change and is doing too little to make up for this delay. Targets are to be replaced by a different quote for 2030, and beyond that cannot eliminate the risk of a dangerous situation requiring intervention now. Mr. Chairman. In this connection, I would like to offer the full text of the ruling requesting that it be included as an annex in the Acts and not printed out now, but made available digitally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u93	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u94	This verdict demands, no demands radical action from the cabinet, but the polder model of the climate agreement only achieves what is possible in that polder and not what is necessary. It is therefore a proven inappropriate instrument if the two do not coincide, because the climate, the earth, does not negotiate. Former crown member of the SER Klaas van Egmond mentions the sabotage work of the fossil industry. Former CDA member of the Chamber Ad Lansink mentions the lack of leadership among politicians. Former Minister of the VVD Winsemius calls it professional meetings with each their sacred houses. The polder model as an instrument fails. Then the results. The climate agreement has all kinds of foundations that cannot be. Let me mention two: the storage of CO and biomass. CO storage has not been able to prove itself in the last ten years, as the European Court of Auditors confirmed last week. And it's not gonna work with the current CO prices either. Leaving the CO reduction target dependent on an unproven technique is a major risk. Mr. Chairman. Biomass has proven risks such as deforestation, biodiversity loss and food competition. It is very scarce and is quickly overwhelmed by the diverse applications. Leaving the CO reduction target dependent on a very scarce raw material is a major risk. We need substantially different instruments. Subsidies and support alone aren't gonna do it. The 1.5C world comes only by actively guiding sustainable behavior, with much sharper standards and prices. That is not just what we say; that is what the experts say. It didn't come out of the polder model. The DNB proposes a charge of €50 on top of the current CO price to do what is necessary. CE Delft proposes that the instrument offset external costs in order to do what is necessary. It didn't come out of the polder model. And we ourselves will also come up with a number of proposals that are necessary and which have not come out of the polder model either. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. The polder model fails as a process and fails with its returns. Delay increases costs, we know by now. Delay limits our freedom of choice to take measures. The Dutch Bank once again made it clear this morning that if we do not get to grips with the CO problem in good time, there will be financial crises ahead. That is quite a statement given the stature of De Nederlandsche Bank. In short, IPCC, Urgenda, WNF, DNB: all signals on red, five past twelve, injury time. And when does this minister stop polding and sliding? Or, like the climate strikers of PINK! Asking you, does our future interest you? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u95	Mr. Moorlag, I haven't limited the number of interruptions, but it's not unlimited either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u96	One brief question to Mr Van Raan. Does he believe that natural and environmental organisations are wrongly participating in the process leading to the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u97	I think you should note that not only do we do this, but also those organisations...... that it can never lead to a good result if you are going to polder with clubs that have all the interest in maintaining the current situation, the'most ribbed' ones, as they are called. That's what it turned out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u98	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. You just handed over a piece to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u99	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u100	That's a court order. You refer to it and anyone who wants to read it can just google it, because it's a public play.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u101	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but that's not the request. The request is that it be included in the Minutes. And you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u102	Well, I don't know. I do not want to give you any assurances that it will be included in the Acts. But anyone can find it. It's a public document, a court order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u103	But, Mr President, I would ask you to look into that and, for the time being, to include it as an annex to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u106	Then I will go to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Chairman. The SGP wants to get rid of fossil fuels, as a precaution. After all, we are stewards of this earth. For a safe Groningen, but also to stop paying billions of euros to unpredictable oil sheiks. The SGP does advocate smart sustainability, without blinkers. Energy supply must also remain reliable and affordable. When I look at the climate table tennis, I wonder: who is ruling at the moment? It is not Greenpeace and Shell who have to make up their minds about, for example, who is going to pay the bill. That's us. The Minister does not give a real, concrete response to various proposals. Investing 100 million annually to make the inland waterway fleet more sustainable? The government's juice appreciation merely states that it is necessary to make inland waterway transport more sustainable, but the key question, about the 100 million, is being bypassed. The mobility table finds a form of mileage tax for motorists inevitable, but the cabinet only talks about pilots. Yesterday, the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy came up with alarming figures: we are getting in more and more trouble in the coming years. As far as we're concerned, it's time to direct. So our question is: is the Minister going to sit down at the table himself, or how else is he going to shape the direction? Mr. Chairman. We don't live on an island. The cabinet wants a minimum CO price and closure of coal power stations. But we already have the European CO-emergency trading system. How is the cabinet going to book at the bottom of the CO-profit line and prevent Polish lignite power plants from turning harder in the meantime? Our question is therefore: do you take this with you in the following credit transfers? At the very least, opt for European coordination and back-lock of CO taxes to support sustainable investment. It is about heat pumps, hydrogen and windmills, but where is the focus on energy saving? I still think that's a child who's been held back. The power load goes down to keep the energy bill affordable, but aren't we waiting for a waste of power? Another question is how to keep the energy supply reliable. It is a matter of stress, especially if we become increasingly dependent on electricity because of the electrification of buildings, factories and cars. We are not counting on foreign countries in this respect, because Belgium already needs electricity from the Netherlands this winter. The Minister nods, so that's true. We already know that wind farms and solar panels provide little power a few weeks a year. Unfortunately, the planning agency did not have time for a stress test, but considers it necessary. That's right. Our question is whether the Minister would like to take that up quickly. In our opinion, anyone who thinks that smart cars and washing machines will keep a reliable energy supply is naive. The IPCC also says: all hands on deck, don't forget nuclear power. Our question is: how does the cabinet weigh this? In any case, the SGP wants more innovation, more use of natural heat sources and use of thorium. Mr President, then the flight tax. It is impossible for you to fly to Barcelona for a few tens, while the relative CO emission is a multiple of that of a train journey. The SGP therefore calls for the rapid introduction of a heavy flight tax. We only charge as follows: if you would charge €15 per flight tax ticket, you will get a return of about 0.5 billion euros per year. We can invest that 0.5 billion in keeping the energy transition affordable as far as we are concerned. In conclusion: in 40 years I will see oilsheiks and coal farmers sitting around the table with gloomy faces. And I hear them say: that's what the Dutch have done smartly. With a dash under "smart." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u108	I have a brief question for Mr Stoffer. I've heard him talk about thorium in this house before. Thorium is very expensive. We don't have that for 2050 either. And then we really must have realized the energy transition. There is still waste. How is it that the SGP says: this is really an option that we need to examine with each other and at least keep in the air?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u109	Opinions are divided, but we believe that you should focus on innovation. It may well be that after examination it turns out that this isn't him. I asked this question today, for example, at the hearing we had on the cost of the energy transition. But maybe this is a very good solution. As far as I'm concerned, we should look beyond 2050. So maybe by then it'll be a replacement for things that we have now, but which still turn out to be less efficient. So we say, "Bet on that innovation and please let's see if there are any opportunities there." Maybe a gear's possible. We're not gonna make it to 2030. I've figured that out by now. Only 2050? I'm still not giving up, but that's just the difference between you and me, I think. For the rest, I think we are pretty much on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u110	I think it's gonna be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u111	It's okay, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u112	Sure, but still: you can only spend your innovation money once. Then what do you spend it on? Then you spend it with thorium on a technique that saddles humanity with garbage. Although less than nuclear energy, there is and remains waste. That cannot be the intention, if we can take so much really clean energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u113	If it's possible without thorium, be my guest. But we believe that this is also necessary and that you will not be able to do so without such an option. We are also saying that we need to investigate thoroughly, because as far as we are concerned, this still seems to be a real option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u114	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The second half of the discussions at the sectoral tables is an important stage, because it must now become concrete. How are we going to achieve the goals? What is needed and how do we ensure that everyone can participate? The Christian Union considers it important to take our responsibility now, for the creation and for the future of our children and grandchildren. We want an energy transition within one generation. The industry needs to emit much less CO2. Our homes are being isolated from the Groningen gas. Electric driving becomes the new normal. And we're going to a climate-smart agricultural system. The Minister instructed the sectoral tables to give a more explicit picture of additional measures towards 55% reduction. In addition, there should be a 95% reduction in 2050. How does the Minister intend to gain more insight into these two objectives? The energy transition is not for the green bobos. The challenge is to let everyone benefit: tenants and homeowners, people with a lot and people with barely any money behind their hands. A commitment to energy saving, insulation and renewable energy sources also means saving money and improving living comfort. It is a choice between an ever higher energy bill or no or little energy costs in the future. My group therefore welcomes the fact that it is also being examined whether the so-called refund for the energy tax can be increased. My question to the Minister is: how is building-related funding going? That is what my group is concerned about. Mr. Chairman. With the negotiations that are still under way and the concerns that exist, I would like to stress that there are also a lot of people in our country who are not waiting and who are putting their shoulders on them. There are countless initiatives in the country of people who are working on the energy transition, people who want to make their neighborhood natural gas free. There is a district in Utrecht where electric subcars run on solar energy from the district. I am very pleased with all these wonderful initiatives. Mr. Chairman. In order to share the burden fairly, industry will also have to contribute to the energy transition. It is good that the CO minimum price for industry is on the agenda with the option of a backlock. This money will make it possible to pay for necessary investments in saving and sustainability without paying for this by households. It came along: De Nederlandsche Bank also wants a heavy tax on CO emissions, even if it does not happen in a European context. According to the bank, a tax of €50 per tonne has no major impact on the Dutch economy as a whole. A CO levy for industry is necessary to address the problem at source. It is also a good thing that the Minister continues the CO-minimum price for 2020 in the electricity sector and seeks alignment with neighbouring countries. Mr. Chairman. Biomass is scarce, while demand is enormous. There are often questions about sustainability. Scientists, I mention in particular Louise Vet, point to the loss of valuable biodiversity. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this calls for sharp choices on the use of biomass. For example, use it for sustainable mobility or the chemical industry, but no longer for electricity production. There are much better alternatives to this. The Christian Union would like to delete from the SDE+ electricity generation from biomass in line with the government agreement. Mr. Chairman. Regional energy strategies are being harnessed. The meetings are getting rigged up. How's that going in practice? Does the Minister have a visual on that? Are the issues to be dealt with on the agenda? I refer in particular to the subject of labour market and training. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u116	You're almost finishing up. I suggest you do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u117	Okay. Finally, the Urgenda pronunciation. The Minister also has an important objective to achieve in the shorter term, namely 25% CO reduction by 2020 following the Urgenda ruling. This is going to be quite a challenge, because we are at 13% reduction in 2017. In the forecasts, the margin of uncertainty for 2020 is 19% to 27%. How does the Minister intend to comply with the climate ruling? Is he prepared to map the options in the short term so that we can take action in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u118	Briefly about biomass. We agree that it is scarce and costly and that there is actually no sustainable biomass. Are you willing not to use it as animal feed? It's so scarce that we can't afford it at all. Are you prepared not to include biomass for animal feed in that ladder that you run?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u119	We discussed an extensive agricultural budget this afternoon. I thought that would be a good time to put this question to you. I didn't get the question then. We're gonna work together on circular agriculture. That's the dot on the horizon of this cabinet. We have to take all the necessary measures. We're going to feed the animals with as much food as we can up close. We discussed the various aspects of that vision in detail this afternoon. I can imagine that biomass is still present to some extent as animal feed, but I cannot answer the question whether or not it is and how or what. I should take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u121	Thank you, Mr President. It would be shortsighted if we, as representatives of the people, were only concerned about the Netherlands today. If we did not look beyond the concerns that people now have, we would not have to worry about education, for example. After all, children who are currently in school will not be on the labour market for 15 or 20 years and we will see what they can do. We wouldn't care about public debt either, because it doesn't have to pay off our generation. Mr President, I do not want to be such a representative. In fact, I'm not. I am here for this generation, but also for the people who will come after us. With this ambition comes the duty to simply take up matters that we cannot postpone. If we did not do that, it would not only be shortsighted, but also very selfish. The VVD wants the Netherlands to remain a pleasant and fine country, even for generations after us. Well, then, we're gonna have to take action now. That is not settled overnight, it will cost money and it will not necessarily be easy. But we're going for it. But beware: as far as the VVD is concerned, it is of course not a CO reduction at all costs. We need to shape the transition from dirty fuels to clean forms of energy in a smart way. This must be done in such a way that it is easy and affordable for all Dutch people. We all need clean air for our children, a pleasant home, a strong economy and new jobs. We will be opposed to that, because on the one hand you have the climate deniers who do not believe in anything and say "I don't care," especially not to have to take any responsibility. On the other hand, you've got some drammers who want to decide for you and for me how to live our lives. I suggest that we leave both groups for what they are and focus on climate policy with common sense. I would like to use this debate to once again give some framework conditions to the Minister so that he can stimulate and motivate the climate tables to apply that common sense. I see I have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u123	Climate policy with common sense, that really sounds like music to me. The Nederlandsche Bank came from the corner surprisingly, when he talked about a CO-tax. Following the CPB around Prinsjesdag, DNB says it would be very good if the Netherlands introduced it. It doesn't have much effect on industry and the Dutch economy. In fact, if you give back the money you collect wisely, it will even have a positive effect on the economy. Does this mean that the VVD is now in favour of introducing a minimum CO price in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u124	I would advise Mr Klaver to read the whole report and in particular Bullet 2 of the conclusions. It is very compactly summarised that it may not have a detrimental effect on the economy as a whole, but that it has a significantly deteriorating impact on international competitiveness for those sectors that are very strong in our country, such as the metal sector. We talked about it extensively with DNB this morning. I asked the same question. I thought it was a very special starting point of DNB. The representative of De Nederlandsche Bank has said that he wants to pick up the gauntlet to see if we should have made a precondition that international competitiveness is not damaged. I think it's a report with a lot to do, to be honest. And I am surprised that a party like GroenLinks is not concerned about all those thousands of jobs that could disappear from our country, as it literally says that it would significantly harm competitiveness for a large number of sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u125	The report makes it very clear that it has enormous positive benefits for the Dutch economy if the Netherlands is to lead the way. And yes, there will also be sectors where this is harder and then you might have to deliver customization. Then perhaps you will have to make sure that you give some extra support to those sectors, but that is also indicated. That is, if you are talking about sensible policies, also sensible. But in the end it is concluded that for the Netherlands as a whole the Netherlands as a whole! It is better to introduce such a CO tax. Everyone's starting to find that now. We have found it for years, but there are more and more political parties here saying it. The CPB said it around Prince's Day. The Dutch Bank now says: let us do so, because for the Netherlands as a whole it is an important measure; do it now. When is the VVD going to recognise that we are going to give clarity to business for the next few years and that we are going to encourage them to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u126	We have a European award, ETS, and I believe that all the studies show that it is very damaging to your competitive position if you do it very differently at national level and it does not fit in with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u127	Call me two tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u128	DNB's research also says this literally: a significant deterioration in international competitiveness in at least four sectors: the energy sector, the metal sector,... You nod no, but you can just look it up. It's just there! That is something we then have to worry about, and then we just have to look crazy. If you want to enter it and if it is an appropriate means, what amount is it? How does it connect to ETS? Then how can you see it in conjunction? That's how to look at it. You should not just do something as a country but yourself and hope that those thousands of jobs do not disappear. I think that's a weird policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u129	Finally. What De Nederlandsche Bank's report shows is that Dutch companies currently have a competitive advantage, because energy prices are lower here and a lower price is paid for CO emissions. As a result, there is no level playing field in Europe. So it shows that we have the space to increase that price here, because De Nederlandsche Bank says: in the short term it may have a negative effect for different sectors, but for the economy as a whole it is positive. But if we dare to take the lead now, everyone in the Netherlands, including those other sectors, will benefit from it. As long as we dare to lead the way. It would really be awesome if the VVD, which starts here with wonderful words about our responsibility for future generations, was not prepared to take a step towards a CO tax that is indeed going to affect the big industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u130	Taking responsibility is also to ensure that thousands of jobs are not lost by people who depend on those jobs for their sandwiches. You have to conduct smart policies, and if the CO price in business is part of that, then you have to balance it. You have to look at how it fits into ETS and the countries around us, and you have to monitor our international competitiveness. Then you're smart and not symbolic politics where you also run the huge risk of just putting people out on the street. Indeed, the VVD will not choose to do so, because that is not to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u131	Then let me try another way. It is true that we are on all kinds of lists at the bottom, those European lists on pollution. You know that, because that is a fact, as well as it is a fact that we have a competitive advantage because we do not pass everything on to prices. Actually, the VVD says: we can be competitive by cheating a little bit and by wallowing costs. That's one. But not only that, because two is that we shouldn't pass on any costs to the future either, because that is what the Monitor Brede Prosperity indicates. The Netherlands can have such a strong economy by interfering with the future generations you have just talked about and elsewhere. "Elders" are the countries where we get the raw materials cheaply. And that is plus the competitive advantage we have by being Europe's dirtiest little boy. So I find it very disappointing that the VVD just says: yes, we have a competitive advantage by cheating a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u132	The Party for Animals can find it very disappointing that the VVD thinks you can conduct smart climate policies and keep the jobs here. In fact, we think we can create even more jobs. We know the Party would choose another line for the Animals. Well, I'm not going for that. Mr President, I shall continue. I have four conditions that I would like to give the Minister with the request that he take them to the climate tables. The first is that all the measures that come out of it, and especially the cohesion, must be acceptable to every Dutchman. Amenable in terms of affordable, so cost-effective measures. And behavior in the sense that people just want to know what they're up to. There's just a lot of uncertainty right now. There is rightly a lot of talk about it, but the people at home just want to know what's going to happen in their neighborhood and their city and what it's going to look like. Mr. Chairman. The second condition is this. I would very much like to see the perspective of action at these tables at the centre. At the moment when people have an action perspective, they can make a choice, they are encouraged to make a positive choice. Rather than punishing people without an action perspective with, for example, heavier burdens. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my third condition. Moreover, I see that my time is running out, Mr President, so I do not know how far I am now. Okay, he's running again. I won't cheat here; I'm almost done. My third condition, which we have just mentioned, is that innovation should be promoted above all. We're a small country that's grown big because of our innovative power. For global problems, we are looking for the solution here and we are bringing it out. I very much hope that we can do the same with climate policy, and that we can strengthen our economy rather than destroy it. Mr. Chairman. In order to be able to really shape these three conditions, it is very important that at some point those tables are going to rise above themselves and that they are going to seek the connection with each other. There is now a very bad sector approach to achieving concrete measures, which I understand. But it is important that at some point there is also integration and that it is looked at as a system, so that we can really set our country up for this huge transition. I would like to ask the Minister to convey these four conditions and to make a firm effort. Then I think that we have a very good chance of climate policy with common sense, which hopefully also benefits the Netherlands and every Dutchman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mr. Chairman. In order to ensure clean, sustainable energy and a country where we can keep dry feet in the future, we must now all put our hands on it to reduce CO emissions by 95% by 2050. That's what we're going to anchor in the Climate Act. We also need a climate agreement. But where are we now? The PvdA is concerned and considers that the Minister is not performing sufficiently. Contrary to what has been promised, there is no climate agreement on the main lines but a proposal on the main lines. There is, unlike promised, no passing on the costs. The consulting firms, the Planning Office for the Environment and the like, were not well able to make a proper pass-through based on what was produced. The approach is incomplete and leaves a number of shortcomings; the approach also has a number of large white spots. I would like to mention a few, first of all the point I raised earlier, the ESC opinion and education and labour market policy. There is an opportunity to create tens of thousands of new green jobs, and that opportunity is not sufficiently cashed. Education and labour market policies really need to be pursued. Mr. Chairman. We have just spoken very easily about the rapid closure of coal power stations, but we have to realise that there are people at work in these power stations at the moment. They're just doing a night shift and making sure that we can charge our iPad, that we can have this debate here and that the lights are burning here. Those people are very concerned about the survival of their jobs. I think that is a legitimate concern. We are now saying very easily: well, by 2020 we may have to close down those coal plants. That is a very sharp stone in the shoe, including in the workers' organisation. To be honest, I do not understand why the Minister does not take that very seriously from the workers' organisation. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to fully adopt the ESC opinion, a broad-based opinion on labour market policy. Mr. Chairman. To the taste of the Labour Party, the approach also focuses too much on low-hanging fruit. The Minister's CO-ton hunt is about to become penny wise, pound foolish. To achieve the long-term goals, we must already invest in a coherent system of hydrogen production, distribution and storage, among other things. But we also need to strengthen the HSL network, for example. People stay traveling. There will have to be an alternative to far too high an environmental burden. Does the Minister share that view? Mr. Chairman. A number of speakers have already called for attention to be paid to the report by De Nederlandsche Bank. Yeah, it's a solid report, with firm conclusions. The most robust conclusion is that a firm pricing of CO is the most useful, necessary and desirable measure to reduce CO emissions. The proceeds of the measure can be used to reduce the burden and mitigate the costs for the companies that really come in the door. I do not understand why Mrs Yeşilgöz has so strongly distanced herself from an incentive and an instrument proposed by DNB, which, in my view, cannot be more liberal than liberal, namely with price incentives to provoke the desired behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u135	Now, of course, I have a question to ask, Mr President, but I would like to respond to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u136	Yeah, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u137	It is not that I distance myself from an instrument. The instrument is in the Juice of the Cabinet and I have not asked any questions about it at all. I've read how the cabinet formulates it, and I don't think that's weird at all. At the moment when you're linking an amount to it and doing a very one-sided investigation, as far as I'm concerned, as DNB has done, and you're concluding that it could seriously harm the PvdA here on my side, I'm saying that you have to see if it has the desired effect. Is it working? Does it fit in with ETS, what the surrounding countries do? Then it can have a good effect. We can achieve that CO reduction tomorrow: all companies out of the country and we are there. But I don't think that's what we want. And that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u138	We should not fall into the trap of creating doom scenarios, such as thousands of jobs may be lost. The CO levy also achieves a return. And a CO levy can also be introduced differentiatedly. For those sectors where the competitive disadvantage is so severe that there is a threat of survival, can you achieve the desired effect with a slight differentiation on that simple instrument that requires very few rules? I must not forget that a company such as Tata Steel, the most innovative steel company, is disappearing from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u139	Now we're talking about something. But the report states that, for example, the metal industry would be so damaged that it would mean a significant deterioration in international competitiveness. Mr Moorlag calls himself Tata. So, yeah, I think you should look at it wisely. You need to look at it in conjunction, you need to adjust the ETS price and you need to make sure that the surrounding countries participate. And then there's something we're talking about. I'm just putting the nuance back in where it's being looked at in a very specific way. My final point, Mr President. Mr Moorlag was also present this morning. This is how we discussed it there. This was also the conversation I had with DNB. They also said that this is an aspect that we can look at. So this comment isn't that weird. In fact, it was recognized.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u140	But she'll be majored for my taste. There are four industries that can really get in the door, as I call it. You can create an exception for that or you can use part of the proceeds to take mitigating measures for those industries. But it is an extremely simple instrument. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to include that DNB report in the discussions at the climate tables and to provide a social cost-benefit analysis. In this way we can get a very clear picture of exactly what the social benefits and burdens are and we can make a good, thorough political assessment here. I believe that this debate will only help us to achieve this. Mr. Chairman. To give an appreciation of an appreciation in four minutes is not possible. But for the PvdA it is perfectly clear: the summer report does not yet give enough. We have 56 days to go until Christmas. That's exactly eight weeks. I wish the Minister a better Christmas report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you. Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u142	Energy transition and climate thinking are among the greatest cons of our time. It is the product of a sort of utopian delusion like the massive waves of immigration that have started in recent decades, which have still not stopped and have cost society a great deal of money and have yielded virtually nothing. If you believe that CO2 is one-on-one responsible for the little bit of climate change we see, if you believe that... It's very controversial. There are all kinds of other visions on which the climate would or would not change and which models then exactly and so on. But if you believe that, even if you believe all that, then the Netherlands, if it fully adheres to all the goals set, would cause less climate change by 2030 0.00007°C. A completely unmeasurable, completely insignificant number. And if all the countries that have committed themselves to the Paris objectives were to abide by what they have promised, it would result in a climate change if you believed those models at 0.05°C. Again a completely insignificant and unmeasurable temperature difference. So it is absurd, really absurd to throw so many, hundreds, thousands of billions into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u143	I see Mr Baudet for a few weeks now very excited that zero point zero, a number of zeros and then a seven...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u144	0.00007°C.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u145	Now I wonder who here has ever claimed that the climate targets of this cabinet and the measures that could follow would have such a significant impact on overall global emissions. I don't think anyone's ever said that before. What Mr Baudet actually makes clear with this statement is that the Netherlands is a small country. But we already knew that. That's not news. What we want to achieve precisely in this way is to take responsibility for the generations after us, to contribute our part. That's good for our signature. What we as a small country have become very big with in the past, the history of the Netherlands, is, for example, to come up with brilliant solutions to global problems such as dealing with water, for example being the second country in the world when it comes to exporting agriculture. That's what you do when you're at the forefront of innovation. We already knew that we were a small country, but we knew that we could do very big things with it. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u146	First of all. If the Netherlands were to achieve less global warming with all these measures 0,00007°C, it would indeed not matter at all on a global scale. Then there is therefore no reason to do so, if you think from the Dutch interest, but also if you think from the global interest, because that 0.00007°C will also have no effect on a global scale. But calculations have also been made, as I mentioned, of what would happen worldwide if all those countries that have committed themselves to certain objectives in those Paris agreements were all to abide by what they have promised, which of course they are not going to do. But even if they do all that, and even if you believe in all those climate models, which always don't turn out to be true, well... Suppose you all believe in that, then you reach a climate difference of 0,05°C, which is again a completely unmeasurable thing. So you have to step away from all that climate thinking. You have to step completely away from the idea of obsessive CO reduction. You have to think: what are we going to do, what is good for the Netherlands, what is good for, well, our society, our economy? So one of the things that you should definitely not do is shut down the coal power stations. One of the things you should definitely not do is subsidise biomass and windmills, which are horrible horizon-polluting and cost-efficient windmills, subsidising and so on, and so on. You shouldn't do any of that. There are all kinds of things you can do with that 1,000 billion you save with that. 1,000 billion; €20,000 for heat pumps that the VVD, like GroenLinks and other parties, wants to impose on households. 210 billion in isolation costs for businesses. Another 230 billion for households. 130 billion in subsidies for windmills and solar panels. All wasted money...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u147	Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u148	...that you can spend on so many better things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u149	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u150	Yeşilgöz, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u151	No, the point is that the interruptions must always be short, but so must the answers. Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mr President, I shall be brief. Mr Baudet does not have to believe in the climate models. I'm not going to explain to him that the world is round. That's all right. He can deny it from me and take no responsibility. But what if we know that everyone is working on it somehow, and we in our country, with the innovative power that has made the Netherlands great, can find the solutions they are looking for worldwide, and export them and make a huge amount of money? That's not a fictional situation. That's what we did with water. That's what we do with agriculture. I am sure that Mr Baudet himself can give many more examples. So why should we let that get over us and let other countries score with it, when we can make a lot of money ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u153	Those two have nothing to do with each other. If you want to invest in innovative research projects by, for example, having all kinds of universities do technical research or one of the things Forum wants to do, education is so much to boost in the Netherlands that we can have the goal of winning a Nobel Prize again in 2030, yes, fine, you can imagine. But that has nothing whatsoever to do with CO or climate goals and so on. If you're going to disconnect it and you're just going to have a conversation with each other about what kind of investment we can do as a Dutch society to stimulate knowledge innovation in all kinds of areas, fine. Only, we are now talking about a rather specific package of measures aimed at reducing CO emissions, because there would be a presumption that this would have a significant impact on the climate. Clearly, that is not the case. This removes the basis for all these measures. I would add that most of these measures have nothing whatsoever to do with stimulating innovation and so on, but are only a lot of subsidies for non-profitable things such as biomass and windmills and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u154	At half past midnight, there must be hordes of people watching this debate. They get hope. They're thinking, tomorrow I'm going to the House of Representatives. Then I go to Mr Baudet and say: my contribution to the total tax revenue in the Netherlands is not significant, so I just stop paying. What does Mr Baudet say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u155	I do not understand what this comparison has to do with the debate. I think it's a totally irrelevant remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u156	Someone who always lets himself down as an intellectual should understand where this is going. The total revenue of around 10 million taxpayers in the Netherlands is 300 billion. People contribute 0.00001% per person to that total tax revenue. So it is right that they say: my contribution is not significant, so I do not have to participate in that tax, because yes, it doesn't matter; that 0.00001%, no one will notice. What does Mr Baudet say to all those people who are about to report because they do not want to pay taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u157	The Forum for Democracy is a strong supporter of tax cuts, so at least we can find each other somewhere halfway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u158	Yes, but finding each other somewhere halfway is something else to say: then you don't have to pay at all. That's exactly what it's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u159	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u160	That is exactly what climate change is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u161	Of course not, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u162	Eventually, the Netherlands is a small country in that very big world and it's about what contribution you make together. We have steps to take. Much larger countries have steps to take. That's what happens. In that sense, the comparison with tax is going to pay...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u163	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u164	... it's definitely out. If you're going to see what the contribution per person is, per Dutchman, it's not significant. If you add it up, that's what we run this beautiful country from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u165	Yes, but that comparison does not go far enough, if that is what Mr Klaver means. The impact of taxation is real. That is a certain amount per person. That is a real impact. 0,00007°C is not a real impact. It is not useful to spend 1,000 billion on it. I would add that even if all those other countries were to do what they promised, what they are not going to do, you would end up at 0.05°C, which is still completely negligible and a very bad investment. Of course, if you spend a small part on something useful, it might be useful, but if you spend a small part on something that isn't useful, then it doesn't stay useful. So the equation is limp to my senses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u166	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u167	In my opinion, Mr Baudet should really stick to writing books and not calculate all the costs of climate change, what exactly is happening with contributions to degrees Celsius, or what it contributes to global warming or not. The costs he is talking about are now up to EUR 1,000 billion. Then he's talking about heat pumps and 1,000 billion. We have about 7 million houses in the Netherlands. If those heat pumps cost €20,000, we're at 14 billion. If it really is going to cost 1,000 billion, we can provide a house with a new heat pump every year over the next thirty years! If we want to have this debate together, I think Mr Baudet is right to make up for his sums. Of course, this is going to cost a lot of money, billions even, but if you're going to throw words like "this is going to cost thousands of billions" or "this isn't going to contribute at all to solving the global warming problem," you're going to make it so big that it's going to be very difficult to have a serious debate on all those points that Mr Baudet also wants to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u168	Yeah, it's a big topic, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u169	When's it gonna be real? How do we get all the people in this country to see this? How do we ensure that other countries also cooperate, so that the contribution of the Netherlands does not just fall into the water? Those are the questions, Mr. Baudet. You're scattering "thousands of billions" here. Learn how to do math.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u170	Well, for example, the Economic Institute for Construction has calculated that it costs 230 billion for all those households. We are also talking about all those heat pumps that you want them all to buy, but also about insulation materials that need to be placed and about towering energy bills that are constantly rising. For companies, this planned energy transition costs 210 billion. Sun and wind subsidies: 140 billion minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u171	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u172	So "learn to calculate" I would say: learn to calculate yourself. These are just the amounts that are being worked on. There will still be zooming in on all kinds of sub-points. Then you can say: that might cost another 3 billion; that might cost another 5 billion. But in total, we are indeed talking about a cost picture for the Netherlands that can easily reach 1,000 billion. So we are only talking about the Netherlands. These are largely costs that do not go, I repeat, to investments in innovation and so on, but simply to the obsessive reduction of CO and subsidies. It's pumping money around in non-profitable sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u173	I dare you. I challenge Mr Baudet. Maybe it's on his phone. Maybe he wants to do it in the second term; add up. Why don't you go and add it all up? I can't wait to see where you're going. 1,000 billion? Fine. Let's see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u174	I can give you a summary of all kinds of things that were discussed at the hearing this morning that you were not present at. I can also refer to a previous hearing we had with, among other things, the PBL and with CE Delft. You weren't there either, Mr. Klaver. We have talked about this in the Chamber at countless times. There have also been a lot of international studies. I would say that you would like to quote my books. It is always good if you do so, but there are also many other scientific or non-scientific publications that I can recommend to you. We can talk about that again if you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u175	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u176	Yeah, actually, finally. To be quite honest, I must say that for someone who calls himself an outsider in The Hague politics, please bear in mind how well you understand the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u178	I'm expecting someone from the CDA to refer to debates you haven't been to. The old cabbage Second Chamber tricks control you like no other. Very well, but what I asked was: add up to 1,000 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u179	Yeah, I just want to enjoy this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u180	Add up to 1,000 billion. You won't do it. You come up with all sorts of distractions about who all said something. Yeah, of course, people talk all the time. All kinds of figures are constantly mentioned. You say 1,000 billion. Make it hard. Put it on paper. Why don't you let it go through? And if you're not prepared to do that, I'd say lower your tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u181	I just mentioned the Economic Institute for Construction. That's a renowned institution. It has calculated that all the requirements to achieve 95% CO reduction will cost 230 billion, that it will cost companies another 210 billion and that subsidies on wind and solar energy can reach 140 billion. So we are talking about 600 to 650 billion and then there are many other sectors and consequences...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u182	No, that's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u183	230 plus 210 plus 140 plus all kinds of other sectors and costs mentioned by, among others, the PBL. These are the annual 2 to 4 billion additional costs that come in addition to the reference scenario and so on. I'm not alone in this, by the way. I'm not standing here on my own behalf. I quote this organisation and countless other investigative bodies that mention these amounts. It's not weird at all: if you're aiming to change and reverse our total energy supply and go to an absurd 95% reduction in CO...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u184	I'm going to see Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u185	...then it's just a huge cost. Be honest. Tell the honest story. You, Mr. Clover, sell fairy tales.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u186	I'm going to see Mr Moorlag. What are you gonna ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u187	I have a question for Mr Baudet. I just need to get rid of an image first. I had the picture in my head that Mr Baudet was pushed a lot off the swing in kindergarten by someone who later became a climatologist. That image rose with me for a moment. I would also like to add my voice to Mr Klaver. As far as I am concerned, Mr Baudet's calculations are less robust than all those reports from all those thousands of scientists. But what matters to me is his probability. In the case of water safety we use a risk of 0.0001% on a flood. Does this mean that Mr Baudet considers the investments in our water barrier system too expensive and unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u188	No. I think that's a good probability calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u189	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u190	That has nothing to do with this subject either, but okay. It begins by noting that this whole energy transition is based, first of all, on a highly dubious idea about climate change. That sea level rise is actually a kind of secularized Christian story of the ark of Noah and the sea level that comes to punish us for our sins, and so on. There's a completely different mechanism behind that, which makes all these people so believe in it. There are also a lot of perfide lobbies in it. That's what we see all the time. There is just a lot of money being made in the windmill industry, in the solar industry, by outsmarted politicians like Ed Nijpels, and so on. So that's the second thing that goes with it. Thirdly: if you believe all this then it is absurd that the Netherlands should spend up to 1,000 billion on a climate change of 0.00007°C. The last point I might like to make is this. I hear people asking me over and over again: where are we supposed to get our innovative power from? What are we supposed to do if there is some sort of sea-level rise if climate change, whether caused by CO or not, continues? We can very well invest in better education. We can invest very well in adaptation, should problems arise. We can also very well explore the possibilities of actually doing something about the real pollution of the environment. Plastic soup, restoration of the rainforest, banishing malaria from the world and you name it all: there is room for that when we step away from this madness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u191	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll see if the minister needs a suspension. Two minutes? A brief suspension? Then I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u192	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u193	Mr President, thank you. I thought that's how I organized it. We have the quiet agreement that we have some kind of recipe for that; that helps everyone. I would like to say a few words very briefly in the direction of the tables, because some of the speakers did not get to that. I wanted to say something about the acceptance, because it is really crucial. I would like to broaden that understanding. Then I come to things about affordability, the energy note and the very strong numbers that have gone over the table. Something must be said about the labour market. Then I come to Urgenda, and then I have a lot of questions that really do not fit into any of these subjects. I'm just going through it, passing by the various speakers in order. That's how I was gonna do it. I should like to say that I am more impressed by the results of the tables than Mr Moorlag. I'd like to tell him that. We have a polder that sometimes does things for years. In three months' time, people who do not all have an interest in this and all of them see that not all their wishes are met, put together something that is quite concrete at the level of technical measures and in which there are all kinds of far-reaching things. I think that's pretty impressive. I don't think there are many countries where you could put that together like that. That's what I really want to say. Mr Futselaar says that poldering does not work. It is precisely his party that knows that poldering has worked very well and that his party really is up to the bends in the polder. There's nothing against that. But now there's a second half. We have spent the first half of the year on what I call technical measures. The first half of these table sessions dealt with the question of what technical measures should be taken to achieve those tonnes at all. That second half is really different. It is about what the various speakers have just missed. It's about the instrumentation. That's less technical. This is in some cases more political, and in some cases also for the participants, let me put it this way, more unpleasant and politically more difficult. In this Chamber we may not care very much whether we are dealing with such techniques or techniques. We're all willing to accept that, but after that, it's gonna be hard. Because in the second half it is about normalizing, subsidising, stimulating, tax incentives and pricing. Then it's about very clear appointments, and agreements are never non-binding. Then it's all about all kinds of bonding. That's what it's about in that second half, and it's not easy. Am I totally in control when that's done? No, I don't, because you don't negotiate on your own. I do it in this case with hundreds of different parties at tables, at sub-tables, at sub-sub-tables, and there are other organisms in the process. We don't really have it in hand, but we did ask to finish it as early as possible, in December. That is where we give direction to the instrumentation. So that means a certain limited shift in this energy tax on top of the coalition agreement. Yeah, we're open to that. A minimum CO price for electricity by 2020? We're just gonna hold on to that. Yes, we are still looking at the price path, because we do not want a security of supply problem to arise, but we are sticking to 2020. Yeah, we standardize commercial and social real estate. Yes, the industry will have to live with some kind of CO levy like a stick behind the door. Areas designated for wind at sea, electric transport must maintain this regime until 2025. We also said that we opened up the SDE to industry in the coalition agreement, but not unlimited. We've put a limit on that. That's not funny, but we did. We also have a few open questions. That's fair, too. What does the tax package for the car domain actually look like? Yeah, that's a good question. Actually, it wasn't there yet. I'll come back to the financing package. I've been here once, I'm going to call it "a fan," or part of the fan club building-related funding. It hasn't worked yet. I'll come back later to why not, and what we're going to do about it, but there's got to be something to do with that. Without it, there's no agreement. As efficient as it is, if we can't show the homeowners that it can be paid and financed, we're just in our shirt, or worse. There are also clear questions about the labour market. So, no, we don't know everything for sure yet, but we have indicated a direction. How's it going now? This moment is of course important, because we said that after the first round we would talk to the Chamber about technical measures. That is why this is an important moment. The commitment is, of course, that the follow-up work, for which a request has been made at the tables, will be completed as early as possible in December. In the end, we also need a pass-through. Maybe there'll be additions. But as early as possible in December, at least there must be a package that will allow us to enter the accounts. In between I am sometimes spooked by all kinds of parties.They really are more than two people who occasionally let themselves know that they are thinking about getting out. What I appreciate about the parties involved is this. Look, every party that participates, there are hundreds of people who have a particularly good reason not to participate. 'Cause you commit to business if you're in. You never bring in anything you want. There are all kinds of other parties that are also cooperating. And the government wants to get those tons, and that's acidic. And if you're in, you're gonna have to explain the downsides to your people. That's uncomfortable. Many parties benefit from getting out, but so far the Dutch tradition of participating still works. It's the polder I'd like to give you a feather here anyway. Yeah, that's where I've moved in the past few years, I'd like to say. So there are all kinds of parties that also participate, because that is the Dutch tradition. So I would just like to praise all those parties for the fact that, although they really aren't getting everything and are sometimes very unhappy, they are still participating, because we need everyone. Such a climate agreement is hard work, and there are many shoulders under it. Mr. Chairman. That's what it's about. That's what it's about. That makes sense, because my point is that technically it is not really an art to get those tons. Really, achieving that climate agreement and those goals is really not difficult. Put two engineers and an economist together and you'll be out in a week. That's not hard at all. But what is difficult is to get the tons and keep the Dutch on board, and to make sure that everyone participates and can participate, and that people may not like it all but can participate and participate. That sometimes also means a different pace than you would like and it sometimes means that you have to leave a feather, but the really difficult job is not to get the barrels, but to keep everyone on board. It has to be affordable for that. The support is really going through the wallet. I'll be on that financial piece in a minute. It also means that we need to be very clear. The congregations will have a sacred task in that. They need to tell people what they are expected to do and what they need to do, and match their perspective of action. Furthermore, I think that more and more is going to count that people also just want the Dutch landscape to remain the Dutch landscape. We haven't all done that right in the past. It is becoming increasingly clear that this does affect our prospects. We have not all done that well in the recent past. With Drentse Monden and Oostermoer things did not go well, and I think the lessons are that we should involve local authorities and directly involved much earlier, not only to involve them, but also to simply offer choices, to ensure that choices can be made and not just davert the Empire over them with its powers. So we're gonna have to deal with the deployment of the state coordination scheme differently. We hope that this can be set in motion through energy strategies, but that is not automatic. We're really gonna have to fight for that, because otherwise we're just not gonna make it. A lot has been said about costs, a lot! Look, the euro signs are flying over the table here. It's a little schoolmastery, but I really have to say that costs and investments are consistently mixed up here. Costs are not investments. Yeah, investments can lead to costs, but you can't add them together. There are costs that none of the investments come into play. There are investments that ultimately do not result in net costs. That's a whole different thing. There are also costs that belong to the energy economy anyway and that have nothing to do with the climate at all. We spend a lot of money on energy. Because we use a lot of energy. That's not weird. That costs us a lot of money, but has nothing to do with the transition. We also have annual costs and cumulative costs, but they are consistently used interchangeably. Furthermore, it has become a bit fashionable to confuse social costs with the energy bill, and that is quite different. I am always listening to what Mr Baudet has to say. That's really true. But when he starts counting, he knows how to add investment in one speech to costs, subsidies and higher taxes to get to that 1,000. I'm gonna be a bit of a schoolmaster here, but investments can lead to costs. Costs can be covered by grants and subsidies can be paid out of taxes again. But if you add all that up, you have a lot of double counts. You really can't do this. So, no, those aren't the amounts that we're supposed to scare the public with. I really don't think that's useful. Let me give you a concrete example. Mr Baudet mentions a very high figure that should be in the built environment. Yeah, that could be a high number. If you invest in a house, you get a lower energy bill. The net costs are spread over perhaps 30 or 50 years of that investment. The income is the annual lower energy bill. You have to salt it with each other and then you can possibly get better or worse on it. In the latter case, we are talking about social costs. But you can't take this investment as a cost. That's not neat. A wind farm could cost 2 billion. And if we didn't, we'd have to buy another energy system. Moreover, these additional costs of that wind farm are also in the long term zero compared to other energy sources. The extra cost of the transition can therefore quickly go to zero in the case of, for example, wind at sea. Then the costs are not a very high amount, but zero. For the time being, I'm sticking to the institute we have for that. That's the Planning Office for the Environment. They're doing the math. They also shop at the CPB. These are bodies that we can rely on, and they amount to just over 3 billion a year for 2030, so rising from now to that amount. So in the next few years it will be even lower and then it will rise to that figure in 2030. Is that a high number? It's about a twentieth of what we spend on care. The cost increase in care alone during this cabinet period, so what we are going to spend on care every year during this cabinet period is not cumulative, but twice that amount annually. I have not heard Mr Baudet complain that we are spending so much extra on care. I didn't hear him say that it creates care poverty. And I didn't hear him say that's ridiculous. So let's see the numbers in perspective, because we have the task not only to debate each other fiercely, but also not to frighten the Dutch. By the way, I am very happy to listen to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u194	In itself, it is true that an investment can be something other than a cost you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u195	Is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u196	But that depends on your definition of the word "investment." When I sit at a roulette table and say, "I invest every round again in the number 16," eventually, if you make a probability calculation, the number 16 will come out. "I see it as an investment," a gambling addict could say very well. And you are behaving in this debate. I'm sorry to have to say it, because I normally also like to listen to you as a gambling addict. You invest blindly in numbers and in projects, while there is no way that you can calculate it, as has been shown by several reports, from the CPB, for example, how much it will cost precisely, also because there are no counter-scenarios. Let's say that's something the Planning Office for the Environment recognizes that we wouldn't do any of this. How much would the Netherlands save? I agree with you. Only if you turn these two things against each other can you make the distinction between what is or is not accounted for as an investment. But since there is no other reference scenario,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u197	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u198	... recognizes the Plan Bureau for the Environment this is very important that those 2 or 3 billion extra are not the whole cost. For example, the cost of the energy agreement is already not included and it is already up to 100 billion. So, as much as I like to listen to Mr Wiebes, I would like to give him the facts here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u199	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u200	First of all, I have to be the next in the series to compliment Mr Baudet on becoming a real politician, because politicians sometimes have an unpleasant tendency to do so, and I would also advise him against selling costs as investments. There have been many rulers in the past who have said: I am now investing in... No, they just spent money. Let us not do that. Costs and investments are something else. These investments are the amounts that Mr Baudet sometimes talks about. By the way, he doesn't touch the 1,000. He doesn't look at any of that. But those costs are always relative to not doing so. So it's just like he says. The reference case is that you don't decide to do this climate exercise. Well, compared to that situation, the additional social costs have been calculated by the PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u201	That's not true. That reference scenario already contains a lot of measures, including those of the Energy Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u202	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u203	So you can't say that the reference scenario is the scenario in which we do nothing about CO reduction or energy transition. That's just not true. There's a lot going on already. There are already a lot of taxes on fossil. There are already a lot of excise duties on fossil. There are already a lot of subsidies for windmills, for sun, and so on, and so on. So what you're saying is just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u204	Subsidies and taxes are not social costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u205	Of course, these are social costs in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u206	No, they're not. It can only be...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u207	Well, it is if you believe it's gonna work out in 50 years or something. Then you can write it off as an investment. But that's completely speculative. That's as speculative as saying: I'm going to put my money back on number 16 at the roulette table. And that's what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u208	I believe, says Mr Baudet. We just happened to talk about faith in the hallway. A very short conversation. But no, social costs are confused by Mr Baudet. And with that I just want to say to the Dutchman who may be afraid of this: no, it is not about these kinds of amounts; this is to be paid. It's not all fun and you might have preferred to do other things with it, but we can do this. This is just payable. We must make the cost, as it is called, flatten it, manageable, as we finance so many things in this society that are much more expensive than this extra task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u209	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u210	If you do not want to charge subsidies as social costs, who will pay them? Surely the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u211	No, Mr. Chairman, we need a manual from the CPB on what social costs are. I recommend Mr Baudet. I'd like to spend a cup of coffee on that, too, but we're not going to continue with this class here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u212	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u213	Moreover, I would like to be strict not only with Mr Baudet, but also with some in this Chamber and myself, because there is a notion I must make clear. Because we all attach great importance to affordability. This includes the fact that we should all also strive for the lowest costs, because all these other costs must eventually be borne by us in one way or another. And that's what discipline is all about. In some areas, it requires things that are not tough, not even fun or even politically not always attractive. First of all, it requires the right timing. I know Mr Klaver; he wants everything and he wants it now. That's what he's standing for. I like that, too. A certain impatience I share with him. But immersed in reality, I have to say that if we always want everything to be faster and everything always now, we don't fit in with the natural renovation moments in the built environment, we don't have the right investment moments in the industry, we close coal power stations immediately if they're still very expensive and far from being written off and we're going to deal with complicated processes even before there's innovation. Sometimes it's useful to put things down in time. That's disappointing, but it's wise if you're serious about cost control. Furthermore, it is also wise that you do not throw away any options. There are a lot of unattractive energy sources in the energy world. I don't really know any attractive ones. Even wind at sea is not so popular with us in this room anymore. We hate nuclear energy and coal, and indeed gas, certainly low-caloric gas. We could hate geothermals. We can hate winds on land, but soon we can also hate winds at sea and sun on land. However, we should not all throw away the options. This is also a PBL calculation. For example, if we decided to use at least or no biomass, we would have an additional 5 billion per year in 2050. For example, if we decided not to do CCS or not to do CCS, we would be 16 billion more expensive per year, not cumulatively, in 2050. If, for example, we decided to ban both biomass and CCS, the amounts would be high, because that would be 90 billion a year. So we have to be disciplined. Energy options are not very attractive and we suffer from them, but we can't rule them out, because we have to keep it affordable and none of them is really fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u214	Mr Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u215	Mind if I finish this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u216	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u217	What is equally important and not always fun and not always politically attractive, not even for me, is guarding the playing field. It's not very attractive, but it has to be. If we eventually drive production away, it will not help the climate, because it will continue in more productive factories across the border, but it will affect our ability to pay for all of this. So there are a lot of unpleasant things we have to do to keep this affordable. This should also come back occasionally in the debate. It's annoying, but we're here to make annoying choices. That's our profession, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u218	I'll start with a personal fact. I heard Mr Wiebes say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u219	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u220	I heard the minister named Wiebes say that "we" here hate gas and nuclear energy. Well, that certainly doesn't refer to my party and all the group members of my party. We strongly support both nuclear energy and the continued use of gas. That's what I wanted to say. Second. I also heard Mr Wiebes say that if we do not use biomass in large numbers, and if we do not apply CCS, we are going to do so, so we are going to put it under the ground. What's he talking about? What's the cost of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u221	These are the calculations of the Plan Bureau for the Environment about 2050, which are about a different deployment of options. If you leave out options and reduce the choice option, you can reach a more expensive package on average.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u222	So that's in case we follow that idiotic, absurd and abject Paris agreement. Correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u223	All the calculations of the PBL have been done on the basis of Paris, but with different possibilities. One option is considerably more expensive than the other. The cheapest option is relatively affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u224	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u225	So that is within a framework that in itself costs extremely much money. In that you say: one option is slightly cheaper than the other. But in the end, the whole concept of this energy transition remains an extremely expensive cost, which you call an investment but which only pays 0.00007°C less warming. That's an investment of the year zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u226	Mr President, Mr Baudet is turning my words around. I said that it would be a manageable cost if we were to reach Paris by the cheapest route, but it would be hugely more expensive if we were to deviate from the most efficient route. It's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u227	Mr President, it has to be for a while, because this is very important, also for people watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u228	Yeah, everything's important, but I actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u229	This is really important. See, these are two things. Biomass is called sustainable, but in no way leads to CO reduction. No way, zero. Total bullshit: cutting trees and then devoid of them, which costs even more energy than coal and gas. It's much less efficient. So that's one. It is only an administratively sustainable energy source. Secondly, therefore, putting CO under ground is in no way an investment in innovation. That's just hiding something and then saying, "Oh, my, look, we're meeting the goals." This is purely administrative compliance with an agreement that you should never have concluded and that you should not support. The Netherlands must follow the United States and from that Paris agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u230	This could be the unique moment when Mr Baudet can count on the agreement of Mr Klaver, but not on my agreement. Biomass and CCS have been examined objectively. This is not an administrative whole; it is indeed a physical way of preventing CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u231	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u232	I would also like to say to Mr Baudet that hating things does not mean that you cannot be in favour of it. Those are exactly the unpleasant choices. I am in favour of keeping all options open, and at the same time I would like to admit that I still hate most options. Mr. Chairman. I repeat: it is not an art to achieve the climate goals, but to bring everyone along. That's the art. I would like to comment briefly on Mr Kops, who is never tired of tightening up the energy bill. I have to say something seriously about this €150, but first Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u233	It is going to be a bit of a late evening, where the Minister and Mr Baudet have been philosophizing with each other for a long time. That is very interesting, but we are at the start of the second half of the climate agreement. In my opinion, a lot of spokesmen in the debate, but also a lot of participants at the tables, have made it clear in recent weeks that they do need direction from the cabinet in order to reach a final climate agreement in the coming weeks. It is very interesting to keep all the options open and to map them out and see what we can do with those technical measures to save tons of CO, but these tables are asking this Minister very clearly, and this Chamber is also doing so "you must now help choose with all the open options." How is this minister going to do that? Because with this answer, he is not helping those tables to reach a climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u234	There are two levels. For technical options, energy sources, the policy of this cabinet, enshrined in the government agreement, is not to throw away any options. That does not mean that we cannot give direction to tables, because tables must have direction over instrumentation. How are we gonna do that? Is there a norm? Is there a charge? Is there a tax incentive? That is what we need to point to. But we shouldn't throw options off the table, because then it's gonna be an expensive joke. I therefore agree with Mr Jetten that we must give direction. The letter gives direction. Moreover, it has been indicated that the cabinet will play a more active role in the second round than in the first round. We are not so skilled in making up technical measures, but we are much more skilled in inventing ways to implement them. That's government policy, so we'll be more involved in that. That is the clarity we will give.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u235	Mr. Jetten. No? Then I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u236	Just a quick word on the energy bill. It's gonna live its own life over and over again. According to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, the gross increase in the energy bill is on average €108 per year per household. Part of that was already in the basic path, but there is a part that is an increase in the energy tax, which is redirected back through income tax. That's not weird. It is the much expressed desire to tax consumption more heavily and to tax labour less. That's very defensive. It means that more people are coming to work and we are going to use less energy at the same time. The net increase in costs is about €50 per year, if you consider the refund via income tax, of which part is temporary; next year for the last. Let us stick to those amounts, because I do not want to worry the Dutch endlessly at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u237	No, I'm not in the mood for the energy bill to go up so much. I did some checking today and then I really get to €153 increase next year. I'll just read it to you. The tax discount goes down from €308 to €257. So that's plus €51. The ODE, the storage of renewable energy, goes up from €85 to €139 for an average household. That's plus €54. The gas price increases on average annually by €28. The electricity price goes up by €20 on average. Then I get to €153. Let us be clear, such an increase in the ODE, the storage of renewable energy, is intended directly to finance climate hysteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u238	The figures mentioned by Mr Kops are correct, but he leaves out two: the autonomous reduction in consumption and the fact that some of them are redirected back through income tax, which ultimately makes it a much less large increase than it seems in his state. I would also like to touch on one important point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u239	What reduction in consumption? Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u240	The decline in consumption, which has been measured for years and has been included in the statistics, because it has been a fact for years that households are going to use a little less every year, because our appliances are becoming more economical, our homes are being better isolated, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u241	That is in itself a good point from the Minister. Of course it all sounds nice and nice that people have to save energy so that the energy costs can be reduced, but at the same time when the cabinet raises energy taxes hugely, people will of course not get anything out of it. I told you, the energy bill goes up by €153. Let us be honest: people simply cannot save against that. So that's some bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u242	It's just a measured fact. There's not much bullshit about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u243	Mr. Baudet, you've interfered extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u244	About another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u245	The minister just started...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u246	But this is exactly the point the minister just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u247	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u248	The Minister says that you should not mix up budget lines, but he is doing exactly the same thing. All these costs go up, energy costs and all kinds of other costs for households. The Minister will say: yes, but we will compensate for that by lowering the tax on wages a little bit. But you can't cross those two out against each other. It's nice that the payroll tax is going down a little bit. We are also in favour of this. In fact, we want to bring down the payroll tax much more than the VVD wants. You cannot say: this has eliminated the rise in energy prices. No, it's two different data. It's nice for people if they have a little more left over because the economy is getting better, because it can reduce taxes a little bit, but if they have lost that money again to all the increases that the VVD imposes on them through the green madness, then it's no good to people. The Minister is deluding these different budget lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u249	They are two different posts; that is entirely true. That is why I say explicitly that one has been locked back into the other, so that the net effect...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u250	It's not being locked back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u251	Yeah, it'll be locked back. Mr. Chairman. I think it is good to start answering the questions about the CO levy. Mr Klaver mentioned a national CO tax. He didn't ask a question about it, but he looked at me in the eye. Mr Van Raan did not ask me a question, but he also looked at me questioning. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked me a question. I've been here before as a big fan of CO taxation. It is, I believe, the most effective, the most obvious, the most efficient way of achieving sustainability. I admit that it is also a liberal means; there is nothing wrong with that. If we could do it all this way, that would be excellent. I also hope that we will be able to do so in the long term. The ETS system has been working up a bit out of its grave. Today we measure somewhere between €16 and €17 as a price, but that is not high enough. Of course, we also have a history of pricing in the Netherlands. If you look at car taxes alone or only at excise duties, you can see that they represent between €300 and €400 per tonne of CO. It's an implicit CO tax, but we've only mentioned him as excise duty. But we've always believed in charges to counteract negative effects. We have thus become the number 3 in environmental taxes in the EU. So we have the third most in Europe as a percentage of our economy or tax revenue; that is a good question. I see a colleague pointing out that this is a tax revenue issue. Thank you. At the OECD we are expected to receive an average of €55 per tonne. That is a high amount of money that consists of all kinds of different levies. But in energy-intensive industries, charges are just even lower. That's not all for nothing. I refuse to join the people who say it's all bullshit. If you look at Frontier Economics' report alone, which is about electricity generation, but let's call it an energy-intensive industry, then you can see that you can already get a road leak at €1 per tonne of difference. A road leakage effect contributes negatively to the climate effect. We've done experiments with structural differences in burdens before. Take Aldel. There was a limited difference in electricity prices and Aldel disappeared. My predecessor turned on his head to counter that, but it did not succeed. It doesn't mean we have to give up on this. In fact, I am convinced that pricing is the future. I am convinced that ETS will mean a lot in the future. The fact that the ETS system is now operating and that the excess allowances are being destroyed is to a large extent the Netherlands. On top of that, we have said that I have already stated in the coalition agreement that there must be a minimum CO price for the electricity sector. On top of that, we have said that we expect industry to make proposals for CO pricing. I am sure that will not go as fast as the people at De Nederlandsche Bank are charging us. That is also because we have a slightly less great faith that it will go so smoothly. We can still remember the Aldel issue. What is also mentioned in the debate is that I have forgotten who is CE Delft. Mr. Rooijers invented the VEK, the External Costs Fee. It was Mr Van Raan who brought it in. The VEK is conceptually extremely attractive, because it immediately leaves out all level playing field issues. The VEK is cross-checkable at the border. That's the way. Anyone who thinks about it comes with this. This is Columbus' egg, except Columbus can't carry it out right now. It's extremely complex. It means that of all imported goods, it is not all as easy as a kilowatt hour; there are many more complicated goods and it is necessary to determine what the CO content is. That is not quite feasible at this stage. But no doubt we will look back to now in a few years' time and see that we have done much more with pricing, with many more countries. Our commitment is not only to be a leading group on 55% and to advocate it in Europe, but also to be very explicit about CO pricing. The leading group should also implement these instruments with each other. There are countries that feel that way. Denmark does, and France does. France is doing it for a very obvious reason, but Denmark is already a little less so. There's a discussion with Germany. I'm back there in November to talk about this. If we do this with more countries, it'll be more likely. This must, of course, come about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u252	It is good that the Minister says that this should be done in the end, but I am still concerned about the way in which this is stated in the cabinet response. It is, as it were, left over the market that this CO tax will be introduced. That can be a deterrent for those front runners. When I speak to the leaders of industry, I find that they are keen to have such a CO tax. It may even be national if we cannot regulate it at European level. We'd be helping those frontrunners a lot if we just put a price on them right now. We should say: this is what we're going to do and with this you'll have certainty for the years to come. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u253	Well, let's just say the thinking is open. It explicitly says... There are clearly two things, because the first is the task of some kind of sensible system and the second of course is that it is secretly the same that the cabinet sometimes interferes with it. So we're trying to get a sensible system out of there. I'm not going to anticipate that. I'll do that with a table. You're not doing it unilaterally between me and Mr. Klaver. He understands that, too. I do so with the table and with the frontrunners, but also with the other industries. No, in the end, the political choices are for the Cabinet and for the Chamber and not for industries. But we'll do it with them. Yeah, that's the polder model. But we must come up with a system that works and is credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u254	It is true that this is discussed at the tables, but it is also stated in the cabinet's response that this is the time, including for the Chamber, to interfere in this, to make statements and to give direction. I do not want to make it quite a chat against the clock of half-two, but it is really about the minister and the parties that stand here. In this case it is about the Minister and me, because we are talking about this now. I think it is very important that, as a politician and as a Lower House, we give the Minister that it would be very good if the CO tax were not above the market but clearly indicated towards the tables. That tax is coming! From next year or the year after, this is the price. Then the industry can set itself up and it actually becomes much easier to make choices, including in the follow-up process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u255	Mr President, I have heard Mr Klaver correctly. I'm not gonna negotiate it here. Working on it. His point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u256	I'm glad the Minister just mentioned that compensation for external costs, including Columbus' egg. He also said at the same time that Columbus is not going to enter it, but that is of course because Columbus is dead. So that's not gonna happen. But can the Minister spare me and all of us a motion and also give me time in the second term by...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u257	You seem to have ten motions. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u258	Maybe nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u259	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u260	It's 1:30!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u261	One of these motions asks whether the government is at least prepared to examine whether and how the instrument Compensation External Costs of CE Delft can be introduced. Of course, this can also be done in the form of a commitment by saying that you are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u262	No, this has been reviewed, and this doesn't seem feasible. That's too bad, because it's Columbus' egg. But it is in theory and real Columbus eggs, of course, are also in practice, and this proposal simply does not achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u263	Mr President, at least I have tried to keep it limited. But it didn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u264	But you have one minute and 40 seconds for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u265	But it is not forbidden not to file the tenth motion. Mr President, I still have the issues of the labour market and Urgenda and the questions of the various Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u266	I asked whether the Minister was prepared to see whether the study carried out by De Nederlandsche Bank could be subject to a social cost-benefit analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u267	No, a cost-benefit analysis seems complicated to me. I am focusing on the possibilities of working with some form of CO-based pricing both in the electricity sector and at the industrial table. I am now focusing on this and I am not going to do a cost-benefit analysis of another system, which perhaps we could have in a few years' time. But I'm seriously working on effects in this direction. I hope that Mr Moorlag will at least be somewhat satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u268	It is then a bit to wait and see what goes in that top hat and what eventually comes out. I think that is the very report of the Dutch Bank, which is an authoritative institution and which is described in it, particularly if you make provision for the revenue for those four industries that concern Mrs Yeşilgöz. I think that it is important for a proper political balance here in the Chamber, and we will have to make it once the climate agreement is in place, that the Central Planning Office should look at the social costs and benefits. I don't think that's more than a question of information you could hardly refuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u269	In any case, a different direction has been chosen in the cabinet response. So it's not in that form the cabinet's commitment. I should like to ask whether this social cost-benefit analysis is something that can be simple or that there are so many situations involved, that it may not be worth it now. I'm just going to think about Mr Moorlag's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u270	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u271	Mr. Chairman. An important point is the labour market. I keep saying that we are now seeing a real revival of work in the middle of the labour market. This has not been the case for years, because more than the bottom and more than the top was the middle of the labour market that globalisation felt. There's more work coming up now. That is a luxury problem, but I keep saying: a luxury problem is also a problem. So we have to do a lot of training. I went to an MBO the other day with which we made a green deal, because a lot of installers need to be trained in something like a heat pump. I was able to operate the various heat pumps there. It's a wonderful profession. I'm gonna recommend it to everyone. The labour market and training are therefore very important. We're gonna have to do a lot more on that. Furthermore, there is an ESC opinion on this subject which contains very useful things; no evil words about it. We can embrace most of those things without question. We've got to get on with that. It still has to be given hands and feet; we have to make it concrete. There is one point I am simply hesitating about right now. I recognize that you can be worried if you work in the coal sector now, in storage or in a power plant. Things are coming at you that you haven't chosen yourself, and you don't know exactly what's going to happen. We may have to do things for that. But in the cabinet response it says: let's get that right first. There is no question of precision at the moment. In fact, we don't even see what precise impact the Urgenda ruling will have on the coal sector. So to start throwing a fund now or with any other concrete measure is just early. So I can't embrace that point right now. It does say we're gonna investigate this. It may have a coincidence with Urgenda outcomes. Then at some point we have to pick up the net and say: what are we supposed to do about this? It may also concern not only coal, but also people who work in petrochemicals, in the oil industry, in all kinds of fossil industries where we have to help people change jobs. So I am not sure that it is limited to coal, I am not sure that this analysis is the ultimate analysis and I am not sure that this instrument is the ultimate instrument either. We need to go a little further with that. Something is going to come out of that, and it is then that I ask Mr Moorlag to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u272	I actually want to know if you're done with this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u273	Labour market. I've got a...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u274	Yeah, I see Mr. Moorlag, too. But I was wondering if you were done with the labour market part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u275	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u276	Yeah? Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u277	There may be reasons not to do it or not to do it yet, but I think there are also very good reasons to do it. I think that this whole negotiation process is so complex that you should at some point consider whether you should not start reducing problems. I have just noticed that this is a very sharp step in the direction of the workers' organizations. That's one argument. The second is about acceptance in society. It should not be the case in the future that people are fired, lost their jobs and told on birthdays: yes, that is because of the energy transition. To talk about acceptance in society. I believe that this risk is greatest at the present time in the field of power plants. I am therefore making a strong appeal to the Minister to make a move in that direction. Sometimes it works that way when you negotiate, you have to give away some.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u278	I'd like to go further. Mr Moorlag is well known for his colourful language, but I think that 'a stone in the shoe' is almost euphemism; he will agree with me. I think you might be more worried than fits the term "stone in the shoe." I think there are just people really worried, especially about the places in the coal chain that will disappear first. That's more than just a pebble in the shoe. But I insist that we must take action as soon as we get a look at the problem. They could also play wider than coal alone. There are more fossil fuels that we are going to phase out. There are more industries. You will work at a central heating boiler producer; there are several of them in the Netherlands. So it's wider, I guess. We're gonna have to go wider. I think we should definitely get on with this, but not on this particular thing at the moment. Give it a moment, I ask Mr Moorlag. After that, I will be very happy to discuss with him what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u279	Perhaps the Minister could take one more step here. I agree with him that it is rather strange to set up funds for this before anything is closed or changed. So I get that this isn't exactly the time. But the Minister also understands the concerns of, for example, the trade union movement on this point. So perhaps the Minister could say a little more clearly that when we close down coal plants and there is a huge impact on the central heating industry and petrochemicals, the government will also be there to ensure that the people who work there or are accompanied to other jobs do not have to worry financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u280	I find that complicated, because I actually know too little about it. Mr Koolmees is full of ideas about this. I just don't feel like I'm really capable of giving a sensible answer to that. Otherwise, I'm gonna be rattling and I shouldn't. I know we're serious about this, he is, too. We all know that there is going to be a change that means a lot to a lot of people. But not just that. It's not just that the people who work there can be worried. We're all gonna need these people, too, so we're gonna have a problem on the demand side too. So we have to do something with that. But I'm not in a position to give a more precise answer to that right now. I don't have it in the house, that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u281	I can imagine, although I hardly ever believe it when this minister says 'I don't know anything about that'. Experience teaches that he is about a lot of things...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u282	Test me. There's a lot of things I don't know about. I would ask Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u283	If we debate again in an hour, I'm gonna test it. I think there are real concerns about this with people at the table, with the different organizations at the tables. For example, the question of whether you are going to talk is important to them. The Minister himself has already spoken about this. So I'm looking for a way to give a little more certainty that at the end of the journey, if you've given away everything during the negotiations and all kinds of coal plants have been closed and the whole country turns green, it's not just where the future of those workers is concerned. I'm looking for a harder commitment from this minister, to make it clear: you're not alone, I'm fighting for that employee as hard as I am now fighting for that green transition, and you can be sure we're there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u284	The best way to make sure you don't end up alone is to keep up, I guess. It is not now the stage to give commitments to all kinds of organisations. You would be surprised if I had made all kinds of promises to VNO in between, without a complete package. We don't. There's a deal when there's a deal. So far, we've been working on all aspects. I can't make it any simpler. I can make a turn here and make a commitment in between which I do not know what that should be when I cannot commit to other parties. But that doesn't work either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u285	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u286	Let's map it for a while and then know that we have to do something sensible with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u287	I didn't necessarily ask for a huge commitment, because I understand that that cannot be done at this stage. I asked the Minister to offer comfort, I would almost say, to these organizations that they will not be alone. Because I understand the fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u288	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u289	I get that you feel like it's a lonely battle. It would be good if the Minister said: you are not alone at that time. That is not some very wild undertaking that costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u290	I think the message is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u291	But I would like to see a minister who is a little more generous at this point. I think that's helpful for the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u292	We all want someone not to be alone. Sometimes I'd like to do that myself...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u293	Do you want to talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u294	But I am unable to find the code language for Mr Klaver to make a commitment that gives him that comfort or the people who matter get that comfort. The comfort that I can give is that we are seriously talking about this subject and that we know there is something to do with it. We have a huge educational task and a huge job from work to work. What additional instruments or other practices or other approaches are included, I simply have no idea at the moment. I therefore think it is dangerous, in the absence of Mr Koolmees, to make promises about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u295	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u296	Yes. I shall now turn to the questions of the various Members that I have not had. Mr Klaver asked about 55% and I think Mr Jetten also asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u297	You were gonna talk about the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u298	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u299	I have on my list that you would say something about the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u300	Oh, that's absolutely true. Look, that's a piece of shuffle under the table. No, that's totally true. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. How do we prepare ourselves for this, requested by Mr Jetten and Mrs Dik-Faber? We are now working with an outdated estimate. According to that estimate, the target is within range. We know by now that we will largely, by far, achieve the energy agreement, but not quite in time. I did double-negotiate the piece we're late for, but it's too late. We must therefore take serious account of the fact that the measures currently in the portfolio are still insufficient. We don't know that for sure, but we have to take that seriously. That was already the case, because even before this verdict we knew it had to be carried out. So that situation hasn't changed. We were just working and working on additional packages of measures. The next pass-through is early '19. If that is not enough, then we simply need to be ready for action. I'm working on that. It is no secret that measures in the coal-fired power stations are also in the picture there. That's no secret, so that's what we do. I am not going to elaborate on what comes out of it, because then I am also doing the work of all kinds of colleagues. We're looking wide. That's what we're doing now. We're doing it actively. As soon as a new estimate comes out, we will have to agree to that, because there is a verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u301	It is very good that the Minister says 'there is a verdict, so we must act', for example, on those coal power stations. That's not a secret, is it? How does the Minister see that they can be closed? Is he thinking of bringing forward the law the cabinet is already working on? Is he thinking of buying out? There are several options. Can the Minister take us with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u302	No. A, I'm still working on it and b would be very clumsy to do that kind of negotiation here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u303	I don't think that's in his negotiations. If you say "we're going to bring forward that law," there's no negotiation at all. If you indicate "we are thinking of buying out the oldest power stations," then you are not in a negotiation; then you indicate what you want to do. It is a kind of clarity: what instrument do you ultimately choose to shut down those coal plants? I understand that all kinds of options need to be mapped out, but we do know that they need to be closed. I am now looking for a little more clarity, because this is the time when we can debate this statement together. That's why I'm asking for it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u304	I have said that the coal power plant closures are in the picture as one of the options. Mr Klaver already knows that. I'm gonna leave that on his tab. I'll come up with the measures as soon as we come up with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u305	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u306	Of course, the 55% lead two lives. Firstly, we need to warm up our European friends, all 28 of them, to this idea. That's why we work in coalitions. Foreign Affairs has made a whole plan for this, so that about every ruler with foreign contacts immediately appeals to his colleagues. We have also asked the tables all for an additional task. That is not so hard to quantify per table, because a 55% target could lead to a slightly different distribution. We have simply asked every table to indicate an additional number of measures if the final task is to be increased. We didn't exactly divide that into tables. Mr Klaver asks: what if there is no agreement; does the cabinet then take responsibility? I have already indicated that we are in favour of something happening in the end. I do not really expect it, but if it does not reach an agreement in any way, of course we have written down that we have to achieve the goals, because the goals are ahead of us. I mean, the target stands. The way in which is, I am sure, an agreement. But if that doesn't work, then we have to look for other ways, because we've just set a goal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u307	In my contribution in the first period I asked which countries are already on board with the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u308	That's a good question. I'll get to that later. Maybe I'll come to that now. Yes. Sweden, Spain, France, Portugal, Luxembourg, Finland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u309	They are already at that 55% target, along with the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u310	They are prepared to make efforts to raise the targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u311	What about certain percentages or more than 40%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u312	Not all of them are bound to be 55%, but these are the countries we find on our side in the effort to increase EU ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u313	When does the Minister expect more clarity on the percentages for these countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u314	Well, I can't determine that for those countries. We are talking to these countries. We will, of course, have preparations for COP 24 shortly. In the end, the decisions are taken at COP 26. Between now and then we need to increase our European NDC. The IPCC report has, of course, made this more urgent. That's where we're at. But if I have to predict for each of these countries when they're going to embrace what percentage, then I'm overasked. Work is under way under a concerted action by the Foreign Office. The lobby is in full swing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u315	The 55% and the tables and how they work on them; I understand that it is difficult to get there. Is the Minister prepared to give it a little tighter at the different tables?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u316	I don't know if I'd make the right allocation. Some tables have done even less than they could possibly do. That's where they were asked to deliver more. But a precise allocation would also require a different calculation of PBL. For it may be that the cost-effective options will lie with other tables, in a relative sense. I don't think we've programmed that with that precision now, but as soon as we need it, we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u317	I think that is very important, because I think that is the step that is needed. That 49% is fairly precisely allocated to the different tables and that helps because you know what the task is. Those tables are looking at each other right now. "You pick that up. Or you can pick it up." I think that politics could be a little more steered by what the different percentages per table should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u318	Let me come back in second place to how useful that is. Playin' that little ball to each other, I don't see too much. It is true that some tables have indicated that they still have some work to do. Then the charter. Yeah, I found the motion. It's dated November 26, 2015. Yes, it's about the disputes between investors and states in the field of energy. Can I put it that way? We are committed to revision. The Secretariat of the Energy Charter Treaty is currently preparing this renegotiation. It starts in 2019. We want to give it the following form. We will be advocating the inclusion of a provision which guarantees the right of governments to regulate to serve the public interest. So that would be slightly wider than just climate. By the way, no claim has ever been made against the Netherlands under the Energy Charter Treaty. Anyway, safeguarding the public interest is one of the efforts of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u319	Mr. Klaver, until what time do you intend to continue tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u320	I see how fit the chairman is, so as far as I am concerned unlimited! I am very pleased with the commitment towards 2019 and the renegotiation. I also asked a supplementary question. How is the legal risk currently assessed, for example when it comes to closing coal plants? We know that there were claims in Germany when this treaty was signed at the Energiewende nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u321	I can't answer that question. However, we have noted that the Treaty has no impact on the reduction of gas extraction in Groningen. That's been tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u322	Is the Minister still willing to see what this in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u323	We put this question on the second-term list. We've got plenty of time anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u324	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u325	Mr. Chairman. I am going to see Mr Jetten and I am going to try to make some speed, provided that I am allowed to do so. Mr Jetten asks a little bit about the familiar road, but these are useful questions: how do we steer CO, CCS and biomass storage? I think he knows the answer. I think if he stood here and I sat there, we'd get the same answer, but I'm gonna give it anyway. We clearly see CCS as an interim solution. We do not see this as something that should be done in conjunction with coal generation. It's an industrial solution in the interbellum. In the end, other solutions will emerge in industry. We know from biomass that it may eventually be suitable for shipping and aviation. We also know that for the supply of raw materials, the C's, I will say, and in some high temperature applications could be useful, and that it should therefore be limited to that. We do know that there are other applications for which there is no alternative in the meantime, while biomass is not yet needed in other applications. In the meantime, there may be other applications. I can serve Mrs Dik-Faber in advance, but I will come back to it in a moment: for example, one of them is that we can make the non-controllable power more sustainable to a large extent, but the adjustable power is not so easy. If you want the adjustable power to be sustainable, there are few solutions in the medium term other than biomass. That's not forever. That's mid-term. This is necessary if you want to make adjustable power more sustainable than if it could be in a different way. At some point we have more demand cut-off, more buffering and all the things we can come up with, but in the medium term you may need this. So you can't completely rule this out, but we know that we'll never come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u326	I asked a little about the familiar road, but I also got the familiar answer. In my view, this does not once again give us the clarity that these tables now require, because if you add up how many biomass solutions all these tables see, then everyone can conclude that so much biomass is simply not there. The question before us now is, therefore, how, in the coming weeks, we will have to prioritise these tables, which we must also apply in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u327	That's right. We have clearly announced a follow-up study for this. That's not quite easy. There are too many claims on biomass. That's right. It may be that we still have to adjust to that. We certainly have to make choices in that, but that is described in the piece as something that really needs to be looked at. 'Cause what do you give priority to in that interbellum? It is true that that clarity needs to be established. It is also true that there is not yet, but it is not forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u328	This is a very good commitment, because the parties at those tables are struggling with the fact that they cannot yet make a total package, because they are not sure if they can add that biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u329	What is going on here is that we cannot be witches, but the conviction that this needs to be clarified is fully shared by the cabinet with Mr Jetten. Then he asked what we would think about doing CO prices in industry across the chain. That's an interesting idea. I would have put forward this idea earlier, but we should be aware that we now have a national goal. On the question of whether that is happy or not, I have spoken out in the past, but I am not going to do so now. In the end, you have to make sure that the incentives fit the goal. We have now simply opted for a national goal, even if it is full with regard to road leakage effects. We have also written that this should not lead to leakage effects and all those things more, but it is useful to choose an incentive that fits the purpose. Maybe we should have chosen a different goal. Then there could have been another incentive. However, this may not be entirely in line with the EU's censuses. That would have been an obstacle. I think we need to be careful right now to do this in many different ways. I think that this is the choice: we want to map these effects and those other scopes, but I think that at this stage it is a long way to send them directly via CO2 pricing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u330	One of the other problems between the tables is who gets to get blamed. Suppose you have a beautiful innovation and you might do a huge saving, can you do it as a company, or is it electricity, for example? These are, of course, the issues that we all get back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u331	Yeah, they're showing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u332	Of course, that's important when you look at it all over the chain. If something like this is good for all of us, I hope that the Minister will speed it up and that we will not get stuck in the question of who exactly we are going to charge it to. I hope that a clever solution will be found. If there are steps to be taken, of course we have to take them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u333	This is particularly true at the industrial table, where companies supply raw materials to each other, of course, but where another raw material sometimes saves for another and not here. Sometimes it's just customization to deal with. I cannot give a general answer to that. We all know it's playing. It is also regularly discussed between members of that table, who deliver to each other. There's got to be a knot somewhere at some point. I don't have a general answer to that, but it's playing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u334	I'm glad the Minister wants to handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u335	How far along are you with the response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u336	I'm trying to make a lot of haste, but it's not slippery so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u337	Well, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u338	I'll do my best. Mr Futselaar asks whether I can believe that there will be a climate agreement without a clear mandate from the cabinet. No, I don't believe that. I also believe that the cabinet is clearly involved in this. Not everything is already known. Some things we still have to figure out. We can't be witches. But in the end, political direction is needed. Actually, we don't disagree. The polluter pays, we assume. But I have already explained to my colleague, Mr Beckerman, that there are limits to that too, where the playing field would clearly lead to leaks that do not serve the climate. But it's still something you're striving for, of course. In the end, we just want to tax the barrels directly. As long as we can't do that, we have to do other things. A CO tax as in Canada; well. I'm just saying I don't know exactly what's going on in Canada. Two tables are being worked on CO pricing methods. In Canada, it's being redirected back to households. Here we have other methods to stimulate households. Apart from those systems, we have something here that allows us to subsidise solar panels on your roof in all kinds of ways. I am not going to start comparing subsidy and tax systems here at night. The things that are being worked on around the world are also what we are working on. I don't know if it's gonna matter that much in the end with Canada. Again, I'm a little overwhelmed in that. Mr Kops asks for the 50 billion a year, suggesting that these are additional costs. They're not. These are the total cost of the energy system. By CE Delft it has been calculated that the total cost of the energy system including all the energy we use is thus the total energy bill of everything we consume all day long in the same order with or without climate policy. The bandwidths are slightly different. The bandwidth for a climate policy system is slightly smaller, but the order size is the same. That's an amount in this order size. So it makes little difference whether it is with or without climate transition. In the long run that is conceivable, but I cannot check the calculations of CE Delft from this table. Mrs Mulder asks how effective the policy for electric vehicles is. Yes, we can be strict about that and yet we can be encouraging. The loss of taxpayers' money, let us just call it subsidy for electric vehicles, is of course high per tonne of avoided emissions, especially if you consider that the electricity used by cars also leads to emissions; let us be honest. Now that we in Europe have eliminated the waterbed effect with these excess effects, that is a real point. So yes, that subsidy is high, but it hasn't been presented as an efficient CO measure either. What we see is that in the long term electrification of the fleet is inevitable. We now have a run-up to that. We have written this down in the coalition agreement, which Mrs Mulder herself endorsed. So that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u339	Of course, Mr Omtzigt will continue this discussion at the place where it should be. However, I am concerned that, if we go to the tables with each other and say that we want to work cost-effectively, it is an important signal that we are not going to over-subsidise and also look at the cost-effectiveness of this. Fortunately, now that the industry is finally getting a little up and running with these electric cars, including in Europe, the moment comes in the picture that you are not going to oversubsidise that endlessly anymore. That is the point I want to make here today. I certainly think it is fair for households to deal with these energy saving kilos, which Pluimers talked about, and to make sure that we take steps in this direction. Then a lot of locals notice it. This is only about the happy few and I just don't think that's fair. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u340	You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u341	Mr Omtzigt and I have a very common past when it comes to subsidies for electric vehicles, which I am not going to go into. But it is in the interest of the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State of IenW to achieve an efficient and no more than necessary stimulation of these cars. That will be worked out in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u342	I hear the Minister say that the electrification of the car park is ultimately inevitable. How is that inevitable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u343	If we want to work fossil-free, the gasoline in the cars will have to make way for another form of energy. It is stored in the form of batteries and is electric.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u344	So it is inevitable as long as there are cabinets that continue to believe in this mystique of fossil-free and so forth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u345	That's exactly right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u346	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u347	Mrs Mulder asked about the broadening of the ISDE. In 2019 that is not yet possible, but that Table Building Environment has been asked to look at it exactly. So this is about packages for private individuals. We can then involve these proposals in the evaluation of the ISDE. Then we may be able to adapt. That will be in 2019. Continuing with the energy counters is obvious. This is something the municipalities themselves now carry; it is in that sense a municipal task. But it is obvious that in some way these municipalities too should play that role. Whether that goes exactly in the form of those counters is something that is a bit up to them. But they are the front office in making the built environment more sustainable. The dwellers will come to them because they are planning the warmth. If it has to be concrete, you have to be with the municipality in the end. An intermediate question came through Mrs Mulder, but was actually from Mr Klaver. Why is the building-related funding not working? Grosso modo appears to be problematic in the implementation of the tax administration in building-related financing. There's no principle behind that. Easier forms have been looked into by regulating deductibility in a different way, not in the mortgage way. That too proved not to be feasible. But let us put it this way: somehow there must be a competitive and appropriate form of financing for households. It has to be. So if it can't be done this way, then it has to be done in another way. If you can't do it that other way, we'll have to go back to another. We're gonna keep digging until this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u348	Mr. Klaver, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u349	Very good. I could not tell from the reaction whether it was unwillingness, so a political choice not to do it, or whether it was in the execution. I understand from this that the government will do everything in its power to ensure that it can also calculate the entire business case of building-related financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u350	Unwill? I have a burning ambition to put this right, and I am meddling with it, including my colleagues. Yes. If this isn't okay, it's not okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u351	Then it's clear, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u352	Yes. Clear, and keep meddling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u353	Oh, yeah. Mrs Mulder is also asking for the promotion of both green gas and hydrogen. That's what they're talking about at the tables. There will be some kind of road map for hydrogen, but that is also in reason for green gas. Both can have a role, one a bit more sustainable than the other. There may also be other time-limits, but there will be roadmaps for both. She then asked how the expansion of the SDE could help to promote the sustainability of industry in conjunction with the tailor-made arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u354	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u355	I would suggest that you finish all of Mrs Mulder's questions now, Minister. Or was that the last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u356	I'm working on Mrs Mulder's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u357	Yeah, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u358	There's gonna be a lot more. Mrs. Mulder says...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u359	I would suggest that the Minister should answer a few questions, Mrs Mulder. Otherwise, there will be an interruption after every sentence. That doesn't just apply to you, by the way. I would suggest that the Minister should answer all of Mrs Mulder's questions. Then you will have the floor, Mrs Mulder. I'm really gonna do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u360	But a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u361	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And from now on, this applies to everyone. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u362	Mr President, I will answer the large number of questions that Mrs Mulder has fired in sturdy staccato. She is the machine gun among the members; I always have trouble keeping up with her when I want to write down her questions. How does the widening of the SDE and its incentive actually go along with the tailor-made arrangements? It's a perfect match. We're trying to narrow down the uneconomic peaks with the SDE. Yes, we have, of course, set limits to that. That is not going to go unbridled, but there will be a pot available for that. And these tailor-made agreements mean that you can keep parties, including individual parties and also the twelve large parties, to the result, so the projects they have to carry out, with or without that SDE. I don't think we'd get far enough with subsidy ring alone. Then there is the question of whether we would be prepared to seek advice from the European Commission and the national attorney on whether the sale of non-emission-free cars should be prohibited by 2030. That's done. That is very obvious. Can you forbid anything? That is not possible, and this must be stimulated in a different way. Mrs Mulder also expressed concerns about the possible effects of reopening the gas plant in Maasbracht. How does that work on our CO balance? Well, wrong. Helping your neighbors can cost you dearly. I'll say they're still neighbors. They're good neighbors, too, but it doesn't help us, no. This is working against us. Sometimes you have to do things that work against you. Then Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u363	Yes, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u364	I have two questions, of which the first is in the field of green gas. To what extent could EBN also play a role for the Minister? The other question concerns the ban on non-emission-free cars. Would the Minister care to see if he could make this possible with a leading group in Europe? It can't be right now, but that doesn't mean we won't be able to. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u365	The first one, the EBN question, gets a spot in the roadmap. That's where we have to weigh it up. I am not going to answer that question, because I will wait until the road map is completed. The investigation that Mrs Mulder is now asking for is one of the intentions. That's what's in the appendix to the letter as something that's going to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u366	When does the Minister expect the Roadmap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u367	That's a good question. We are going to try to find an answer to that in the second term. Mr Van Raan has no complimentary words for the polder. I have answered further questions from him in the general argument, I think. Mr Stoffer asks me to sit down at tables myself. All directors responsible for a table will be more involved at this stage, because it is more about public instruments. The stress test is about the stability of the electricity system, I understand Mr Stoffer. TenneT runs it. TenneT is the one who does not so much a stress test as a permanent examination of the stability of the system. TenneT determines the security of supply, matching supply and demand. This is how the system is monitored. So that job is invested with TenneT. Mr Stoffer is also asking for nuclear power to be remembered. What has been nuclear policy for years? The Netherlands has never ruled out nuclear energy as part of the energy mix. But there has also been no one for ten years who has applied to place this technique in the Netherlands. That is not to be expected in the coming years either. It's not playing now. I have already made it clear here that I am also hungry for thorium-like developments. We are also free to be curious about that. The problem of waste is so immensely smaller than that of uranium-based nuclear energy that you may be curious about, but that is not a solution that will be equally easy in the next two or three decades. Nor is it something that we are now pursuing further policy. I see that Mr Stoffer wants to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u368	But Mr Van Raan was there before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u369	I would have asked more or less two questions. The first was about the problem of poldering, of the climate agreement that is now under way as a result of poldering. Polderen is an outcome that can, because if there could have been something else, it would have come out. So that's a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u370	Is that a question you asked before?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u371	Yeah, yeah. But it is not necessarily what is needed because of the climate, because the earth does not negotiate. If what's needed and what's possible isn't the same thing, you have a problem. That's what's going on now. That's one. I asked for a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u372	A reflection at 2:10 a.m.!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u373	And then the second. What do you think of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u374	What do I think of the...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u375	...the climate strike of the PINK!-young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u376	About the first question. We've set a goal. We don't have an agreement until it meets the target. That's it. Then there's no difference. We're focusing on a target. We're gonna keep going until we get a visual on the target. So if we don't make it to the target, it's not a good deal. That's the observation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u377	Short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u378	That is not the case at the moment. That is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u379	No, we're halfway there. I'm not saying we've all got it together, but we're not gonna stop until the goal is achieved. The second question was what I think of the climate strike. I was once approached by a group of children before that who told me that they were stopping. They gave me a piece. At that time I had to observe that the piece was already one and a half years old, but also that there were phrases in it that were almost literally in the coalition agreement. I have spoken to them rebukingly and said: if this generation of school is to cease and therefore not adequately trained, we are going to really fail in the transition. 'Cause we're gonna need these people to do it all later. So I actually said to school! Yeah, that was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u380	We've seen that. Let me make a serious remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u381	Yeah, this was a serious comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u382	Yeah, but it doesn't look like that, because is it really true that these kids are gonna stop because we're actually you, our policies, your policies...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u383	Stick to the subject: climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u384	...haven't done enough? That's why they're on strike.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u385	Yes, but the piece that was handed over to me was about in that form included in the coalition agreement. We're working on it now, and they have to work on it too. Kids need to go to school. It's really not a joke; it's a serious remark. I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u386	All right, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u387	I'm going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u388	Mr. Stoffer. You weren't finished with all the answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u389	Oh, Mr. Stoffer. I was not finished with Mr Stoffer's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u390	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u391	Then I suggest that the questions be answered first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u392	Flight tax. That's what he's been asking about. Was that the nature of the interruption? The government agreement is also clear about the flight tax. We are committed to regulating aviation taxes at European level. In the case of kerosene alone, there are serious doubts. In addition, there is a review of whether charges on noisy and particularly polluting aircraft are possible and if both do not produce any results, there will be a flight or flight ticket tax. I don't have any clarity about the exact shape yet. All these effects have been investigated. The Secretary of State for Finance informed the Chamber in June, and it will be decided this autumn. So at the end of the year we will know that and then a legislative proposal will be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u393	I think that was all my questions. I've been waiting for the end of the answer. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, you have said that I am not ruling anything out, but at the moment there are no initiatives. It doesn't have to be me either. When it comes, you don't rule it out. I think that's very important. Then there is my question about the stress test. Well, that's good. It's set up somewhere else. There's a concern there. I still feel like we need to get there with wind and sun. Well, that's not gonna get us there. I think you agree. I'd like to see the results of that stress test. Could you tell me that what is invested elsewhere is being communicated to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u394	Well, that's not a stress test, as I said, but the regular work of TenneT. I need to see if TenneT's judgment is available in any convenient way. There's no such thing as "the stress test," it's just the regular work of TenneT they do all day. In the second term, I will see if there is a document that is sufficiently accessible and clear for the Chamber to understand how this work is about to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u395	I like that commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u396	I'm gonna take a look at that, and if it's not there, we're gonna have to think about it further. I hope that Mrs Dik-Faber has expressed my beliefs about building-related funding and my beliefs about biomass. Explainable: only intermediate. This may be necessary for electricity generation in the interim if you want to make it more sustainable, but that is only about switching power. There, too, other things are being looked at. In the long term, it will have no role in electricity production.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u397	Those are the Minister's reassuring words. At the same time, we also have the gas plants for the switchable power...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u398	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u399	...I'd just like to point out to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u400	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u401	They don't run on the Groningen gas. So I don't think they should get out of the picture too quickly either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u402	Well, this is the first time I've heard Mrs Dik-Faber pleading for the not so quickly decommissioning of the gas plants. No, we still have switchable power, but as far as we want to make it more sustainable in the coming period, biomass may be needed in the interim period. But as long as we still have enough switching power, that wouldn't have to be an issue. Of course, we do not want to subsidise not only the non-switchable but also the switchable power anymore, and we do not want to do that with biomass in the end either. I hope I answered her questions about the labour market and education, as did her Urgenda question. I hope that I have highlighted the various points raised by Mrs Yeşilgöz. I have addressed Mr Moorlag and Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u403	It has all been mentioned, and it is very nice if the Minister wishes to take that with him, but still for a moment about the system approach and that the tables are going to get away at some point. Perhaps this will require a little more guidance from the cabinet and from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u404	Yeah, it seems so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u405	You can have a measure by sector, but is that, if you looked at it together in terms of infrastructure and in terms of supply and demand, the smartest thing you can do? I ask again because we hear sounds that this is not really happening yet. So perhaps the Minister can take a look at how that can be achieved, or perhaps he already has some ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u406	It is true that this system integration should eventually be put right. The molecules flow through the Netherlands in a very different way. Supply and demand are going to be much less regulated. So that's getting more complicated. But that's all part of the question. Industry will have to show that the various exchanges of products are in order. The infrastructure must then be set up. That is such a system integration question, but it really is on the infrastructure side. Part of it lies with TenneT and part with other parties. So I do not think we can speak of one system question, because there are a lot of different subsystems. So it's a little too complicated to speak of one system, as if we have the Netherlands in one computer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u407	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u408	No, Mr. Baudet. I am only giving the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u409	I understand the Minister's remark, but I'm looking for who's in charge, so those tables literally get out of themselves and look at it with each other. We hear that this is not enough and that everyone is still cooking a little in their own sector. I understand that too, because that is where the assignments lie, and that is where things have to be delivered. But where does that come up or how can we stimulate that, so we don't have to do that exercise here? Because I think it's a lot smarter to do it at the tables, where the people who really know about it are sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u410	I'm trying to say that one person responsible for the entire system, some kind of boss of the world, doesn't exist. In the end, they're all sub-systems. For example, there's a green gas system and we have hydrogen. I find it complicated to say that the question of system integration is one question and it is invested here or there. I do think that we should strive to clearly identify at each of these tables who is responsible for the various aspects. Let me see if I can shed more light on this in the final result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u411	Good. Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u412	I've run out of questions. We still have a list for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u413	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. Speaking time in the second term is one minute and twenty seconds. I'm very strict about that. That's what I tell everyone. There are MPs with a lot of motions. If it is really out of time, then these motions should be tabled in another debate. That's what I'm warning you about. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u414	In another universe, in another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u415	There are still plenty of debates. We have 170 debates and budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u416	Mr. Chairman. I'll go right on to reading the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) considers that the price of CO emissions in the Netherlands is currently too low;]] [[Whereas the rapid introduction of a sufficiently high CO price prevents subsequent shock effects;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a comprehensive national CO levy as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[The Government shall, when it appears from the update of the NEV 2017 that the 25% reduction notice is not achieved, request the closure of the oldest coal power plants by 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Raan and Mr Futselaar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-226]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u417	I also heard Mr Klaver say in the first term: if you really want to do something about CO emissions, then you have to do something about the coal plants. That's a really big sip on a drink, I heard him say. I was wondering if he could tell me how much percent...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u418	No, just the motions. This is really the second time: not having the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u419	So he's now tabling a motion to shut down those coal power stations. I was wondering if he could tell me how much of our CO emissions our coal plants are actually responsible for. About what percent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u420	I'm not ready for all the coal plants, but what I'm talking about are the two oldest. If they take that gross, it'll be 7 megatons. If you see what you need to do for replacement business, you're gonna end up at a little more than two megatons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u421	How much of our total CO emissions does he think it's about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u422	Total CO2 emissions in 1990, the reference year, were just over 200, so it's 1%. This is how you count, Mr. Baudet. Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Parliament has recently agreed to a target of 55% reduction in emissions by 2030 and the government in Europe also calls for a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030;]] [[Whereas most climate tables are still difficult to fulfil this objective;]] [[calls on the Government to allocate the additional mission for the 55% target to the various climate tables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-228]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u423	Mr. Chairman. I see I've got 17 seconds left and I'm gonna use ten seconds of that. I would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions raised and certainly hope for a positive opinion on this last motion, because I saw real movement on them during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u424	Thank you. Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u425	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 9 October the Court of Justice confirmed the Urgenda Foundation's commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2020 compared to 1990;]] [[Whereas the State still has to take a decision on whether or not to bring an action against that judgment;]] [[Whereas, if the judgment is to be upheld, rapid action must be taken to comply with the judgment;]] [[Calls on the Government to prepare for the implementation of the sentence in advance, pending the decision whether or not to go into cassation, by identifying how CO emissions can be reduced in the short term and informing the Court in the first quarter of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the discussion on the needs and burdens at the climate tables mainly focuses on the distribution between households and between households and business;]] [[Whereas this discussion should also take into account the division between generations;]] [[believes that we cannot just push forward burdens and burden younger generations with them;]] [[calls on the government to instruct the climate tables to take or not take a measure when considering, including the possible costs and benefits for future generations;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Court of Justice of this at the time when the transfer of PBL and CPB is presented to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-229]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-230]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u426	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I really think that we should go through with these tables over the next few weeks in order to reach a good climate agreement by the end of this year. I am pleased that the Minister has given a little more direction today, including the CO2 tax and the use of biomass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u427	Thank you, I will now go to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to pass the climate agreement through the shredder,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-231]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u429	You're laughing, Mr. Chairman, but it's meant to be bloody serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u430	Thank you, Mr. Kops. Then Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u431	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas additional costs due to climate change should be acceptable to all households, we want to maintain support for this transition;]] [[Whereas PBL and CPB are further investigating the expected burden and income effects for households and businesses;]] [[Whereas it is important to take into account low and middle income households;]] [[calls on the government to clarify the burden and income effects for households in the process of passing on the final proposal and to consider it heavily in the final judgment of the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of a gradual transition to energy-efficient and sustainable private homes that fit in with natural replacement moments;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the SDE+ also to allow the widening of ISDE for private energy savings;]] [[calls for explicit consideration to be given to the possibilities of replacement moments in the instruments for private owners;]] [[In addition, in the further discussions on the Climate Agreement, calls for good design to support independent advice on energy saving, e.g. through energy points, including advice on cheap options such as smart thermostats and the adjustment of CVs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas green gas has potential to contribute more to reducing greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a roadmap to promote innovation, production and use of green gas along the lines of the Hydrogen Roadmap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-232]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-233]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u432	Thank you to the Minister for his reply and for his commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u433	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u434	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current size of the Dutch livestock is not sustainable in a 1.5°C scenario;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures to reduce livestock in an animal-friendly manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current size of Dutch aviation is not sustainable in a 1.5°C scenario;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures to achieve a reduction in aviation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the netting scheme for solar panels at least until 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sustainability frameworks will be established for the use of biomass;]] [[calls on the government to draw up these sustainability frameworks well before the presentation of the final climate agreement and to submit them to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use a CO reduction scenario of at least 55% by 2030 as its target,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Klaver and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-235]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-236]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Klaver, Mr Stoffer and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-237]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-238]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u435	Thank you, Mr President. I've got time left. I'm saving the rest of the motions for another debate, as you advised. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u436	Next week, you'll have the budget. Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u437	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to government agreement, the subsidy for biomass replacement in coal-fired power stations will cease after 2024;]] [[noting that the main features of the climate agreement show that no SDE+ subsidy is needed for electricity generation after 2025;]] [[Considering that the main features of a climate agreement include the use of biomass as a focus for two priority themes, namely heavy road transport and air and shipping where there are insufficient alternatives, and in the longer term as a raw material and products;]] [[Whereas large-scale use of biomass has negative effects, such as loss of biodiversity, deforestation, threat to food production and CO emissions during transport;]] [[points out that subsidies for biomass electricity generation are undesirable given the phasing out of the co-financing grants for coal-fired power plants;]] [[calls on the government to prioritise the use of biomass in sectors where less clean alternatives are available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u438	I would like to make a brief comment to my colleague from the Animal Party. Animal biomass also consists of residues from the food industry. We can't eat them anymore as humans, but you can give them to the pigs. Then we can turn the pork back into a nice pork patch. That sounds like an excellent form of upcycling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u439	Thank you. I call Mrs Yeşilgöz on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u440	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is inevitable that the energy transition will be noticeable for everyone;]] [[Whereas it is important for the acceptance of the energy transition that the energy transition is affordable and manageable for every Dutch citizen;]] [[Whereas cost-effective measures contribute to the affordability of the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to make cost-effectiveness a major factor in the choice of climate agreement measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the climate agreement will lead to measures that will be noticeable for every Dutch person;]] [[Whereas, for the implementation of the Climate Agreement, support for measures under the Climate Agreement is crucial for the implementation of the Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas, in order to increase the level of support for measures, it is important that measures are positive and stimulating rather than penalising;]] [[Whereas it is important for the effectiveness of measures that measures provide an action perspective for the Dutch;]] [[calls on the government to give preference to incentive measures that provide an action perspective for Dutch citizens when choosing measures in the climate agreement that directly affect households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-241]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-242]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u441	No, I can do this! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the measures in the climate agreement are partly aimed at the Dutch industry and the Dutch industry;]] [[noting that it is important for the purpose of achieving the climate agreement that the Dutch industry and the Dutch business community contribute to climate change and take responsibility;]] [[Whereas a level playing field is crucial for the Dutch industry and the Dutch business community;]] [[Whereas, in distorting the international competitiveness of the Netherlands, companies can leave, taking Dutch jobs with them to countries where more greenhouse gases can be emitted;]] [[calls on the Government, in the follow-up to the Climate Agreement, to take explicit account of the level playing field for Dutch companies and the Dutch industry and to examine this in the proposed measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-243]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u442	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the recently presented report of DNB indicates that firm priced CO in products and services is effective in achieving the climate objectives, while limiting harmful economic and income effects;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly involve the report in the implementation of the Climate Agreement, to submit it to a social cost-benefit analysis and to present it to the Chamber with an appreciation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-244]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u443	Mr. Chairman. On this social cost-benefit analysis, I would like to say to Mrs Yeşilgöz that I want to see what it does with the competitive conditions and the impact of road leakage. On 27 September I tabled a motion for the full adoption of the ESC opinion. That motion was held at the time, but I would now like to put that motion to the vote on Tuesday. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. I have spoken exhortationally to the Minister that he had not done enough before the summer. In his reply, the Minister said that I would fail the parties at the climate table. That is by no means the case. They didn't make a commitment and the minister did. I have deep respect for the parties at the climate table!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u444	Thank you. Then that was the second term of office. I do not know whether the Minister can respond directly or whether he needs a short suspension. Five minutes? Ten minutes? Half an hour? 45 minutes? I hear the Minister say "ten minutes." Then I'll suspend the meeting until 2.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u445	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u446	Mr. Chairman. Mr Klaver had asked me about the risks posed by the bill on the ban on the use of coal for electricity generation in relation to the Energy Charter. That risk isn't zero, but we minimize it, and we'll see. The Council of State is reviewing the bill. And yes, there are risks in life, certainly in this area. Mrs Mulder has another answer to the question of when the Green Gas Roadmap is finished. That would be at the end of 2019. Mr Stoffer asked how he could take note of the robustness of TenneT's analyses on the stability of the system. There is an annual analysis of this. It is publicly available on TenneT's website. Then there's the motions. The wide CO price, the motion in part no. 226. I think I have made it clear to Mr Klaver that there are indeed ambitions towards the pricing of CO at at least two of the tables, but I think I have also made it clear that the cabinet is not planning additional CO taxes at this rate and this width. With that, I must advise against this motion. Then, in the debate, it was noticeable that Mr Klaver was quite certain that everything had to be done with coal-fired power stations and that I had it in my mind as an option. That's what he's getting ahead of with the motion in part No. 227, in which he calls for the closure of the oldest coal power plant by 2020. I'll do inventory first. I'm gonna finish it all up. Then I will come forward with measures at the time of the assessment. Yes, there are certainly coal power stations in the picture. It could also be a measure of this kind. But right now I have to discourage the motion, unless Mr Klaver is naturally prepared to hold it. Then we can see it the moment we can see it, too. Then the motion to part No. 228. I had a pretty good ear for that. So we have informed what it would mean to have this calculated. That must be done by PBL. That seems to be a calculation a team is working on for a month, and it's not worth it to me either, because I'm already making such a huge appeal to PBL. So I can't do this. I get the question. I was in for it, too, as I've shown. But this is too labor-intensive to do right now. So it would soon amount to a bit of fuzzy work. Then I would prefer to stick to the question we asked at the tables, making sure, as a cabinet, that there is sufficient upward space indicated by each of the tables. They haven't, and we've talked to them about it. So that process is in full swing. The motion in part No. Two hundred and eighty-eight is something I have to advise against. The motion in part No. 229 is about the preparations, actually along the lines I outlined in the debate. The motion in part No. 229, I'll leave judgment room. Also the motion in part No. 230 belongs to Mr Jetten and deals with the costs for future generations. Yeah, explicitly. This also has to do with that path to 2050, the "no regret" for 2050; not the cheapest option for 2030 but the cheapest option for 2050. Future generations: Judge Room. Then I will be in the motion in part No. 231 asked to pass the climate agreement through the shredder. Unfortunately, that is not possible, because there is no climate agreement yet. If it had been there, we could have thought about it. Or Mr Kops should hold this motion. Then we wait until the climate agreement arrives. Then the motion to part No. Mr Mulder, rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Mulder for her excellent report. It's in line with the government's Juice Appreciation. I'll leave this motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 233 is more detailed. Among other things, it calls on the government to broaden the ISDE. I have to say that I can give this motion judgment Chamber, but I would like to point out that I interpret it in such a way that there must be cause for the broadening of the ISDE in the evaluation. And I don't have that evaluation yet. If I may point out that I expressly base the progress on the evaluation, I shall give the motion in part No. 233 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u447	When does the Minister expect the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u448	Our champion's questioning has another good question. I'm hoping to get the answer to a note from behind. Then Mrs. Mulder will have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u449	Yeah, because if it's three years from now, that's obviously not what I want to achieve with my motion. So that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u450	That's a good point. The motion in part No. 234 is about the Roadmap. That's along the lines of the debate, so judge Chamber. Mr Van Raan asks about the familiar road. I'll take a look at him. I'm gonna need his motion to part number one. 235 and also those in part No. In the case of the United Kingdom, the Commission has decided to grant aid to the steel industry in the form of an aid scheme for the steel industry in the United Kingdom. The Van Raan c.s. motion. in piece No. 237 I must advise against the lines of the debate we have had before. I like to keep the installation of solar panels attractive, but a payback period of seven years is a very good return. If we don't do something, it'll be four years. And all that money is not available for other sustainability measures, because you can only spend the money once. So I have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 238: no use of biomass until its sustainability frameworks have been established. The Secretary of State for IenW has announced a very thorough process in which experts are first asked for advice and then a framework is constructed. At the moment, we are still working with biomass based on the vision that is just there. I do not want to suspend this until that final framework has been established. That framework is becoming very serious, and the Secretary of State of IenW attaches great importance to it, but I do not recommend the suspension. The motion in part No. 239, I advise. In the coalition agreement there is a very clear statement about this. Then there is the motion by Mr Dik-Faber/Jetten on part No. 240. "Excuse me" is open to the Chamber. I just said something else, by the way. In between, I think that we may be dependent on biomass for an interim period for the controllable power. The motion calls on the government to prioritise the use of biomass. It depends a little on what is meant by this sentence, but I really want to wait and see that investigation. So I would ask the petitioners to at least hold this motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u451	I'll discuss the latter with the co-subscriber. So I'll come back to that in the next few days. In the case of "pronounced" my point is as follows. The Minister indicated that he said something else about it. He has indeed said that we may still need electricity generated from biomass for a period of time. That is not what is being discussed here either; it is about subsidising the production of electricity from biomass. I think that is just part of the coalition agreement. I think it's good to work together in that line. I'd like to give that to the Minister about this motion. Anyway, I will also go into consultation with Mr Jetten. I'll see what I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u452	I do insist that the coalition agreement is about co-funding. This is just another matter. So "speaks that" the Chamber is free. We may have other thoughts about that, but I do not focus on that in the advice. On that other point, I must advise against the motion, unless we can call it desirable at a later stage. Well, that'd call for a hold-up. Then the motion to part No. 241 from Mrs Yeşilgöz to make cost-effectiveness a guiding factor. I can't wait to wear that. I'll leave this motion judgment room. Her motion in part No. 242 on the perspective of action is very logical and let me judge Chamber. Her motion in part No. 243 on the level playing field is fully in line with today's debate and I leave it to the House to decide. I may have left a little too early, but it is true that the motion in part No. Mr Moorlag (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have informed you of this, because I was able to imagine this too. But it turns out that an SME requires a much deeper and much more concrete model than is provided here by DNB. It would require a detailed elaboration of this arrangement before the SMEA is ready. I'm not prepared to do that, so I'm afraid I have to advise against this motion. I found Mr Moorlag's question quite logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u453	A quick question. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u454	Would Mr Wiebes poke...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u455	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u456	Would Mr Wiebes be able to push for a validation by the Central Planning Bureau?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u457	Well, I don't know if that's possible. I need to take a look. That is also something I need to ask the Central Planning Bureau, because I am always a little cautious with commitments about what such an organisation can or cannot do. They need time for it, too. I'm gonna have to put this on the long track. May I just have this wish...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u458	I was hoping that that call to the CPB could take place on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u459	I'm gonna go see if I can get that call by Tuesday. Let me take a look at that. The ISDE will be evaluated in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u460	Thank you. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u461	I know that the Minister does not usually make much sense to debate after 9 p.m. I think he did very well. I thank him once again for all the answers. I would like to point out that of the 19 motions tabled there were nine of the coalition, all but one of them having been given a Chamber of Commerce and that the opposition has been heard quite categorically: dissuade. If the Minister attaches importance to broad support: in the polder it has always been about that. Wide support in this Chamber is also important, so I would like to give it to you, perhaps for subsequent debates, to be generous towards the opposition as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u462	I would like to say a few words about this, because I agree with Mr Klaver. He knows that as soon as it's possible, I'll try to meet that. That is the two cases where I have seriously tried not to do so, but for practical reasons. At both, it didn't seem possible to do it. I did make a serious effort to do that, because I thought both questions were reasonable. If it had been possible, we would have done it. I'll give you that. My little fight behind the scenes hasn't delivered a viable map, but that can happen sometimes. It is also possible, in a manner of speaking, to discuss an occasional need for information or something, so that requests can be made which may be feasible. I'm always open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u463	It is good that the Minister is always open to requests that are feasible. Is it feasible for the ISDE research to be completed at the beginning of 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u464	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u465	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u466	But at least in the middle, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u467	I would like to strive for the middle, but it will then be at least the second half of the middle. In the past year and the five days I've been sitting here, I've noticed that I've just thought too often that something would be done at a certain time and I haven't been able to do it too often. So I'm gonna be more careful with this kind of commitment, because people are working their way completely crooked, a stroke in the round, sometimes all think it's gonna work and then it won't work. I'm gonna stick to what I got.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u468	Mrs. Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u469	But it has also succeeded very often. We are grateful again for that as MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u470	I love that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u471	So it's nice that it's around mid 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u472	I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u473	Thanks to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u474	Thank you. Thanks also to the Chamber, to the Minister, to the people of the stenography service, to the officials, to the messengers, to the clerks, to the people who followed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u475	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
