ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and all other members of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Chairman. It seemed that we had left behind the time when the manufacturer said to the pastor, "Keep them stupid, and I'll keep them poor." However, this statement is alive and well, but it is no longer the manufacturer and the pastor, but it is this cabinet that wants to keep the people stupid with the European Union and then make them poor. In the country of Rutte, it's only cool if you belong to the elitist clique of Rutte who shifts the lanes and privileges. For this cabal, it doesn't matter if the groceries are getting more expensive, house prices are rising, health care is rising, the energy bill is becoming priceless and the pension is falling behind again. They also don't live in some disadvantaged neighborhood where the original Dutch people are no longer welcome and are bullied away, where your car can be set on fire and where during Ramadan 100 Allah worshippers spend the night under your bedroom window, complete with barbecues, while you have to go back to work the next day. In the city of the GroenLinkse mayor Halsema it is so furious that the Dutch police are no longer welcome in the El Tawheedmoskee. Only Moroccan cops are welcome. I can't wait to see if she's gonna close that hatehouse, but it's gonna stay with tough talk. Mr. Chairman. For the average families it is every day top sports to make it to the end of the month, because in the country of Rutte you can belong to the working poor even though you have a job. For the older couples, the big question is: are we still together at the end of the month or is my lover just going to end up somewhere where only one place is free in the nursing home or just somewhere on the street? In the country of Rutte, it is not at all certain that you as a couple stay together until death do you part. Mr. Chairman. This is happening despite the fact that, like last year, there is a surplus of some billions. This year there is 8 billion left! Those 8 billion are ours. Not that we get a penny of it; Rutte prefers the multinationals. For example, the Prime Minister tried to abolish the dividend tax on his own accord. The fact that most of the citizens didn't see anything in it left him freezing. There had to be a public humiliation by his former employer Unilever to teach the Prime Minister. The dividend plan was dumped and instead of using the 2 billion released in order not to allow the VAT increase to go ahead and benefit everyone, these billions are shamelessly shoved into the pockets of multinationals and large business. For example, with these 2 billion, multinational companies and large companies are reduced by further reductions in corporate tax, foreign workers are cut off through the expat scheme, for the time being they pay 30% less tax than Dutch companies and the directors-large shareholders who have borrowed money. Meanwhile, the households have been tipped off for years. Over the past 15 years, households have been given a low 2% extra spending. For the past 15 years 2%! This while in the same period the economy grew by 15%. Those purchasing power cards that the cabinet dares to dish are false. Speaking of fake news. Mr. Chairman. Through the open borders, purchasing power stagnates. The purchasing power is being eroded by tens of thousands of fortune seekers who eagerly plunder the greenhouses of our welfare state. Social security expenditure does not rise for nothing and is not the biggest item of expenditure for nothing, and this at a time of economic growth. While more and more working Dutch people are forced to spend their holidays at home, tens of thousands of fraudulent Poles also spend their holidays at home, in their country, but with a Dutch WW allowance in their pocket. Then there are cheating Bulgarians, cheating Romanians, cheating Turks and cheating Moroccans who like to quit their jobs and then hold their hand for a WW benefit. All this under the watchful eye of the lame management of the UWV. Are you partly responsible for this maladministration? It doesn't matter. You can always make it Minister of Medical Care. When asked why Minister Bruins said yes to this post, he replied, among other things: "Keeping care good and affordable is crucial. I find it an honor to be able to work on major social issues." Given his UWV history, the question arises: will Bruno be able to do that? What do you think, Mr. Chairman? Mr. Chairman. It is estimated that one out of the five Turkish-Dutch welfare workers secretly has a house in Turkey where they regularly fêt. But, yes, targeted control is undesirable in the politically correct. However, on appeal, it has been considered that the granting authorities are entitled to carry out targeted checks. The power key can also be performed in Turkey. Municipalities should simply implement the rules and limit fraud against Turks. In the case of Turkish assistance, too, they must first eat their own homes before they are eligible for assistance. Then it doesn't matter whether that house is in the Netherlands or in Turkey. Mr. Chairman. Then you think you've had it all, but then you've got the traveling judge. Then I don't mean Mr. Visser of SBS6. I'm talking about Al K., an Iraqi judge who ruled under Saddam Hussein's regime. I have here a newspaper article in which you can read that he came to the Netherlands twenty years ago. After the fall of Saddam Hussein, he resumed his old occupation in his homeland. For years he flew back and forth, monthly, from Amsterdam to Baghdad for his work as Iraqi magistrate for which he was richly rewarded while his welfare allowance in the Netherlands was credited by the municipality of Vleuten. How is this possible? How could something like that happen? Can the Prime Minister explain this in more detail? Has that benefit been recovered yet? And why didn't he stay in Baghdad? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. And in the meantime, the ordinary citizen gets the bill presented. Higher VAT, making the daily groceries much more expensive. Higher care costs, except if you're an asylum seeker, because they get everything for free and more care. An ever-increasing energy bill, while 1 million households live in energy poverty and are already unable to pay the bill. Higher rents. Getting a place to rent is almost impossible for ordinary citizens. Houses that are released are usually first assigned to status holders. And the number of lucky seekers is increasing again. The COA is already spreading extra cots. So there's more trouble. A starter in Nieuwegein can have a chance to live in a house if he then becomes the slave of a housing association that obliges him/her to work four hours a week. This does not, of course, apply to status holders. Well, in the AZC everything was done for them. That's what they're used to. Mr. Chairman. You think you can chill in your own house, you need to get rid of the environmental mafia. They are close friends with the political elite and have made a tricky alliance in the form of the climate agreement, with the climate law as back cover. This will be the bottomless pit of Rutte and his comrades. Under the guidance of the VVD'er Ed Nijpels, unelected know-it-all take place behind closed doors at the climate tables and make their policies. Distinctive opinions are immediately thrown off the table. The climate table built environment, where the shaved PvdA'er Diederik Samsom swings the scepter, wants to force everyone to get off the gas and increase the gas price considerably. And if you think as a good citizen who is forced to connect to the heat grid that you're comfortable with, you come home from a cold carnival. The use of heat grids is linked to the gas price. So it's your turn, too. So you see, the fox loses its hair, but not its tricks. But what can you expect from a former Greenpeace activist? This climate table will therefore reduce the towering costs of tens of thousands of euros per home to the easiest victims: households. 'Cause the big boys have different rules. And you can't afford it? Then there's just one more loan. Have you borrowed up to the maximum yet? Also no need, on a provincial level they hatch new constructions for people who have no money but still have their own home. Literally and figuratively, the ground is pulled from under your feet and the municipality takes away your house. In exchange for the transfer to the municipality of the bare property of the land under the house, the victim receives a bag of money to make his own home more sustainable; and whoever owns the land owns the property. A gross proposal. So you shouldn't think about the neighborhood where you live becoming a pilot for gas-free living. In the meantime, the Minister of the Interior has designated 27 areas to be experimentally removed from the gas. It'll just be your neighborhood. Mr. Chairman. After your house, it's your car. After this sacred cow has been milked, he must go to the slaughter. The climate table mobility prefers to abolish own car ownership. You have to ride a partial car. Actually, that's just some kind of taxi, except you're driving yourself. If you don't become a dealer, you're not allowed to park anywhere. I'm holding my heart for whatever idiotry comes off those tables led by Ed Nijpels. How serious can you take this self-appointed lover of Linda de Mol? That's never gonna work out, is it? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the environmental mafia, we also have the migration mafia that wants to turn the Netherlands into a multicultural society where Black Piet should not be black, where Michiel de Ruyter should not be a sea hero and where a man cannot be a man and a woman should not be a woman. Mr. and Mrs. Jansen are disappearing. Perhaps it will become Comrade Jansen or worse "brother or sister" if we end up in the pit of Islam where women, homosexuals, Jews, Christians, apostates and other unbelievers only have the existence of an inferior. Mr. Chairman. The Foreign Minister had the guts to criticise multicultural society. He told me to quote: "You're running into the limits of what a society can have quite quickly. That is why I also say: I understand the people in Amsterdam-West and in the Schilderswijk. Because if you live in Benordenhout, it's really nice to go to the Turkish bakery on Sunday. So you don't suffer from a number of side effects. But if you live in the middle of it, you're in a lot of trouble." End of quote. To sum up, multicultural society is a disaster and the indigenous population suffers a lot from it. However, the minister held only briefly and fell back into the political-correct swamp. But isn't it true that native children in a multicultural neighbourhood at school suffer from Islamic bullying? Recently, after two months of bullying, the thirteen-year-old Mees completely collapsed. He used to sit on break and eat nothing but his little bums. Mees was the only Dutchman, an outlaw cheese head. Don't women and girls without headscarfs get harassed? And can you still enjoy your night's sleep during Ramadan as a native? Will the Sharia police not be deployed in the Schilderswijk during the turn of the year because otherwise there will be no love left? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Yet the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did smoke an opportunity to take down their own minister. Even the Prime Minister humiliated his own minister for his own ministry. The ministry that is filled with left-wing activists who roll out the agendas of their own parties, PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks, in institutes such as the United Nations. Open borders, globalisation, mass immigration, anti-Zionism, or anti-Semitism, prevails in line with the EU's favourite of the Left, the European Commissioner Frederica Mogherini, who also proudly posed with the terrorist Arafat, the dubious boyfriend of the Foreign Trade Minister. It is therefore high time that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took a firm stand. Let's drain the swamp. Mr. Chairman. This government raises our children to be sheep and lets wolves in with the risk of being slaughtered ritually in the future. 1,400 years ago, Islam declared war on all unbelievers. The jihad is the duty of every Muslim and calls upon every unbeliever to submit, with or without violence. More and more the scourge of Islam strikes. Bomb attacks, trucks, semi-automatic guns, axes, knives, molotov cocktails. Complete districts in Sweden have become war zones. In Uppsala, the police have officially announced that they have lost the fight against the immigrant gangs. In the United Kingdom, underage girls have been horribly abused by unscrupulous Muslim men. In France Jews are murdered because they are Jewish. And it won't pass our door. Worse still, the door is wide open. Recently, the Netherlands itself crawled through the eye of the needle and a planned attack was prevented. Seven suspects were arrested in Weert and the Gelderse jihadstad Arnhem where the mayor finds inspiration in the Muslim Brotherhood. Not very reassuring. The D.A.'s office says they probably wanted to use machine guns and bomb vests in an attack, and they also wanted to detonate a car bomb. And that is just the beginning of what awaits us. In our neighbouring countries, we can see all our foreland. Syrians enter the Netherlands on stolen passports whose serial numbers are known and allowed to remain normal, even though it is known that two Iraqis traveled on such a passport through Serbia to Paris, where they blew up with 130 deaths as a result. So just turn it off and give them the message: go build your own country together with Allah. Meanwhile, 700,000 Syrians have already returned home. It is therefore high time that Syrians who reside in the Netherlands also went home before they could qualify for a permanent residence permit. The big question is whether this cabinet is going to commit itself to this and turn the lucky seekers off or whether it remains the accomplice of Islam and simply continues to facilitate the Islamisation of our country. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The judiciary also plays a dubious role. In a rape case, an Afghan rapist received a lower sentence because otherwise he could be deported. It was so sad for him and his pregnant wife when they had to go back home. Apparently their well-being is more important than the well-being of the Dutch victim. Who or what serves the judiciary? And this while the Netherlands regards Afghanistan as a safe country. Worse still, SP, GroenLinks, PvdA will do everything in their power to prevent the incestuous NGO network being deployed by Afghans. Even more idiotic, the NGO network lures on the grant infusion and then undermines national policies. Madness. Drying that NGO swamp. It keeps mopping with the tap open. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: how long will the government continue to subsidise these NGOs? Mr. Chairman. While the mosques offer room for radicalisation, Islamic countries generously allow their oil dollars to flow to the mosques. If an investigation is initiated by the Ministry of Justice and Security to map this financial flow, they are frustrating, yes, there they are again! Officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs They kept lists of at least 30 Islamic organizations that have received money from the Gulf States in the Netherlands under the hat for years and kept them away from the researchers. Do they do that on their own or have they been given instructions from the upper hand? Has this had any consequences? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the mosques are filled with believers. Or, in the language of Erdogan, the barracks are full of soldiers. It does not matter whether or not negotiations are being held with Turkey on accession to the European Union. This government gives Erdogan the chance to simply conduct a silent coup in the Netherlands. He called on the Turks in Western Europe to play a more active role in politics in order to protect Islam and Turkish culture. He's steadily building his network. There are Turkish boarding schools, schools, mosques filled with believers whom he proudly calls "his soldiers." And love is reciprocal. During the opening of the largest Turkish mosque on European territory, located in Cologne, the Turks who were present chanted against Erdogan: "Here is your army and you are our commander." Mr President, I have no choice but to call it a fifth column. And what you're getting in here isn't just out of it. Look at the north of Cyprus. In order to prevent the occupation of the Netherlands, these borders must be closed, and the terrorist network of radicalisation must be broken down. The only form of deradicalisation is de-islamization. So those mosques need to close, Islamic schools need to close, boarding schools need to close. The PVV Senate Group can hardly wait until the PVV's initiative proposal concerning the ban on certain Islamic expressions in the Upper Chamber is dealt with. Mr. Chairman. In order not to commit collective suicide, it is crucial that in December in Marrakesh the government does not sign the UN migration agreement, opening the borders to the whole of Africa, where the population will explode to 4 billion people. This migration agreement legalizes mass immigration by elevating migration to a human right, so that every African seeker of happiness, for the sake of clarity, is not about refugees but about migrants who can make their legal journey to the meat jars of Europe. Meanwhile, this agreement is presented as the solution to migration problems. Migration would then be safe and orderly in the future with regard to the national sovereignty of countries and international cooperation. What do you mean, with respect for sovereignty? The UN is working to centralise the issue of migration, which will lead to the distribution at UN level of migrants among the associated countries, regardless of the impact on that society. Even now, the common man and the ordinary woman are confronted daily with the hell of a multicultural society and are presented with a heavy bill. And who's that gonna be orderly for? Not for the ordinary Dutch. The lucky ones, they're the bacon buyers. Instead of storming fences and beaches, they can just get on the bus legally and travel on the plane and comfortably to the border, which opens wide to billions of Africans. And you're damn right they're coming. Because once they're at the border, regardless of their status, they get all the rights. Access to basic social services such as health and education, right to family reunification, recognition of diplomas. Benefits and pensions can be taken to another country, including the home country. In short, an African dream and a Dutch nightmare. The US and Hungary already see the mood and have withdrawn from the project. Nor are Poland, Austria and Denmark eager to sign this extradition treaty. They have doubts. Mr President, now it is only about Africa, but in the meantime there are similar processes for the Islamic stronghold of West and Central Asia. If the government signs the UN migration agreement, this region will also have all the above-mentioned rights. Initially, Islamic hordes of Africans, followed by hordes of Islamic Asians, will invade the Netherlands, resulting in an intolerable Islamic domination that shamelessly robs the Dutch welfare state until it completely collapses. In short, the end of the Netherlands. Mr President, fellow senators, we must not allow this to happen. We are all responsible for the Netherlands, for our Dutch citizens. Surely we cannot have the total destruction of our country on our consciences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u4	There, Mrs Faber says a true word: we cannot allow it to come to the point that, apparently in her vision, everyone comes to live here? The Netherlands really seems too small for that. But may I hear from Mrs Faber... Now she's told me who's gonna stay out of here. People with different beliefs are not allowed in this, people who live in Africa and yet have a different belief, or people who live in Asia, nobody is allowed in this. But what does the PVV do to keep people from coming here, except put fences and maybe shooters or something like that at the border? Is there also a plan by the PVV to motivate people to stay where they are and be happy there? Or do you think that's more their concern, that's not my concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u5	It's just very simple. The boundaries just have to be closed. It's very simple. Yeah, you can all laugh about it. Mrs. Jorritsma is back on the old track. She always sits in her bench and laughs, but she never dares to come to the microphone. Just close the boundaries, and that's possible. It's possible. Look, if we can put a man on the moon like humans, we can also close a line. It shouldn't be that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mrs Faber spoke of billions of Africans coming here. Now that's quite a lot, billions, there are indeed many people living in Africa. Of all those Africans, the vast majority of them aren't going to move because they're looking for their happiness at home right now. But Mrs Faber says: we close the borders and then we stop billions of Africans. Again the question: is there any idea in the PVV program of what you could do to leave people where they are born and hopefully be happy? Or is it really the case that the PVV thinks so incredibly autarkically that it says: the problems of the rest of the world are the problems of the rest of the world, we are only concerned about what is happening here in the Netherlands? Do you, does the PVV have any idea how to encourage people elsewhere to stay there and be happy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u7	First of all, Mr Kok says that these Africans are all staying there and they don't need to come here at all. There has been an investigation asking Africans living under the Sahel, i.e. below the Sahel's border, if they would be able to go to Europe with all these rights they would have. 30% said: yes, then we come. And I am only talking about the countries under the Sahel, where it is still relatively best. If we look at the Sahel, that's where the most poverty is. We can already see that people from Niger want to come here. And then there's North Africa, we've got Moroccans, Algerians, Egyptians, Libyans, the whole thing. They are all going to come, because with the UN migration agreement, migration becomes a human right, and human rights apply to the whole world. So they're just gonna show up. Then you had the question: what will the PVV do to keep people there? Since the Second World War, billions, billions have been pumped into Africa for decades and nothing has ever come off the ground. That's just because it's such a huge corrupt continent, and as long as they stay so corrupt, it's just not gonna work out at all. So we can't go there. I don't know what they're gonna do. They're gonna have to look at themselves first. There must be a decent government and it must take care of its own people. I stand here as a Dutch parliamentarians and my first responsibility is the well-being of the Netherlands. That's why I'm standing up for our voter. Our electorate is not in favour of opening these borders to billions of Africans and billions of people who can still come from the Middle East, because they are going to come after them. And that just can't be! We are already in a small country with 17 million people. We're already in trouble. Everyone experienced that this morning that had to come here: there is no way to plow across the road, and then I'm just talking about the road. I'm not talking about the houses yet. Yeah, you can laugh about that. Mr. Schaap is always laughing in the bench when I speak here, but I think that's just because he's getting a little nervous. Anyway, that's another story. It's hard coming here already. The hospitals are under pressure. The schools are under pressure. The housing market is under pressure. Social expenditure has become the largest cost, despite a period of economic growth. That's just saying something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Kox finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mrs Faber says at least that says something. I would have liked her to have said something in her long answer to my question. I note that apparently the traffic jams in the Netherlands are also caused by Muslims. If they'd been out, we could've all been driving today. But I note that, while I have asked it three times, the PVV has no answer to the question of what to do to keep people and make them happy where they were born and where they live. The PVV says: all of them aren't my problem; fences around them, gunfire and then we'll all be happy. I wish you every success with the Netherlands you are striving for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to comment on this. I didn't mention a gun at all, but maybe Mr. Kox was inspired by Mao, because I don't know how many millions of people were killed. If it's up to Mr. Kox, everyone's gonna be right and we're all gonna get a Mao suit and a coupon book. That's his endeavor. I didn't mention a gun at all. And that those files would also be the Muslims' fault: well, the vast majority of immigrants do not work, so at least they are not. Anyway... Mr. Kox, I have another question for you. What have all these billions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mrs Faber, perhaps it would be good to continue with your speech. Otherwise we will have a discussion and I told Mr Kox that his question was the last question he could ask on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u12	Yes, but I'm not Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u13	No, I know, but I'd appreciate it if you'd continue your speech. If you ask him another question, he'll have to answer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u14	It was quite a sensible question, because that question would be what all the billions we put in it have been doing in Africa. I think that's a very relevant question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u15	Yes, but you may be able to ask that question in the event of interruption if he keeps his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u16	Okay, so he can prepare for the answer now. Good. Mr. Chairman. In order to protect the Netherlands from a collective suicide, the PVV demands that this cabinet does not sign the UN migration agreement. If the Prime Minister does not give a clear commitment that this cabinet rejects this agreement and therefore does not sign it, I will table a motion of censure on behalf of my group. The question to the Prime Minister is: will the government or will it not sign the UN migration agreement in Marrakesh? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The e.g. the Netherlands becomes richer and the common man and woman poorer. It is scandalous that, in spite of the billions surplus, the burden should be increased mercilessly for ordinary citizens. I told you before: those 8 billion are ours. Therefore, the VAT increase must be reversed, the healthcare premium for 2019 frozen, the rents reduced by 15%, because we are losing our Netherlands. Rutte and his comrades take away everything, our money, our freedom, our identity, our country and our democracy. In the backrooms, they smother democracy by handing us over to the European Union by handing us over to international organisations such as the United Nations. The political difference is no longer left or right. It's between the elite and the common people. The jobs carousel of Rutte and co. spins smoothly with unscrupulous conformists, who are like dead fish. Because even dead fish float along with the flow. I stand here on behalf of the Party for Freedom to stand up for the interests of our constituents, the common man, the common woman, to preserve our freedom, to preserve our country for our children and their children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr. Schalk. Please stand still, Mrs Faber, because Mr Schalk is coming with an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got a little problem. Because before we started the General Political Reviews, Mrs Faber said to me: we are going to debate each other later. So I've been listening very carefully, but on no subject I thought: now I'm getting up. All the way to the end, I was wondering why I didn't have it. And that leads to a question. My group, my party, the SGP, would also like a lot of changes in society. And yet I didn't feel the need to get up. I thought, when I was 18, I was internship as an upcoming teacher in class. There was a miss who, when she came in, slammed the door with a giant blow. After the break, she did it again, and after the afternoon. In the beginning the children were startled, but not after two or three times. Then I was thinking, what have I actually done here in the past few years? I once asked about the Christian-Jewish tradition. I once asked: how do you feel about the words of the Lord Jesus Christ? I asked, what do you have to say about that? In fact, the question that Mr Kox has just asked. But all these times I haven't got an answer and maybe that's why I've stayed there. My final question is: how does Mrs Faber think, when we talk about a government and a country in which we certainly want changes, how do we intend to do justice to the democratic rule of law and keep it going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u19	Well, when I look at the formation of government and how it went down, that the second party of the Netherlands has just been shut out and that no effort is made to talk to it at all, that seems to me to be a point where democracy is actually calving down. And you can see that. It doesn't matter, if you come up with a proposal, whether it's loud or it's soft, whether it's technical or political; they're looking at who it's coming from, and if it's coming from the wrong angle, it's just being wiped down. And that's what this Chamber is guilty of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u20	My question then is: what proposal, what constructive proposal has the PVV made so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u21	Well, I'll tell you... It's been a few years. I was then a spokesman on Economic Affairs and we dealt with the Heat Act here. I found a mistake in that law back then. I also had a point, I saw when I named it. The officials were always sitting there, in the public gallery. It was about the size of the connection of the heat source. If it was too large, it was not under the supervision of the ACM. I had spoken about this in advance with several senators who are now sitting in the Chamber. There were even senators who said, "How did you find that?" I said, it's a matter of combining. The officials in the public gallery panicked, so I just had a point. And I tabled a motion on that. It was a technical story, not politics. It was a technical debate, the Heat Act was just technique, it wasn't politics, but my motion just wasn't adopted. She was just whipped away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u22	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u23	Finally. If this particular example shows why the rest of the argument had to be so firm, I honestly do not understand the quintessence of it. It's about a technical component. It is undoubtedly annoying that it was not resolved, but I was talking about the democratic rule of law, which is not formed by the connection to the heating system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u24	If I may, Madam President, I would like to respond to the democratic rule of law. We simply see that this government and also the political elite are increasingly giving away our democracy, including to Europe, to the European Union. We have less and less to tell. More than half of the legislation in the Netherlands is already being determined by the European Union, and we do not have any more to say about it, because the European Parliament, they are just yes-nogs, they are sitting there eating up a bit with a big salary and say yes to everything. They just decide what happens here. Then, with this UN migration agreement, we are now being extradited to the UN. The United Nations wants to raise the migration problem to global level. At that level, they want an organization for rigging that is going to run it. I can tell you that when it comes to this and it comes to this, I think, if we continue in such a way that the United Nations determines migration, what do we, as a small Netherlands, have to say at a level like that of the United Nations? In general, we see a shift from democracy to human rights because it has been found that the rest of the world no longer has much to do with democracy. It's not gonna work out like that. The Arab Spring has become a big mess. The Middle East is killing democracy, because that's where they believe more in an "Allahcracy," so that's not gonna be him either. Then they focus on human rights, but, as everyone knows, human rights are equal rights in unequal cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. If I gave my contribution a title it would be "we're fine but we should be careful." "The Dutch generally have a high quality of life. The level of education is rising and after economically turbulent times unemployment is falling again and purchasing power is increasing." This is a quote from the findings of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau in the Social State of the Netherlands 2018. Good news. The economic crisis that has hit many people in our country hard in recent years is behind us. Since the beginning of 2018, we have been more positive about the direction the country is heading. Unemployment, the general government deficit and inflation are all lower than the average in the European Union. We are almost back to the level we were at before the economic crisis. If you read the newspapers, you would, sometimes, almost forget how well the Netherlands is doing, even if I listened very carefully. We are becoming more and more highly educated. The unemployment rate is lower than ever. We work more hours, but unfortunately women still work less than men in practice. We are on average very satisfied with our own living situation. Nine out of ten Dutch people are satisfied with his or her home. But this is where we have to be careful. There is a risk of overheating of the housing market, which affects start-ups especially in urban areas. The call for adequate government policies is becoming increasingly louder. Does the government think it can get rid of the current state policy or is there any additional policy in preparation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr President, Mrs Jorritsma is right to address the problem of the housing market. That's a really big problem. The prices of properties go up fast. In addition, of course, we also have a problem with the social rentals. We see the rentals falling dramatically in number, while waiting times are increasing. Does Mrs Jorritsma also take this issue into account in her analysis of the housing market? What is the VVD's idea of solving that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u29	I know that a number of proposals have been made by the House of Representatives by a number of coalition parties, including my own party. There are sufficient social housing in itself. However, they are partly inhabited by people who do not actually have to live in a social housing unit anymore. We need to do something about that. We need to think about how to solve that. It is far too easy to say: add new ones or sell no more houses and then the problem resolves itself. I have been mayor of a large municipality for 12 years with a very large contingent of social housing and yet we had long waiting lists. It's not that simple. You've got to think of some good measures to do that. There are municipalities that are experimenting to get the flow going better. At the same time, I realize that not everyone can live in the municipality of Amsterdam. I've been mayor of a community that was next door for years. A lot of people have become very happy there, despite the fact that they no longer lived in Amsterdam and might not be able to live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u30	I have the feeling that this is a bit of a trivialization of the problem. It is not so much about people having a certain preference for the city as about the fact that the absolute number of rental homes has fallen dramatically over the past decade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u31	Yeah, you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u32	There are still a lot of people waiting for a social rental house that they would also be entitled to. We have had the landlord's tax which makes housing corporations very difficult to meet the number of homes needed. This may be partly due to the number of crooked tenants, although in practice this number is relative. But we, too, as a government, will have to find a solution to this, especially now that the market is so tense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u33	I always have a problem. Some municipalities have exceptionally high rates of social housing. These are the same municipalities where the waiting times are longest. I used to live in Bolsward. You never had to wait for a social rental. Those apartments were just available. They had a very low percentage there. You do not tell me that in the big cities 60% of people are entitled to a social housing. In some cases, the market there is still so large. So it is a question of division. That's what we need to talk about. I think that a number of ideas have now been put on the table which I hope will be worked out so that people are more encouraged to look at alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u34	Finally. I would very much like the VVD Group to really take this group of people waiting for a rental home with ideas about a solution for the overheated housing market. That's incredibly important. It's not just about buying, it's about renting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u35	Let me now wholeheartedly agree that we should certainly do so. I think we should make sure that all people can find a decent place to live. It's not always gonna be the case that that decent place is around the corner from where they live right now. That's not the case for once, but that's not so bad at all. If you've been on the list for a long time for a social rental, then you'll find it very annoying to have to leave after that because your income has now become too high. Yet we will have to think about how we stimulate those people, maybe sometimes seduce them and perhaps sometimes force them to move to another home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Jorritsma says something interesting. There are people in social housing that are supposed to live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u38	Who have a low, sorry, too high income.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u39	You're only talking about that group. Is it not also true that all these homes are currently allocated to status holders, especially in large cities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u40	As far as I know, an extremely small percentage is allocated to status holders. That also makes sense to me, because they are people who are entitled to stay in the Netherlands because they have been granted the political status of refugee. I'd be really embarrassed if we didn't put these people under the roof properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u41	I'd be ashamed if we couldn't get our Dutch decent under the roof. The other day there was another piece in the media about people who had a job but were still homeless. There's just no home for them to find. You say that not so many people are settled there. But every status holder gets priority when assigning a social rental house. They're the first to steal the homes that have been released. Then you shouldn't say it's just a very small percentage. All homes that fall free mainly go to status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mrs Faber, it's not true. It's just not true. In many cases, status holders are looking for alternative solutions and not just the social housing. Sometimes living space is shared with others. Very often they are single people who come into the house with several single people. They have to be brought under the roof. If someone is allowed to stay in the Netherlands, we treat all other Dutch people in this way.You can't leave them on the streets. Nor should we do that with Dutch people, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u43	Finally, Mrs Faber on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Jorritsma says it's not true. Am I gonna stand here and lie? Isn't it true that most vacant social housing is allocated to status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u45	That's not true. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u46	So I'm lying?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u47	Well, if it's not true, at least it's not true. I wouldn't say you're lying, but maybe you don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u48	Then I think you should have the guts to say I'm lying. But you wouldn't dare, because you know there's a core truth in what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u49	No, no, no, if you want me to say you're lying, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mrs. Jorritsma, it goes through the chairman. It'll keep things quiet a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u51	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. We're all getting older. And fortunately, we are also longer and longer healthy. In general, we in the Netherlands appreciate our lives with an 8. Honestly, I think that's almost a ridiculous figure. I never made it in high school. I realize very well that an average doesn't say everything. But people with lower incomes also give their lives an average 7.4. I was very satisfied with that back then. In addition, we see that people over 65 have also seen their living conditions improve considerably over the past ten years. This is partly due to the fact that today's But it is also because they participate more actively and are less inhibited by health problems than they were ten years ago. Beautiful figures, which show that the Netherlands is in good shape and we as Dutch people can be proud of that. We're very good together in the Netherlands. That's fine, we can cherish that, and we have to be careful about it. These fine figures, Mr President, do not mean that the Netherlands is finished, that the problems are over and that there is nothing left to worry about. Because the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also notes that there are persistent differences between population groups in a number of areas, for example between people of different origins when it comes to the level of education of people or their participation in the labour market. A good education and a good job are really not self-evident for every Dutchman. For example, there are still differences between men and women in the distribution of work and care; too bad. In addition, there is a group of people whose problems accumulate, especially people who have to deal with different social services. In plain language: if you need a lot of care and support, the chances of being less satisfied with your own life are greater. We must not lose sight of these persistent differences, because there are problems behind them that call for a solution. If we want everyone to be able to participate, if everyone is free to shape their own lives, and if we want everyone to reap the benefits of economic recovery, we must also bring those who have difficulty coming with us. In the coalition agreement, the cabinet made a large number of agreements to do something about it. Strong investment in education, care, police, in short, in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mrs Jorritsma mentioned the difference between the division of labour and the division of care between men and women. She linked that to education and job and so on. That's all fine, but can it also be that people choose no work or no paid work, let me put it this way? How does Mrs Jorritsma assess the value of unpaid work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u53	Let me start by saying that I think unpaid work is extremely important, but that is also what I think of people who are doing paid work and doing unpaid work. Honesty dictates that the people who do the most volunteering are usually people who also have a full paid job. That's very bizarre, but it's okay. I'm happy about that. If people really choose not to work, that is of course a free choice. But to be honest, I always find it very special that our assistance is populated by women. Those are women who have probably chosen to stay at home quite voluntarily at some point, as it is said. At least, to not work enough to make a career. Those are the women who, after divorce or the death of their husbands, end up in the welfare system and usually find it very difficult to get back there. That's what I'm worried about. Where that problem is always dismissed as 'yes but it is a free choice', I think that choice is a little less free than we often say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u54	I don't have those numbers all that ready and I'm certainly not gonna ask if I'm lying or anything, but I'm wondering if you can still say that people who opt for unpaid work are all in trouble with their education. That is different today, and I think Mrs Jorritsma knows that too. But how does she appreciate the unpaid work in the end? Should we be looking for an appreciation for that? We sometimes talk about the fact that every part of our society needs a value in it. This kind of care, for example, or family care, should also be of value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u55	I always struggle with the problem of whether the government should go back into it. My husband, who has been retired for many years, has taken care of my mother for many years. I was very happy about that. Unfortunately, I didn't have time, so I was really glad he did. I've appreciated that personally, personally and our environment as well, but I don't see very well how as a society, as a government, you have to set something up to give it some kind of value. I find that complicated, but perhaps you have some ideas about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u56	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u57	Perhaps it is very complicated to ask the government to put a value on that, but perhaps we should at least decide to stop punishing the work your husband has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u58	I don't think we're punishing it. I don't think the government is doing any more discrimination. She says that every human being is equal, and when people make money, they have to pay taxes on it. That seems very reasonable to me. I myself was present in the House of Representatives when all this legislation was dealt with which led to an individual appreciation of the people who have work. What used to be added together, we pulled apart. I am very pleased with that and I hope that it will remain so, because I would be very sorry if two people doing work were then punished for doing both work, while a single earner could be rewarded. I simply disagree with that, not in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u59	A brief interruption, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u60	I can imagine that Mrs Jorritsma does not want to reward a single earner, but to punish him, as is happening now... But we'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u62	I would like to return to the research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, to which Mrs Jorritsma refers. The analysis there is a little deeper than I'm getting back from Mrs. Jorritsma. The analysis there is that the winners gain structurally and lose the losers structurally, with the result that 4% of the population is lagging behind and 30% of the population faces a accumulation of problems: bad work, physically unhealthy, later retirement, worse health at retirement age, earlier death. I am curious to see what Mrs Jorritsma is proposing to do about this accumulation of problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u63	I come to this later in my story, namely that this is partly, a large part, also decentralised policy, which we should now interfere with in another place and fortunately also interfere with. But we can still do better than that. I'd like to come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u64	Does Mrs Jorritsma also see a special role for the First Chamber in this by looking at legislation and coherence and paying more attention to the accumulation of legislative results rather than looking at them individually?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u65	When legislation is on the table, we certainly need to do so. I also assume that this happened when, for example, the Wmo was dealt with and when the decentralisations of the social domain were dealt with. For the rest, if changes occur, we will of course do so again. Moreover, I am not of the category that thinks that everything should be put back into legislation immediately. I'd like to come back to that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. I just said we shouldn't lose sight of the persistent differences. The cabinet makes investments in education, care and police, i.e. in the public sector, where people notice something directly. In addition, we promote participation in the labour market, including those who have been on the sidelines for far too long. Can the cabinet indicate how the ambitions in this area are being further developed? In addition, a lot of money goes to municipalities, rightly so. After the decentralisations, they carry out those tasks that many people directly deal with. These decentralisations have been completed in The Hague, but we are far from there. We must be careful to judge too quickly if things are not yet perfect everywhere. Municipalities have an expensive duty to do really better than in the old situation before, when it was all in sectors. That doesn't seem to be the case everywhere. May I give you an example? For example, there are more to be called "youth regions" which in some places are divided into sub-regions, which makes cooperation more difficult, or opaque procurement procedures that create uncertainty for institutions. I think it is good that we sometimes stress that municipalities really need to learn from each other. No new bureaucracy, and where The Hague can take away rules, please. In order to cut into the old bureaucracy, we expect action from the cabinet. At the same time, politicians must be cautious and not propose to solve the problem by means of new rules in every incident. There is really no shortage of rules in the social domain. Give city councils the room to shape the supervision themselves, I'd say. Help them where necessary, but don't get in the way. Mr. Chairman. It is important that as many people as possible benefit from the economic recovery. That starts with the relief in the government agreement so that at the end of the month you can see on your pay slip that you are improving, but it doesn't end there. The fact that things are going well now is good, but we would like to see the Netherlands still doing well economically in ten and twenty years' time. We want Cabinets to be able to invest extra in the public sector in 10 and 20 years, like this cabinet. In good and loving care, in education that can measure with the rest of the world, in safety and in infrastructure. That does mean that we have to earn the money for these investments with each other first. This calls for a strong economy and a good locational environment, because it is ultimately the companies, big and small, that provide jobs, tax revenues, for the money we need to make all these investments in the public sector. The VVD will also pay attention to the tax position of middle income and SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u66	Mrs Jorritsma talks about reaping the benefits of economic recovery. That sounds good, but Mr Wiebes, the Minister for Economic Affairs of Mrs Jorritsma's own party, has said that economic growth in the coming years will go hand in hand with energy transition. So, how do you see that we have any benefit from that? How can you put this into perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u67	We still have to get the proposals from the cabinet. Nor do I think that the proposals from the cabinet will solve all the problems until 2050. That would also be a bit weird, because 30 years ago we didn't know what we could do today. It would be nice if we could solve it all within economic growth, because that would mean that we might not have to impose additional burdens on citizens. You only have to tax them if there is no economic growth and you still have to do things. It may well be that if you do that in a smart way, it does not mean that the citizens automatically have to turn in on all sides. You can do it smartly, and I think it's also the cabinet's idea to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u68	Economic growth is at the heart of the energy transition, if I may believe the Minister of Economic Affairs. Let's assume that's true. So you'd be on the zero line. Then there's inflation. We see that the current government is the biggest driver of inflation, just by increasing VAT. So we should at least go for zero inflation, because otherwise that is simply impossible to achieve. If you keep inflation, you're just gonna turn it in, because the companies aren't crazy about raises either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u69	You do have a very simple economic reasoning at the moment. There are all kinds of buttons that we can turn to influence people's incomes and economic growth. We can also decide to spend a little less on some things. It could be. These are ways that we have been doing well for a long time. Honestly, I found it easier to rule in those days than when there was more money, but okay. Converting is also part of it when it's complicated. If you have to exploit economic growth for the energy transition, it may also result in people having to pay less in some respects, for example if the house is well insulated, if you have taken a very economical boiler or if you have received a heat pump, a hybrid as far as I am concerned for the time being. That kind of thing can also solve part of the problem. It is not automatic that if economic growth goes to transition for a large part, this means that this is bad for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u71	I find it a bit humorous, because Mrs Jorritsma says that your energy costs may go down if you isolate your home. Well, first of all, if we have to do what the climate tables suggest, that the houses are made gasless, it will cost you at least €50,000 to €60,000 to isolate your home. People can't afford that. Then it's said, "Go borrow." But they can't borrow anymore because they're already at the maximum. That's just an unfeasible card. Then you're talking about heat exchangers. We won't be talking about that license you didn't have for that heat exchanger eight years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u72	That was a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u73	That was a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u74	That's right, it's a shame, we were almost energy neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mrs. Jorritsma, please go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mrs Jorritsma thinks she is Jupiter: Jupiter does not like the cows yet. Anyway... Again, about the energy transition. It's just gonna cost a lot of money and it's gonna cost people way too much money. It's just not payable. That is why the question is why the VVD is not going to stop this madness, because it is priceless.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. We are convinced that we have a problem with the climate and that we must address it. We are then convinced that you must do so in the most economically efficient way possible. There are no proposals yet. These proposals will, I hope, come at the end of this year. I am going to ask the cabinet about this; I will ask what the planning seems to be now. Those proposals will not be about the period from now until 2050 and they are certainly not about everyone getting rid of the gas within the next few years. If that were the outcome, you'd find me by your side. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u78	I am pleased that Mrs Jorritsma considers the sustainability issue to be important. Today, a report by ABN AMRO shows that consumers pay mainly because the messages become more expensive. The Dutch Bank advocates that large companies bear a heavier burden when it comes to the energy transition. The burden is now mainly borne by small businesses and people. How does the VVD see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u79	I think everyone has to pay for that, so the big companies have to pay for it. I think I know that it was an initiative by Mr Wiebes himself to make the biggest energy sneakers... No, how do I say that? To ask the slurpers to switch to other energy supplies as soon as possible. I think that's a good idea. That's what needs to be done. Look, you can worry about what's happening at some of the tables. I'll talk to you about that in a minute. Unfortunately, the main stakeholder is not sitting at those tables. That is what we all are. Ordinary citizens. Well, we're not, we're not ordinary citizens, but we represent them here. The commoner's pretty far away from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u80	I have just heard Mrs Jorritsma say that we in the VVD are going to keep an eye on the fact that we are going to take middle income into account in the fiscal measures and also in the case of SMEs. Now we know that, in particular, the smaller companies are incredibly affected by the increase in VAT from 6% to 9%. On the other hand, there are a number of measures, such as reducing the burden on employers on labour. That is a point, but the reduction in the tax on profits does not benefit small businesses. They're usually not partners. Does Mrs Jorritsma refer in her speech to new, additional proposals that the VVD is going to make in order to continue to spare those smaller companies? Or does she actually like it like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u81	We consider the proposals made by the cabinet to be balanced. The VAT increase is offset by a reduction in income tax. This means that people who have to pay VAT are compensated for this. Moreover, many of these small entrepreneurs are Ib entrepreneurs and therefore have an advantage; they have to pay less income tax. The VAT increase. I always find it very special. We have always believed that you should try to bring taxes more from labour to products. Now the cabinet is doing this in a cautious way with a small increase, because it is about an increase of 6% to 9%. That really doesn't scare you very much. I think that this is reasonable, especially because it is the opposite of a reduction in the tax on labour. We have always argued in favour of this. In fact, I believe that you have done the same. I think that everyone actually thinks that we should tax our consumption more than labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u82	I mentioned it as a plus that the burden on labour is indeed going down, but small businesses are dealing with it and are already experiencing fewer people taking services away from them precisely because of the increased VAT rates. You can say that this is an exaggeration, but they have to do with the results, with the behaviour of consumers. The question is whether the VVD will properly monitor this and, if necessary, consider whether more tax measures can be taken to keep those smaller companies out of the wind. Or do you say this is the way it should be done and this is the end of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u83	I think that every year everyone looks at the outcome of the policy. We are going to look at that again next year when the burden for the year after that has to be determined. My comment on the tax position of middle-incomes and SMEs focuses on the fact that if proposals are made again in the future, we will look closely at the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. You might say next year: here's where we have to come up with something. By the way, I would not be strongly in favour of shifting the burden from product to income. I wouldn't be much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u84	I would like to return to Mrs Jorritsma's compliments on investment in the public sector. These compliments amaze me a little in the light of the demonstration that took place in The Hague on 2 October and the demonstration that is taking place in Amsterdam on 10 November, where policemen, care workers and teachers complain that there is not enough investment in the public sector. I am very curious to see how Mrs Jorritsma looks at the contribution of the public sector to the locational environment in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u85	I think our public sector is fortunately a very good sector. Most people who do the work there do that very well. I am also sad that we have too few people working in some sectors. Moreover, these are the sectors where the most part-time work is carried out and where many very small part-time jobs involve a high workload. Perhaps we should take a closer look at that. At the same time, I think it's one of two. You can only spend your money once. Here we have opted for a substantial investment in education, care and police, and that is what we are talking about at the moment. They would not even be able to handle much more, because we need the people to be able to do that work again. I am sorry that during these demonstrations an image is created as if it is nothing and it is a bit of a slap. That's not true. They are huge investments, and they must be done well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u86	Finally, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u87	The concerns are enormous and I am surprised that Mrs Jorritsma is so trivialising this. The teachers, the care workers and the policemen go to the Dam for a reason. They suffer from an enormous workload and low salaries, and they do not feel recognized. In education, there is also an additional regulatory burden. I am glad that Mrs Jorritsma is drawing attention to this. So I think that it should not be trivialized and that the concerns should be taken seriously. I hope that, from the point of view of the locational environment, there will also be strong investment in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u88	There is strong investment in the public sector. That also helps with the location climate. I really wouldn't want to say that people get paid very badly, because that's just not true. We must ensure that we do not use this as a sort of frame ourselves. Yes, in some places the salaries can rise, there they go up, but it is not that the salaries in the public sector are too low. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u89	Just a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u90	One more. Does Mrs Jorritsma find the salaries of primary school teachers acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u91	Right now it is and it's going up. They go up more than the others. That's perfectly right. I also note that part of the salary allocation that was once there has not been used to increase salaries. I deeply regret that. That is why I am pleased that I can read in the newspaper that the Minister of Education wants a little more guidance to ensure that the money also comes to the places for which it was agreed. Mr. Chairman. It's incredibly easy to pass on to business. Especially on large companies and the alleged benefits they receive over and over again. But that does not do us justice to the importance of all this activity. This activity has made the Netherlands great. Without people who dare to take risks by starting a business or by investing in a start-up or in a large business, our economic growth will just as quickly come to a standstill squeaking and grinding. That would be a shame for all those people who have a job because of these companies, but also for all those investments in our public sector. Without companies and the people who work there, the public sector cannot exist at all, while it is precisely the combination of a good locational environment and good social services that makes the Netherlands such a fine country. And let's not forget the enterprisingzzp'er. We have to deal with phantom structures, but we are not going to pushzzp'ers who are very consciously working for our own account in the direction of an employeeship. If you want to do business, you can do it in the Netherlands. Whether you have 1, 100 or 1,000 staff. Mr. Chairman. This fine country is not an island. We are a small country in a very large world, a world in which major issues and changes are currently coming to us in the area of climate change, shifting power blocks and the associated international instability. The rules-based world order that created a long period of stability and clear relations between the various superpowers after the Second World War is increasingly under pressure. The obviousness of international cooperation within the United Nations, NATO, the WTO and other organisations is increasingly under pressure. Europe must therefore take greater responsibility for the security of its own continent. In the long term, we will have to increase our defence effort further, preferably together with other European countries, because we are stronger together in a world where traditional power relations are rapidly shifting. The fact that leaders such as Putin and Erdogan do not care much about the value and importance of international organisations will not surprise anyone. The fact that US President Trump is increasingly withdrawing from these forms of cooperation is a clear sign. Global problems call for global solutions and it does not help if countries withdraw from those organisations in which we can work together to find the best solutions to these problems. It is an illusion to think that we can manage the changed climate only in the Netherlands or in Europe. This requires commitment from all countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. It is good to hear from Mrs Jorritsma that it is not wise for large countries in particular to withdraw from important international agreements. Mrs Jorritsma refers to the climate agreement that the Americans are not participating in and that other countries are threatening to do so now. We also have the INF Treaty on which the President of the United States has just announced that he is withdrawing from it, with the risk of returning medium-range missiles to our territory. How does Mrs Jorritsma think that our government should respond to this, assuming that she recognizes with me that rockets back on our territory, which we lost after the cold war, is the worst thing that could happen to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u93	I agree with you. So that shouldn't happen. I hope that we will do everything in our power to try to get the United States back or keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u94	What does Mrs Jorritsma think this government should do? So far we have seen a number of governments react, but the Dutch Government is, perhaps for its miraculous reasons, rather quiet in this area. Is that wisdom or should a more assertive attitude be called for from our government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u95	I'm not that bad about the club saying we should always get on top of the barricades and yell the loudest. My experience is very good, and I think that this cabinet is constantly working on it. It is sometimes better to try to get things done in the background. So I'd like to hear the method this cabinet chooses. I'm sure they're gonna say something about that later. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the commitment of all countries. This applies both to the direct consequences such as global warming and climate change, rising sea levels and their impact on the global availability of food and water, as well as on the indirect consequences such as instability in certain regions and the refugee flows that result from it. Moreover, geopolitical instability is already occurring in regions with water shortages due to human intervention, such as Spain, Iran and Jordan, but the effects of climate change are further compounded. And Europe, Russia and China have a rapidly ageing population, while in Africa and parts of Asia and South America the population is growing enormously. Something that can also lead to greater migratory flows. The Netherlands cannot do without cooperation with other countries. The great flow of refugees that Europe has had to process in recent years cannot be solved as a country alone. You have to work together for that, and we can only do that if we don't let each other play us against each other. This cooperation is just as much needed when it comes to the surveillance of our external borders. Physically by stopping human traffickers and making agreements with other countries, as with Turkey, but also digitally. The example of the Russian operation to hack an international organisation based in the Netherlands makes it painfully clear that the rules-based world order we want to see in practice is very limited. What is the situation with regard to international agreements on the reception of refugees elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u96	Mrs Jorritsma quite rightly attaches great importance to international cooperation, including in the areas of migration and refugee protection. At the same time, she asked the cabinet about the arrangements for receiving refugees elsewhere. Now, at global level, we are working on the UN Global Compact, including refugees, in which we are working towards greater solidarity among ourselves in the protection and reception of refugees. The reality is that the majority of refugees are in the neighbouring countries of war, often in precarious situations. Compact assumes that there should be more solidarity in terms of more financial support, but also a part of refugee invitation policy. This does not mean equal distribution between all countries, but also the EU will have to take a share. Does Mrs Jorritsma endorse this in conjunction with agreements on supporting refugees elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u97	That is a very complex problem; let us be clear about it. I am most in favour of combating irregular immigration as quickly as possible. That is what the agreements with these countries should be able to be made about. At the same time, of course, we are well aware that if you want to make agreements, they are always agreements between two parties or with multiple parties. That means it can never be a unilateral imposition. In fact, we will also have to help those countries with the reception that will then have to take place in the region. In many cases it is not always about political refugees. It's very often about economic migration. Then we must try to get these people back to the countries they came from or to create the basis that they no longer have to leave. So you're gonna have to work with that. I think it is too easy to think that we should be able to cope with large quotas in Europe. I'm worried about that. Of course, we should go to a regulated migration policy where you bring in people on invitation. I think that's very good. Then we also have to look at what these people can do and whether we use them economically. That's good. You're just gonna have to catch some political refugees. I understand that, but I'm also concerned when the situation becomes of a magnitude that we socially can't cope with. Then we also have a big problem and then you and I can say it nicely to each other, but if the people in the country do not accept it on balance, we have a completely different problem to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u98	My point is that if you want to make agreements on combating illegal migration, something must be done about it, namely to make it legal for refugees who need protection. You are asking what progress has been made with the agreements to receive refugees elsewhere. Well, the message is that almost all refugees are already being received elsewhere. We are talking about whether we are prepared to bring some of the refugees here, and we are talking about peanuts in view of the 65 million refugees worldwide. Only then can you say: we are also doing something about the fight against illegal migration, because we are not running away from responsibility for refugees. You are talking about large quotas, but are you prepared to take a serious look at a substantial share that the EU should make in these agreements on the reception of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u99	First of all, I will wait and see what the cabinet will say about this, because they will undoubtedly have to deal with it thanks to the fact that questions have been asked about it. It's a little too easy to talk about a substantial part right now. Frankly, I'm afraid your substantial part is greater than mine. I think so, because I cannot explain it very well if, for example, we were to receive as much as we did a few years ago. It's not going well. So we really need to think about how to catch people. And I say to you: of course we will also have to deal with political refugees from time to time, and perhaps you should include them in those agreements. I think that's very good, but then it's about how manageable it is, how we regulated it. Can we really stop unregulated migration? Because if we can't, it's getting harder and harder to organise regulated migration. In short, it's complex. I wish the Cabinet much strength. I think they're still working on it for a while to get it right, but simple solutions aren't here. Nor is it the solution of the borders closed, because about 40 years ago the borders were closed and then I myself crossed the border illegally. That wasn't difficult, can I call you in?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u100	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u101	I have not yet heard Mrs Jorritsma start with numbers that she would find acceptable. She doesn't have to come up with anything that's gonna be much less than what we want. The point is that the VVD Group is prepared to think about this and to look honestly at it, because until now it is only about non-committalism, including at the EU level when it comes to invitation policy. If you look at the numbers, it's no big deal because it's noncommittal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u102	I think you are really failing our country in what we are doing in this area. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u103	Mrs Jorritsma spoke about our efforts for multilateral organisations and said that NATO and the UN are important. I agree with her. Then she says that because of an unsafe world we also have to invest in defense. Yes, we are talking about North Africa, about major problems there, economic but also ecological. I am thinking of the water crisis that is likely to be very large there in 20 or 30 years' time, and I also see it as an engine for migration. I also agree with what she says about defence efforts. We are thinking of an additional effort in the field of development cooperation, particularly in North Africa. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u104	I can very well imagine that we are going to focus our development cooperation in particular on tackling these kinds of problems. Whether it immediately means that the budget has to be increased again, we can discuss that. That is not the issue at the moment. But I would say that we need to look very closely at how we can contribute to tackling water and drought, where we are specialised. The Netherlands is good at that. By the way, I think we are already doing that, but perhaps we can do even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u105	That would be a good idea. This cabinet has already increased its efforts in the field of development cooperation. As far as I am concerned, this is a trend which we must certainly continue in the light of developments as you are now describing. I hope you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u106	These things always depend on how things are with the rest of the country, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u107	I hear Mrs Jorritsma talking about climate refugees, climate change. It sounds like GroenLinks, but this doesn't say Mrs. Strik. It's Mrs. Jorritsma, I think. I think it's very special. Mrs Jorritsma expressed her concern about the reception of large continents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u108	Quotas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u109	Quotas. Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. At least I am pleased, because she says she does not want unregulated migration. But if it can be regulated, she says, "Come on in." Or do I misunderstand that? I see Mrs. Jorritsma shaking her head non-verbally. May I conclude from that that you also have concerns about the UN migration agreement? This is going to open the borders to hundreds of millions of Africans who are going to be followed by hundreds of millions of Asians.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u110	You asked questions about this to the cabinet. I'll wait and see what they're gonna say about that. What I read about it is certainly not the case. I still think that if there are political problems in a country and people cannot stay in that country, then it cannot be that we are not at all prepared to receive such a refugee. It can't be. We have never done that before, and I hope that this country still wants to receive political refugees from time to time if it really needs to. Of course, preference for reception in the region, but if necessary, the Netherlands will always have to be able to accommodate political refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u111	The UN migration agreement is about migrants and I am not talking about refugees. That's a lot different. I think it is remarkable that Mrs Jorritsma refers to the government, that she does not have an opinion of her own on this matter. You have to have your own opinion on this, don't you? You have to be able to bring it forward. You can just say that here, you know. You can say anything you want in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u112	Ma'am, I don't think it's our turn at all in this area. Anyway, you've asked questions about it. There will undoubtedly be an answer to that, and I am waiting for that too. We are used to discussing these things more closely in the House of Representatives and taking positions on them. I think the House of Commons still needs to talk about that. Then I think it's perfectly fine that they make the exact arrangements there. In any case, I assume that the cabinet will not approve it in such a way that what you fear is happening, namely opening doors and 'come'. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u114	Mrs Jorritsma is now saying something interesting, because she says: that should be discussed in the House of Representatives. But when a debate was requested, it was also your party and all the coalition parties and several other parties who did not support the debate request. They didn't want to talk about it, because they just know how sensitive it is. We now have General Political Considerations and we can simply raise any subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u115	I said what I have to say about it and that is not that all the doors should be opened wide, I thought. Mr. Chairman. Of course we can be proud of our own country and I am. I'm proud of our own country. I think I'm a little less afraid than Mrs Faber. I am proud of how good we are at it, but if we are not prepared to step over our own shadow and come to the best solutions together, we end up divided. That also means that we have to work together a lot in the country. Especially in the case of major complex issues such as climate policy and also the pension issue, although we sometimes find this slow and unfortunate, unfortunately depending on the polder, we are that typical Dutch system. But without the polder, we cannot do so because we do not have the support of the major stakeholders, and we believe that this is important in these problems. It cannot therefore be achieved without the involvement of as many actors as possible. Hopefully we will not then be held hostage by the same polder or that the polder will forget the people in the country, who are, of course, the main stakeholders, and continue to attach too much to their own interests. What is the state of play on both dossiers? When does the government expect results? And what can you do to apply that ginger piece in particular again? In practice, the truth is not with those who deny climate change, but it is not with those who call for us to change our lives today. She's not with the people who are calling us to close the borders. She's not with the people who call out that we can take everyone here indefinitely. So that requires subtle approaches. Can the Prime Minister say again how both subjects are being flown in such a way that ultimate attempts for the widest possible acceptance are also being made or are becoming more likely? Mr. Chairman. The truth, and in practice the solution, is often in the middle. It's not easy getting out of there together. But it's our expensive duty. I am pleased that four parties that differ very much have been prepared to find each other in the common belief that you have to solve problems together. And I hope that the cabinet will succeed in continuing to use this method successfully on the international stage. That is necessary to make sure that as many people as possible really feel that things are getting better. And it is also necessary to ensure that the Netherlands is a beautiful, a fine, a prosperous and pleasant country to live your life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u116	With Mrs. Jorritsma I'm excited about poldering. The Wassenaar Accord, which Wim Kok has worked very hard for, has brought great prosperity to our country. We now face enormous challenges in terms of the labour market, pensions, climate. Does Mrs Jorritsma think that the cabinet is showing sufficient force to ensure that agreements are reached in that polder? 'Cause I still have some doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u117	I have a feeling that at the time the cabinet was not the driving force in making that social agreement. With all due respect, it was employers and employees together who were the driving force there. I would like workers and employers to use that strength again to actually conclude these agreements together with the government. I must confess that, apparently, that is more difficult than it was at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u118	What advice does Mrs Jorritsma have to the cabinet to play a constructive role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u119	My picture is that they're doing an awful lot of work. And yes, we don't read about that in the paper. It's called poldering, you know, they do that in those little rooms with all of them, and then they come up with a result. I think there's a limit to poldering. When that limit is reached, the cabinet must also say out loud: we were willing to do this or that or all of that, but yes, the polder does not want and then we have reluctant dogs; then we have to go over it. Then it has to be decided in politics. The tricky thing about pensions is that they can't actually do that, because we're not just about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u121	Madam President. If Mark Rutte was a luxury car, he'd have been declared a total loss a long time ago. But for a Prime Minister, he says that he is just his job to collect as many scratches as possible, hoping that some things are going well now and then. Say Mark Rutte as Max Verstappen. And, it may be said, even after eight years of government, the Prime Minister shines as if he were still as tight in the paint as when he started collecting scratches. The real butses appear to be mainly for his riders: first the PVV and the CDA, then the Labour Party and now it seems especially D66. The State elections shall draw up the damage report and determine the daily value. This first full government budget would be an excellent opportunity to increase that value. The budget is for all of us and for all of us, says the title, but is it? It is nice to be able to talk about this here today with the Prime Minister, his cabinet and colleagues in the Chamber. I say to the cabinet for her first birthday: congratulations. I understand that I am not adding immediately: and for many years to come. Nevertheless, we look forward to the Prime Minister's treat in the break with interest. Madam President. All economic signals seem to be green for the government at least. More growth, more income, less debt, fewer people on the side. But ruling is never easy, not even in times when prosperity is beckoning but calamity is threatening. As a historian and politician, this Prime Minister knows this very well. Only ten years ago, our country and the world trembled under the greatest financial and economic crisis of modern times. The crisis was the symptom, capitalism was the cause of the calamity that would attack us and the rest of the world from then on. And which still makes us poorer today than if we had not been at the time the playball of banks, investors, stock exchanges and multinational companies, with their irresponsible greed and shortsighted vision. What kind of budget could we have had if we had not given capitalism the free hand from the 1990s on and realized in time what the nature of the capitalist animal is and what its consequences might be. Madam President. This summer I was in Trier at a birthday party of the man who was born there 200 years ago and spent his life trying to understand the nature of the then young animal. In spite of his life motto: doubt about everything, Karl Marx was pretty sure that the nature of capitalism makes recurring crises inevitable and that we would feel so, too, the people who have hit the least, always the most. That Marx seems to have begun a second life 200 years after his birth, he owes above all to the inability of others to declare the colossal crisis of ten years ago without identifying capitalism as the root cause. And that is why, in a time of apparent prosperity, disaster can strike again now. After all, ten years after the crisis, the nature of the animal has not changed. Let me give you two examples. First of all, the banks. For years, ING illegally washed colossal amounts of white and abused Rabobank's high rating for low-by-ground manipulation of interest rates. Both banks were allowed to buy off their misdeeds. Only a few bankers left, often with money; none appeared before the courts, no one was convicted of criminal offences and none disappeared in prison. How can I ask the Prime Minister? And is that right? Meanwhile, our banks are participating in an international bancair plot of tax avoidance and tax scams. They behave exactly as before when, driven by short-term profits, massive bonuses and failing supervision, they let the entire financial system run into the soup, at the expense of the taxpayer and at the expense of all the people who saw their job and their future go to the moon. Banks, ten years after the crisis, still appear to be dangerous. Especially as long as we do not separate their function as a utility bank for daily savings and payments from their function as a business bank in casino capitalism. The De Wit Committee proposed this shortly after the crisis, but the international banking lobby has been able to prevent it so far. And if banks have a semi-public function for saving and paying, why don't we tie their bizarre top salaries to public standards and allow bonuses, even though the bankers are screaming murder and fire? What does the Prime Minister think? Second example: as before the crisis, the government is still pampering the big money, rather than chaining it, with a big padlock on it. With the abolition of the dividend tax, the Prime Minister Unilever wanted to lure from Great Britain to the Netherlands. When that group put him in his shirt helplessly, the Prime Minister did not report to Noordeinde Palace to offer his resignation but asked the top of the business on the coffee at the Catshuis. Coffee and cake, you might say. A few moments later, it turned out that the freeing-up of money was still largely put in the pockets of shareholders and multinationals by means of a lukewarm additional reduction in corporation tax. This brings us back to a far below that of the neighbouring countries. That's like chunks of meat throwing at the wild animals, hoping not to be eaten themselves! Ten years after the crisis, that is essentially the liberal ideology of this Prime Minister and his cabinet: if we are not generous enough for the big money, it will look for another place where it gets more and more and more. The economic and financial top layer loves it. But if everyone had been allowed to vote on the motion of censure in the House of Representatives, the Prime Minister and his cabinet would have been completely lost by now. Now that can happen next spring, if in the provincial elections the coalition loses its minimum majority in this Chamber. Are we gonna let it get that far? Or are we listening to the voters for a change in time? In any case, I would ask the government to give this Chamber a chance, through a separate proposal, to express an independent opinion on the proposed excessive reduction in corporation tax. Can the Prime Minister promise me that? Madam President. Begging is choosing, even for us here today. Why does the 2 billion-dollar windfall go to the big money and not to the big needs of society: more nurses, more teachers, more police officers? And less fines on being sick, less charges for tenants and less study fees for students? Are we going to increase the purchasing power of the 20% lowest income less than that of the 20% highest income, or are we going to reverse that? On the other hand, do we continue to spare the great abilities or ask them for a more reasonable contribution to society? Do we continue to pick housing corporations with the landlord's tax or free up that money to build much more especially affordable homes? Do we insist that people with disabilities have to work in business or are we making room for social work again? Are we going to continue the market forces in care, or are we going to take back control, to keep hospitals open and public, to solve waiting lists in the ggz and to tackle the problems in youth care? Do we prefer to put more money into our army or do we focus on improving our international diplomacy? Are we going to further reduce public debt or are we really doing something about the debt burden of 1.4 million households in the Netherlands? Are we making the Netherlands, in short, even more liberal or more social and sustainable? On all these points, this budget chooses. And it is clear that my group is making different choices. What these are have already been shown by the SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party in the Lower House, where we have submitted our alternatives to the government. In summary, these include people over multinationals, teachers, agents and workers in care over investors and banks, and affordable living and a fair climate policy. I'm very happy about that. A left-wing opposition that joins forces against right-wing policy is more likely than any one for themselves and inspires people who want it to be better and more social. On November 10th we are on Dam Square with all those people, and with our trade unions, when they are going to demonstrate for a social Netherlands. The social state of the Netherlands, which we received shortly before the budget from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, tells us how much this is needed. There are remarkably large differences in the assessment of our country's direction, related to education and income. "Consciousness is determined by society," said Karl Marx 160 years ago, and Kim Putters notes that this is still largely the case today. Most educated people think it's going in the right direction, but most of the lower-educated people don't think it's going in the right direction. The life satisfaction of the last group has fallen over the last ten years, while that of the first group has remained the same. Below this difference in consciousness are great differences in social being. Eight out of ten Dutch feel healthy but only six out of ten of the lower educated. People with low education and low income are therefore significantly more likely to die and live in worse health for years than the rest. They live much more often in less-quality rental houses than in residential housing, in which people with more education and income live. The lower education and income, the less job security, and the higher the risk of debt and poverty. It may seem normal for right-wing ideologists, but it's unfair! Madam President. These major contradictions in society also contribute to the growing alienation of society and, above all, of what we decide here in the Binnenhof. According to the SCP, people with low incomes and less education have much less confidence in government, parliament and justice than those who are doing much better. People with less education and income need a referendum more, because their confidence in parliamentary democracy is getting worse. The Prime Minister likes to be there for all Dutch people, but in reality people who have been less affected don't believe that anymore. They experience a growing social division and see the government no longer as an ally but as a representative of those who are already doing well. Madam President. In this Chamber, my group draws attention year after year to the income and wealth inequalities in our country. We think it's high time for justice. That's what's missing now. The top 10% of income in the Netherlands receives 23% to 31% of total income, depending on the measure. The differences in wealth are much greater than those in income. They are bigger with us than in any other OECD country, with the exception of the United States. 10% of Dutch households now hold two thirds of the total capital. This budget does nothing about this colossal distortion, which could, for example, be achieved with a different capital tax. Why don't we do that, I'll ask the Prime Minister. Madam President. Last year, on our proposal, this Chamber asked the government for a clear reduction target for reducing child poverty. Only the PVV group voted against. Just so we know. A year later, the government hasn't finished its homework. Now we are waiting again for advice from research institutes, while every year without action is a lost year in the fight against this national disgrace. Can the Prime Minister tell us today when his government is ready to do this job? How many steps have we taken to ensure that in one of the richest countries of the world no child will have to grow up in poverty and at least every child will have the chance to make something of life? It's time to deliver, Mr. Prime Minister! Then there is the question: when will this government finally set a social minimum for the inhabitants of Bonaire, Saba and Statia? This Chamber has been asking for this since 2016. How hard can it be to give these 25,000 compatriots what all other Dutch people are entitled to? Madam President. In presenting this budget, the Minister of Finance pointed out that the Netherlands and therefore this budget is sensitive to geopolitical instability. We've got that left over. The United Kingdom is confusingly leaving the European Union, which itself is becoming increasingly entangled between the urge to become a superstate and the desire of Member States to regain part of their sovereignty. The rule of law in many Member States is under attack, large companies dominate decision-making in Brussels and militarisation threatens what should be a beacon for peace and security. Brute rulers in Turkey, Iran and Saudi Arabia are allowed to do so if it fits in with the geopolitical chess game. Russia and America are playing with fire in Eastern Europe and Syria, throwing their weapons. East and West are running into a new Cold War. Russia is suspected of violating the treaty against chemical weapons, the United States, with NATO in its wake, threatening to terminate the medium-range missile treaty, threatening their return to Europe. Last year, the Prime Minister said that the Netherlands cannot sign the hopeful UN Treaty on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons, despite the promise in the government agreement that the Netherlands will actively engage in a nuclear-free world. A motion to examine whether this treaty is really working with the NATO Treaty and the Non-Proliferation Treaty, I held up at his request. In the meantime, fortunately, the House of Representatives will continue to discuss this issue with the government, so that we can ask this Chamber to continue our motion until next spring's European reflections. However, I already strongly appeal to the government to take a stand against the loss of international nuclear weapons treaties and other vital international conventions, including the European Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe. We cannot afford a second Cold War within one generation, let alone a third World War. This summer was the hottest ever and how we enjoyed it! There's nothing wrong with hot weather, but there's a lot of danger of going wrong if we don't curb the unnecessary warming of our planet. The damage will mainly fall where people are already struggling, but it will also hit us, if we do not give full gas to reduce C0 emissions and make our production processes cleaner, our energy consumption less and more sustainable, and our consumption patterns differently. If we want to turn the tide, we have to take the big polluters national and international and get the people, here and elsewhere, on board. The latter requires, in the words of my colleague Lilian Marijnissen across the street, a policy based on national and international climate justice. This means: fair sharing of burdens rather than unfairly knocking them down on the population and leaving the big polluters out of sight. They're supposed to be billed for their years of malpractice. Then it can succeed in preventing unnecessary disasters. But where this budget shows whether and how this cabinet is actually pursuing climate justice, I ask the Prime Minister. Madam President. This government has been there for a year now, with the emphasis on "sit." Little has been done and what the budget says is in the barrel already tastes acidic. This budget really does not belong to all of us and to all of us. The ideological direction of this cabinet prevents that from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u122	Back to the climate. I understand the SP supports the Climate Act. Living without gas is already going to be priceless and the costs are mainly due to low incomes. My specific question is: does Mr. Kox prefer to join this climate hysteria or does he want to ensure that the low incomes can live properly? That is the question that is going to play in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u123	Madam President. Mrs Faber can ask adorable stupid questions. I say it this way, because of course she also knows that there is no answer to the question "Mr. Kox goes along with the insane people who make insane proposals or support me." Look, the problem is, Mrs Faber, we sometimes share the criticism of parts of society, but you close your eyes for the rest. You think problems go away when you look away, but it's not like that. The climate warms up. It warms up to a large extent by events that we cannot influence. It has been for millennia. But part of it does warm up the climate because of our influence. We can do something about that. And I don't understand how a party, however right you may be, can be so stupid to say: we look away from the global warming that we ourselves have in control, and then we'll choke on the murder, we and others, and blame the Muslims, who will have done it. How can you be so stupid that you refuse to recognise that there is also a human influence on global warming? Why do you not respond optimistically like me and others with: let us at least do what we can? Whatever else the volcanoes do and what else the sun does, okay, that's not what we're talking about. That's what our dear Lord is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u124	I wonder who's stupid around here right now, honestly, but all right, I'll come back to my question anyway. The question was: if you have to choose between the low incomes to make a decent living or if they have to spend that little bit of money they have left, mainly on gas-free living, what choice do you make? That's not a stupid question. It's a simple question. It's not woolly either. Just... who do you choose? Do you choose those low incomes to make a decent living or do you say: we prefer to go gasless?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u125	When you were on your way to the interrupting microphone, I already gave you the answer. My party opts for climate justice, which means that we should not let the costs fall on the population, but should place them where global warming is caused, in the case of the major polluters. I asked the cabinet whether it shares that view of my party and of many more parties that we should take care of that. Indeed, if we do not get the population involved in our fight against unnecessary warming of the climate, then it is a disastrous battle. That is as disastrous as what the PVV group is doing, looking the other way and saying: nothing is happening to us. So no, I don't choose... You're not the one who prescribes me between which to choose. It's not a game here. It's serious politics here. I would advise you, and I would advise the PVV group, to look further at what is going on, what influence human beings have on the climate, and try to respond positively to it for once instead of saying: we do not see it, so it does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u126	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u127	I can conclude from this that Mr Kox may choose, but he does not want to choose. That's a big difference. In addition, the climate has changed since Earth existed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u128	I told you, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u129	I think I have the floor, Mr President. That the climate changes, it has been for centuries, for as long as the earth exists. But that is done under the influence of human beings, which is not necessarily recorded at all, because the CO production is 95% natural CO. In addition, it is also so... You mentioned the warm summer we had, which was wonderful, such a warm summer. At least we agree on that. But the last warmest summer was in 1823 and then it was 0.2% lower. I don't think there were any factories back then, there weren't any cars around like this, so I'm just saying. Anyway, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u130	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u131	Yeah, I'm gonna finish. Sorry, Madam President. Then he says: the costs must be borne by the big companies. Minister Wiebes said in the Lower House that the cost of the energy transition will be left or right with the citizens, because the big companies will simply charge them in their prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u132	Madam President. If that will be the government's answer to my question whether this government is going to apply climate justice, yes or no, if that is the answer, then we have a problem with this government. I have to hear that first, but I must say, Madam President, that if I hear Mrs Faber as a true believer proclaim how wrong the whole world is about everything related to warming, then I think that many Muslims would be jealous to believe so fanatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u133	Mrs. Faber, but really a very small stimulant, yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u134	Madam President, Mr Kox is challenging me, and I can respond to that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u135	Yeah, but I'm keeping the order here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u136	You're absolutely right about that. Well, I can tell you, Muslims don't need to be encouraged to believe at all. It'll all work out, and it'll all work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u137	You don't either, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u138	I beg your pardon? Well, I'm not a Muslim, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u139	Then may I interrupt now? I think this discussion is going to be ruined. I'm giving Mr. Kox the opportunity to conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u140	It was clear to me, Madam President, that Mrs Faber is not a Muslim but a fanatic. A fanatic in her faith is at least to mention them. I meant that many Muslims could feel inspired, but worse than you, I don't have them in mind, Mrs Faber. But I wish you every success in your life. Madam President, I was finishing up. This budget is not a budget for all of us and for all of us. The ideological direction of this cabinet prevents that from happening. In my opinion, this budget increases the contradictions in our country, while most people want less contrast and less division. That fits the Netherlands, with our standards and values. That is why, as a left-wing opposition, we counter the plans of the cabinet, on and outside the Binnenhof. As it should be, our democratic rule of law can only exist if there is and remains a lasting balance of power and opposition. I believe that the Prime Minister and I can agree with each other, despite our great ideological differences. And that makes it easier for him and his cabinet, I hope, that he will not receive any support from us today for his budget. Too bad, but unfortunately. But as always, we look forward to the reaction of the government. I have yet to answer Mrs Faber. She has asked a question and I will give her one example of the effectiveness of development aid. In 2016, there was an outbreak of yellow fever in Angola. It skipped to Congo. In no time, hundreds of people were dead and thousands of people were ill. 50 aid organisations worldwide, together with the World Bank, joined forces to inoculate 30 million people in a few months. The cost was 32 million. Those were the costs, and that saved millions of people's lives. Now there are two possibilities. Saying, "Good riddance," why did we do that? Or that you say, "Thank you so much for getting us to do this." It's just an example, Mrs Faber, but if you don't give other people anything, then you won't give them a healthy life. I think there are enough examples to show that, despite all the criticisms that can be made about development cooperation, results are being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u141	Today we have the General Political Reviews and I hear Mr Kox saying that the SP will not support the budget of this cabinet. That will come later, I think, later this autumn, but I think it's quite something. What exactly does it mean that you cannot support this cabinet's budget? If we look at the breadth of investment, Mrs Jorritsma has also done so in society, and yet also at how wide income and living standards are rising in our society, what exactly makes you say: this is all so serious, I cannot support the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u142	I have mentioned a dozen points where the budget makes a different choice than my party. In my group's view, this is a choice which does not reduce the contrast in society, but increases it. And I have indicated to you that these contradictions lead to a split in our society, that people who have been relatively good at it say: it is going well, while people who have not been relatively good at it say: it is not going well at all. This has an effect on the way we think about our society. That is an extremely dangerous trend and therefore my party does not support this budget. This budget could have been different and should have been different, but I am not going to go over it. That's what you and your coalition partners are about. This budget makes the wrong choice. It is not a budget for all of us and for all of us, and that is why I reject this budget. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u143	A budget allows a cabinet to rule. It will often be the case that parties do not recognise themselves in implemented policies, perhaps not even in large parts of them. When you tune a budget, you actually say: we don't want you to rule anymore. That's the message. My party has also often voted in favour of budgets, while there have been many elements that are not part of our vision of a good society. Yet you say: government rule. I think it's a big deal. You mention a number of examples which I believe are part of ongoing policy. There is also real investment in the fight against poverty. They're investing in families. Investment is taking place across the board. You should say that you very much agree. However, you say that you are going to coordinate the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u144	I understand that Mr Kuiper is going to vote in favour of this budget. His party has committed itself across the street to the coalition agreement and thus to this budget. I understand that. I do not call you on that either. That's your choice, but you can't deny me my choice. I'm not in that coalition. I do not share this coalition agreement. I think wrong choices are being made. You can say that we need the whole budget and that we cannot therefore vote against it. I should like to point out that various parties in this Chamber are voting against budgets in good time. Above all, you should not forget that the government has the opportunity to choose and make certain choices, after which another party may say that it does not participate. I congratulated the Cabinet on its first birthday, but I did not say: and for many years to come. No, if it's up to me, this cabinet goes away. But that's what the Cabinet is about and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u145	Finally, Mr. Kuiper and very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u146	Of course, you are free to vote against a budget. Go ahead. I think it is quite a lot, even for an opposition party, for you to vote against a budget because you do not find enough of your own party programme in the government agreement and in government policy. There have been many parties here who have jumped over that shadow of their own and have nevertheless supported the possibility that the government can rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u147	I see no reason to support a budget that you disagree with as a political party. Fortunately, all this is provided for in our legislation. Mr Kuiper knows that too. If this budget is rejected by a majority of this Chamber, the country is still not closing. We're not America. The country goes on, but the government has to leave. That is the result of a budget that is not being adopted. That sounds as clear as day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u148	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I now give the floor to Mr Brinkman. I note, Mr Brinkman, that, depending on the interruptions, you can only continue your speech after lunch. I want to suspend at 12.55 p.m. because we have Wim Kok's memorial at 1 p.m. I see that Mr Brinkman agrees. Well, here's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u149	Madam President. This encourages colleagues not to interrupt. That's a privilege you usually have at your first speech in parliament. Looking forward to it, this might be the last one. Thank you for the floor. When I started with the Haagse Machten more than four decades ago, the Netherlands wasn't that good anymore. Fortunately, decisive coalition cabinets, starting in the eighties of the last century, have been instrumental in getting our country back on its feet. It was often blood, sweat and tears, both at the Binnenhof, but certainly also for the population. Criticism is part of a real democracy, especially in ours that has become more powerful. After all, most people are glad that even after the 1980s they continued to work to get more people to work and to reduce the number of people unable to work. Together with companies, our country managed to resurrect the economy regularly and to successfully expand our international orientation. Health, education and well-being are at a jealous level worldwide. We can make these kind of happy observations here thanks, among other things, to the commitment of more than 2 million Dutch people working daily for government and care. Most of our countrymen work in these sectors. And for all that, in 2019 we will raise more than 300 billion euros in taxes and premiums. Year by year since 1998 collective burden pressures have increased and by 2021, as a result of policy, 27.5 billion more in two decades. That's right, then you've got everything together! Therefore, somberness should not be the first selfie that we shoot at this overall picture of collective efforts. My smooth journey along four decades of ups and downs on and around the Binnenhof is made possible by the handy blue booklet on the economy and public finances that the Cabinet gave us on Princess Day. We basically support the budget proposal for 2019 presented on Prinsjesdag and subsequent years, in the hope that it will not be just figures and plans. After all, many future types of elections can still produce short-circuits. The sooner the plans presented have been dealt with by Parliament, the more confidence the electorate can not only have in the good intentions of this cabinet, but can also, above all, be satisfied with the apparent result. In the meantime, let's not confuse that blue book of the careful penny guard we know so well from our benches with the eponymous work, in which the Dutch Patriciaat periodically presents itself. The director of the Central Planning Bureau has just said that we should not be blinded by purchasing power cards. The Minister of Finance has recently been told that the tax estimates are wrong year after year. This month, the PhD student Wimar Bolhuis calculated very sharply that electoral promises and the reality of the bill at the Binnenhof often lie far apart in the detriment of the first. Don't get me wrong, the world and society are more than just a series of numbers. Our CDA group is not too gloomy about a gini coefficient either. This is, after all, an average figure which is certainly not unfavourable to the rest of the world. Buying power plates above zero around arithmetic is ultimately just a picture of reality building. The facts are usually different, because per person and circumstances differ. The key question remains, therefore, how to overcome the barriers to those who are left behind. Adding well-meaning new generalities to our complex control system is more like creating new hurdles for them. As well as not everyone around us is poor, lonely and needy, there are also people on the so-called good side of the line who do not pass by misery and disaster. More individual assessment and treatment are better to develop different talents individually and with each other than to optically make each one above zero in opportunities and outcomes in an equal approach system. Last year, on this occasion, this Chamber therefore called on the cabinet to finally become more concrete in order to help solve the money worries and other concerns of poor children in the street rather than keep sending them from locker to wall. With megatons, the cabinet is capturing CO reduction targets, but it does not even seem to want to commit itself to an annual measurable task of helping some 100,000 or 200,000 of the 300,000 poor children out of this downward treadmill without falling into new rules. Don't leave that challenge alone this time, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm asking you through the chairman. It is also about your credibility! Representatives of various political youth organisations at Buitenhof recently debated the position of youth. Older people usually want their offspring to have better than and in any case as good as they will. At the state of our prosperity, that is quite a challenge for the coming years, but it is worth all the troubles! I am not talking about this grandfatherly exclamation, but about the observation, after seeing Buitenhof, that the learned so-called youth debate is relatively strongly focused on study funding. There is also other youth to which the Binnenhof should focus more, in cities and villages, in technology and care, behind computers, at sea or in the air, for example. And this increasingly separate and undermined society is entitled to offer young people a better future perspective than a continuous experience of drugs, ecstasy and other mischief. The cabinet is now working on sugar, fat and cigarettes. Why do the other addictions mentioned by us come so little into the picture on the road to a healthier society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u150	Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u151	Thank you, Madam President. I am particularly pleased that Mr Brinkman is bringing out young people at one of his last speeches. He says we should be careful with all kinds of addictions. He also mentioned drug experiments and such, I think. What is the opinion of the CDA Group on the forthcoming law on weed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u152	I haven't seen anything from the Lower House yet. We will assess this, not only on the basis of the rules that the coalition agreement has set itself, but also on the basis of the way in which it could be implemented in practice, if that law were to come into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u153	I agree with Mr Brinkman. We haven't seen the weed law yet. At least we know that an experiment has been devised. Since you indicated that we should be careful with all kinds of addictions, we may be able to give a profit warning to the Cabinet in advance. Mr Brinkman could also take part in this. That's what I was hoping.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u154	I have already said a few things about it on previous occasions, not to everyone's satisfaction, but it was clear. I thought I should say something new on my last route along the Binnenhof, so that's why I didn't start on this subject, at least not now. Madam President. To govern such concrete and consistent, as I just pointed out, it must be done. In our view, civil confusion is not about changing the way in which we choose and are elected or appointed. No, it is about more permeability and credibility, and therefore more simplicity and greater implementing power within our bureaucratic knitting. This gives citizens a better understanding of their tangible decisions than through fine grinding of ideal political views on the redistribution of power in a country that is stuck with minorities. The Netherlands isn't that crazy and we shouldn't make it. In the meantime, not only Leiden is being overrun by students and tourists. Let us simply restore the non-academic workspaces and not always focus on the individual and special in State and society, nor on forms and procedures. It is about content and the everyday reality of people. Too much letting go of that orientation, gives silence and dislike as a result, without being able to settle it as an agreement to an Inner Court decision by staying away or otherwise absent. In short, let us be more serious here and on the other side about whether our representatives are as representative in practice for the various groups, regions and practical interests as we pretend on a daily basis. In addition, there is a strong public tendency to define "integrity" of our parliamentary judgment more and more as separate from any concrete experience and/or connection with a company, industry or institution. As a result, there is a risk of a deterioration of sufficiently broad popular representation and a frightening image of debates that are increasingly conducted independently of the real reality in the Buitenhof at the Binnenhof. Here we all fit more intensive self-examination. So this last social question cannot be overcome by the pleasurable observation that Dutch people feel statistically quite happy, on average. Let us celebrate this as the success of first people, institutions and businesses themselves. I am happy to note that our country is doing better in the longer term and that there is therefore no reason to doubt the possibilities for successfully addressing the challenges for the foreseeable future, including the governments. About how we can take care of each other more and better not only for ourselves but also for others, libraries are full of writing. Augustine wrote about it: "So if justice is put aside, what are kingdoms other than great predators? By the way, what are rogues other than small kingdoms? Such a gang is also a group of people, it is led by the authority of a chieftain, it is held together by a treaty of solidarity and the spoils are divided according to the rules of an agreement. And when such an evil company grows up by joining a large number of wicked people so that it also occupies territories, establishes a permanent seat, acquires cities and subjugates the people, it takes more openly the name 'rich', a name which apparently does not get it because its greed has been taken away, but because it has also acquired impunity." That's why the answer that a prisoner pirate gave Alexander the Great was also so witty and hit. The king asked the man what inspired him to make the sea unsafe, and said boldly and arrogantly, "Just what inspired you to do it all over the world! But because I do it with a small ship, I am called a robber, while you, with your great fleet, are called a ruler!" Madam President. I am not putting this image here as a character of our fortunately not so predatory and reasonably stable and verifiable social and government system. But let us be vigilant and thoughtful, because there are dangers ahead and both the loose electorate and the fluent institutions are really looking for firmer beacons in the storm winds of our time to curb those dangers. Not every tweet solves problems in a structural way, even though it may make us feel better for a while. Regularly, despite the happiness that scientists attribute to them are angry, compassionate, sad or cynical, they feel inhibited in good works or are lonely behind the geraniums. Sometimes they are alien haters, but at the end of the day most of them are ordinary people with their everyday concerns. Objectively, the comparison of our government with a raiding gang is in any case flawed, also because you cannot argue that parties looking for voters should not try to get each of their tastes out of the state grape, which is also necessary for more dualist considerations to raise increasing objections to the tendency to sacrifice careful, practicable legislation to fistful government agreements. Now that the cabinet is being cautious, but still pointing out that, in addition to priorities, the budgetary limits are beginning to require more explicit retroactivity, the question becomes more urgent how to reverse the unattractive image of all kinds of undermining activities and at the same time a bumbling tax administration and UWV, excessive privacy protection and too slow a legal system. The cabinet is working hard with letterbox companies. That deserves support, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u155	I notice that Mr Brinkman is talking about 'extreme privacy protection'. I think back with melancholy to his colleague Hans Franken, who was always in this Chamber when it came to ensuring more privacy in our legislation. Is this an amendment to the CDA's political group position? Does the CDA think that the legislation of the cabinet to which it is a part of has gone out of control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u156	Yes, because in the eight years that I was allowed to lead it, this group has repeatedly claimed and acted accordingly, that if we were to get in the way of tackling improper use and fraud through privacy protection, we would have to do our best to change that. This has happened, for example, in the recent debate on the Wiv, but it is also about the question of the functioning of the UWV or the Tax Administration. So that cannot be new to your ears, but I would certainly like to read it to you again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u157	There is, of course, always tension, or there can be tension, between what the government wants to know about citizens and protecting them from too meddling and arbitrary government. We have built up a beautiful tradition in this, also under the leadership of the CDA Group, as I said. In fact, we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have set out the criteria that legislation should comply with. Does Mr Brinkman see it as an important value for citizens to be able to protect their privacy, including vis-à-vis governments, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u158	Yeah, but not to protect malice. Mr Franken never said that here either. I understand that the CDA group is not going to propagate that either, at least not under my direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u159	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u160	You can never know in advance whether this is about malice or not. Of course, legislation must be effective, but it must not always be at the expense of civil rights when it comes to privacy. Those are the criteria we have drawn up here. I hope to get the CDA involved once in a while in order to keep looking for a good balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u161	I am glad that the honourable Member is using the word 'balance'. They're criteria, so plural. There will always be a balance in our rule of law, in the hearing and hearing that is taking place, because you do not have to cooperate in your own condemnation. I'm not gonna hurt that at all. I am just saying that we have been going crazy for a number of years now, or are threatening to go crazy at least. Mr. Chairman. I told you, the cabinet is working hard with mailbox companies. This deserves support, but why are frauds like those on which Nieuwsuur has been operating not being dealt with as quickly as recently? We understand that the Tax Administration's computers cannot be improved in an instant, but storage and subtraction are still added and changed at the Binnenhof in an instant. The cabinet can decomplicate this more quickly and must use the rest of its reign for this purpose, rather than abandoning new balloons from time to time, even at the penalty of restricting its credibility. It should not therefore be said that this is only an interest of a few coalition parties, but that this is a matter of general interest. So that is pain first for all coalition parties and probably the whole shattering political spectrum. Resolve election promises to next generations with irrecoverable claims on the State. In return for less collective spending and less collective generic burdens, there will be greater personal responsibility for people for choices in spending. The upcoming climate plan is a better practice area than a sunny climate law, so you can no longer read the symbols through the shadows about the concrete measures. Madam President. In the context of decomplication and the general interest, we politicians should still agree to give each other a little more dualism in the practice of the Binnenhof. It is important to answer the concrete administrative and legal questions more quickly and accurately in more freer consultation with each other around the Binnenhof, and thus to make the distinction between governing and controlling better again, and not to remain stuck in the image of the current political profit and loss account in the case of majoritying. This applies to the fate of the animals in the Oostvaardersplassen, but also to the aircraft at Schiphol Airport. You can say, "Don't fly here," but where is it? Several laws on Groningen are coming along here, but is flax after gas, Google or anything else behind the papers and shaking scaffolding? With the more than 8 million cars there are now, the question is why the tram and the metro should not start driving at a higher price than free. There are poignant examples of political pastimes at this point, while the people fall off the platforms and the cars for a red cross above the road are waiting for a meadow with a roaring engine. I will now end with practical examples of this kind, but they are compelling for the future. So we are asking the cabinet how sustainable the additional proposals for infrastructure, justice and security are now. They're not going off the table at the first sigh of budgetary counterwind, when they've been lying on the back mem for so long? Madam President. The cabinet must now first come out with the other side of the coin where the price of our new climate is concerned. It is well known that an earlier cabinet on something like a travel fee as an appendix to earlier comparable and understandable, because necessary environmental objectives have been lost. We shouldn't get caught up in that again. Why don't you ask Mr. Nijpels? The judge should also leave that responsibility to the legislator. So no symbol legislation here, but concretely measurable, affordable and practically feasible measures for citizens and businesses. Do not say that a coal power plant closes, while windmills have to be dripping on uncertain areas of land or sea, and heat pumps so to speak put half your house and household budget on stilts. Without a tram in the region of Leiden and elsewhere, there is no point in closing roads, because the climate here is not going to do everything by bike. So let us look further than our wise guy is tall and use our common sense more. Those who want too much at the same time in this wide area are at risk of falling under that hope. If, in the general interest too, we act gradually but decisively in this area, our representative democracy will be able to cope with a subsequent election result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u162	At the risk of Mr Brinkman not being able to complete his speaking time in time, I would like to ask a short question. You say, "Let's use our common sense." Yeah, who's against it? At the same time, you say: let us not upset too much. My question is whether Mr Brinkman has enough sense of urgency. Everyone, including the Planning Office for the Environment, the Central Planning Bureau and the Court of Justice, indicates that we need to take more concrete measures and that we need to increase the urgency, because we need to meet the 55% reduction target in 12 years' time. So we can say that we should not overdo it, but what, according to Mr Brinkman, is 'use of common sense' when we are able to achieve those objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u163	One of the things that I have constantly advocated, even during my parliamentary time, is that you should not talk about construction here so quickly, but one time perhaps it is to drive investment and help make the homes and other buildings energy friendly. That helps a lot, but there's more. I put my question to the cabinet and made my comments here, because I am not talking to climate tables but to the cabinet. I'm asking what the Cabinet is doing with those records. And I also said, because I knew that it was likely that you would come up with these questions, that I find them not only understandable, but also necessary. It is only a question of actually being measurable, affordable and feasible. You can say that this is a subjective concept, but it is objective that the large mass should take the fall for it. We also have a responsibility for this, not only for expressing objectives and ambitions, but also for practical management. That, Madam President, is something which I do not think necessarily needs to be ruled by majority coalitions, which I am still with you, by the way. Minorities can also be involved, as long as they do not take an intransigent attitude inside, but also outside any coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u164	Short. And finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u165	It's important over and over again. I would like to say that I hear Mr Brinkman say that he is certainly committed to achieving these objectives with concrete measures which also lead to a fair sharing of burdens. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u166	Yeah, but you'll get that answer after I see those measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u167	Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u168	I'm trying my best to be ahead of my time, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u169	No, I think you'll just... I'll stop at 12:55. If we continue immediately, you can continue your argument. Maybe that'll get even more impact. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u170	With a lot of interruptions or impact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u171	Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u172	I would like to draw attention to De Nederlandsche Bank's analysis that large companies pay relatively less for the climate objectives than small companies and families. Does Mr Brinkman agree with me that this is unfair and that large companies should contribute equally to the climate objectives, as much as families and small businesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u173	Yeah, it sounds trusting, but of course it's about how to do it practically. As far as I am concerned, we are not just going to talk about blast furnaces, but I think it is a good example. Of course, it's not just a matter of turning on another stove. There is more to the transformation of the production process. Then you can say that it takes a while before it is exactly the measure of your statistics, but I would prefer this to be put into practice in IJmuiden and the surrounding area. The same applies to the discussion about windmills at sea, but further away than directly off the coast. It'll take a while, but it can be. Now let's give each other some confidence just like we used to when we went to natural gas. At that time, Mr Lubbers and colleagues were able to do that easily and quickly, because we Dutch were a little more accommodating. That's less in these days. We have to take that into account, don't we? You cannot take a motion here and say: do we do so in IJmuiden or Leiden or anywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u174	Finally, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u175	Sure. In concrete terms, the Nederlandsche Bank advocates a tax on COen emissions, indicating that at the same time economic growth is being stimulated. I am very curious to see how Mr Brinkman looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u176	Then we, as citizens of this country, whether or not we are a senator, should find out how I do not say 'or 'that is passed on in consumer prices. Then we're gonna debate that again. Let us not pretend that something is free or that the account is not deposited anywhere. Of course, he'll end up with you and me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u177	Mr Brinkman, you can answer Mr Koffeman's question. Then you may continue your speech after we have had Mr Kok's memorial and the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u179	I would just like to make a comment on the question of CO levies and the charging of the polluter. I understand, of course, that Mr Brinkman says that it is a very complicated situation that does not change overnight. In terms of climate justice, fueling a passenger car at the moment only generates €40 excise duty and fueling a Boeing 737 zero excise duty. Does Mr Brinkman agree with me that it is extremely unfair to allow large polluters to continue to refuel totally duty-free in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u180	As a CDA, we have never ruled out any tax base. We always see all kinds of side effects in the small tax proposals that will still be discussed. Look, you and I may be earning just enough to pay for a bit more expensive plane ticket, but a lot of people would care for another trip abroad when they can finally make it. Most people think of the words of the late Mr Den Uyl about the DAF'je who had to turn in his poker. I am afraid that we will be talking about this for a few more hours under the leadership of this vigorous President. Well, I'm not afraid of that, actually. I think it's a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u181	I look forward to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u182	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. Mr Brinkman, you may continue after the interruption we are about to have because of the commemoration of Wim Kok and then the lunch break because the Prime Minister must be present in the House of Representatives. I see you still have a lot to do. Then we can continue the discussion with pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-3.u183	I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes until 1 p.m.
