ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Wassenberg's question to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the news that toxic PFAS......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's quite a mouthful indeed. The practice is that there are questions about fluorinated hydrocarbons such as GenX and PFOA. These are substances that are very carcinogenic and are now found all over the Netherlands. Each time it is hit and each time the substances appear to be spread more widely than we thought. We've talked about it a lot in the Chamber. Those substances are found everywhere in the Netherlands, not only in Dordrecht, where Chemours is located, but also around Schiphol, Sliedrecht, Papendrecht, Helmond, Eindhoven, Moerdijk; the total list is longer. This is partly because GenX is being processed and apparently discharged, but also because fluorinated hydrocarbons are used in extinguishing water used in industrial fires. That is where water with carcinogenic substances is put out. Seventeen municipalities have therefore slept a cry for help and asked for national policy. This problem is too complex, too big, too serious to be dealt with in a fragmented way. What is the response of the Secretary of State to this distress call from the municipalities? By the way, municipalities do not always carry out research on pollution before earthmoving takes place, so there is a risk that contaminated land will be moved instead of being cleaned up. It is often annoying for municipalities to find contaminated land, because that means high costs for the clean-up. These costs cannot be recovered from the polluter, because Chemours and DuPont refuse to pay the consequences of pollution at Dordrecht, Sliedrecht and Papendrecht. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the polluter should pay? What is she going to do to force these companies to pay? I also have a question about the toxicity of the substances. RIVM applied certain exposure standards, but the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, presented much stricter standards last summer. The new standard for PFAS will be fifteen times as strict as the standard used by RIVM. How is that possible? Shouldn't we be able to sail blindly on RIVM standards? What is the basis for RIVM to question the EFSA standard? Finally, does the Secretary of State agree with me that the strict standard of EFSA should be implemented here as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the letter from the various municipalities. It seems very important to me that we really get a good picture of where the various pollutants might be. So I am also willing to consult with local authorities to map that out. Mr. Chairman. A question has been asked about the contaminated soil. How do we get to 'polluter pays'? We have a regular conversation with the Chamber about that. There is always a broad premise in the Chamber that the polluter should pay. Mr Wassenberg's question is: how can municipalities then recover their costs? In the letter that you received from me for the general consultation External security matters we are talking about at the end of January, I said a number of things about how these costs can be recovered. The legal framework for this is Title 17.2 of the Environmental Management Act. The competent authority for the company, in this case the province of Zuid-Holland, can make a cost statement if the situation meets the requirements of the law. We also find out that there are still things missing from time to time. We also had a discussion about, for example, financial collateral if companies go bankrupt. This is also the subject of research, which deals with how we can make the polluter pay as much as possible in this way. The intention is to fill any gaps in the law. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of standards. They are indeed a very important reason for this question. That's what the article was about. At the request of the European Commission, EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority reviewed the health limit values for PFOA and PFOS. RIVM has indicated that it has scientific questions on the new scientific method used by EFSA for its new proposal. In addition to the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany have also asked questions to EFSA. The scientific debate must also be left to the scientists. It will take place. EFSA is expected to publish its standard later this year and to respond to the scientific discussion and how it is incorporated into the standard it will eventually publish. But if EFSA publishes that standard, the Netherlands will indeed have a fact in the question: how do we translate that standard into the Dutch situation? That is what we are going to do at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Alkaya. I'm wrong. He's gonna be here. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	The Secretary of State says that the province as competent authority can recover the costs, but the pollution is in the area of the municipalities. The municipalities are therefore unable to recover the costs. Apparently, the province did not play a role in this, which makes it possible for municipalities to recover these costs. Chemours and Dupont do not pay, and so the municipalities are in the hair. In addition, I had asked for a national approach, because these municipalities actually say: the problem is too big to leave it to all these different municipalities, more than 300 in the Netherlands. It is a national problem and it must also be tackled nationally. The minister says he's talking to everyone, but what the municipalities are actually asking is: come up with a national direction, pick this up nationwide! It has been thrown across the borders of the municipalities and the province, but these substances are now spread throughout the Netherlands, either through companies working with GenX or with PFAS, or through the extinguishing water. Wherever you're going to do research, you'll find them almost everywhere. So you're going to have to deal with this nationwide problem nationwide. Then I have another question about that fire-fighting water. I know that the fire department is also looking at alternatives to that fire-fighting water with those carcinogenic flame retardants. Shouldn't we implement those alternatives as soon as possible? Shouldn't we put a ban on extinguishing water containing carcinogenic substances as soon as possible? 'Cause there's another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr Wassenberg is right that the point sources are in the picture and that we also know that there is also a very diffuse spread of these substances across the Netherlands. That may be because teflon pans have been used or because gore-tex clothing has been used. All this can contribute to its spread, as well as to the extinguishing water. So it is indeed a national problem that also calls for a good approach, so that not every municipality has to invent the wheel independently. That's what the conversation's about. I think that next week, when we have the discussion on the Soil Supplementary Act, we will discuss it even more extensively. But I share Mr Wassenberg's point that this is not a local problem that is in one municipality and that we can say: otherwise it does not play. So I also see the need for a number of things to be agreed with each other on a country-by-country basis. The cost story of the municipalities can and must be included in a possible cost story of the province, but it is up to the province to assess whether such a cost story is being started. Oh, yeah, and the fire foam. Fire foam with PFOA is banned in the short term. This is covered by REACH, and we are talking about 2021 and 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	Finally, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	Is it not possible to introduce that ban on extinguishing water in the short term? Because I told you, the fire department already has an idea that there are alternatives. A report has also been published on this subject. And the Secretary of State says: it is indeed a national problem; there is a diffuse spread and there are point sources, but that is why you really have to leave this to the municipalities. What I want to ask is: can the Empire, the government, not handle this and take over the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would be happy to see if, through the colleague responsible for the fire department, we can have a discussion on this with the fire department, or perhaps they can switch to alternatives that exist on a voluntary basis. I'd be happy to have that conversation. I have just said that we are talking about a problem that also requires a consistent policy at national level. To this end, of course, I must also have talks with the local authorities. I can't just take over from them one way or the other. But those conversations about how we can handle this country properly, I'm going to have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mrs. Van Brenk, 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	I read the article with interest. I noticed something in there that scared the hell out of me. It says: the final directive is still being published, but it says: "Now it is possible that RIVM will still be able to influence the proposed directive." I think we have had a little too often lately that an investigation has been influenced by others. So I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how that's possible. Is that gonna be patched up a little bit? What am I supposed to learn from this article?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	RIVM is the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment. They conduct their discussions on scientific grounds. It is very good that they are holding discussions with another scientific institute in this way, because that way we always get the latest state of science incorporated into the standards. RIVM is therefore having a scientific discussion with a fellow scientific institute, one might say. This scientific discussion will ultimately lead to the conclusion of the norm. EFSA will also identify the issues raised by RIVM and thus by the scientific institutes from Denmark and Germany and how they dealt with them, in all transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	Would you like to ask a second question, Mrs Van Brenk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yeah, if you can. It has just been said: the standard is in proportion to how it is now fifteen times higher. The question is whether, even if the Secretary of State says that it is really happening at a scientific level, it is being tried to bring it further down, because in the Netherlands we are actually dealing with that border too lightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	The only interests of RIVM are public health and the environment. If they ask scientific questions from the responsibility they have there in the scientific approach used by EFSA, that is something RIVM does or does not do on its own. In other procedures they may not ask questions, but here they have seen reason to ask questions. It's a scientific discussion. There is no political link in any way. I think it is important that this scientific discussion can also be conducted in all purity. That is in the best interest of all of us. The only interests of RIVM are those of public health and the environment, and in this light, of course, they have asked questions to EFSA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	The Secretary of State indicated that she would like to map out the problems in different municipalities in the Netherlands. That is good to hear, but as D66 we are concerned about whether these municipalities have enough knowledge and expertise in their homes and whether they are sufficiently stimulated or perhaps have enough incentive to raise such a problem with possibly polluted soil. How are we going to ensure that municipalities know what they are dealing with and take the right steps which may not always be financially beneficial, but which are still necessary for public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	Municipalities, of course, have the primary interest in ensuring that their inhabitants are well served. If there are concerns about the situation in that municipality, the city council will certainly call: hey, do we in our municipality have a good way of identifying where the problems are? In addition, I think it is important that we do not allow all the municipalities to reinvent the wheel all by themselves. There is a national centre of expertise and my conversation with the local authorities is precisely aimed at looking at it at first. The point sources are easy to locate. We also have the question of diffuse distribution. How are we gonna get a good look at that? What are the options for action? Once the standard is in place, once we have been able to translate these standards into Dutch policy, we have to look at what results and what actions need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	I am glad to hear that the Secretary of State is now saying that she really wants to map out how big this problem really is. I have asked questions about this before, and I have been waiting a long time for the answer. It's been postponed. It seems that it is just, even if you look at the pieces of the PFAS Expertise Centre about measurements, very widely distributed. In the answer to previous parliamentary questions, the Secretary of State wrote that there will be no national soil standards for pollution with PFAS, because it is up to regional or local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	And now the question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	Is the Secretary of State saying we're getting national standards on PFAS pollution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	The Authority is now in the process of defining a standard. Mrs Kröger shakes off no, but she does. The EFSA's gonna come up with that. If that standard is in place, I think we should look at the way in which it should be translated into Dutch policy. I think that we have become increasingly aware in all the reports and in all the facts that have come up in this whole dossier that it is not a local problem, but that it is a widespread problem. Then it is also logical that we should ensure that there is a national, consistent approach. So I'm going to talk to the municipalities about that. I think it is important that we get a map of where the point sources are, get a picture of each other and make good use of the expertise available. In my view, Mrs Kröger and I do not really differ in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	I stress the importance of adopting a national approach, because we cannot and must not leave this to municipalities. It's playing everywhere. But the real problem lies in the European system, which should protect us from these substances: the REACH database, in which all substances are registered. A month ago it was found that 70% of the 21,000 substances registered therein are therefore 15,000 substances that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	The question is coming, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yeah, now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	That lacks crucial information...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u29	... such as the possibility of carcinogenicness of a substance. As long as we haven't dealt with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Laçin, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u31	...we can do a lot of national and municipal work. Only, what is this Secretary of State going to do to improve the European system...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u33	The last question is a clear question. I share the concerns, too. Specifically, what am I going to do? I signed it up to discuss with the Environment Council in a week and a half. I do believe that this European REACH system is an improvement on previous ones, because at that time we had no information at all. But we need to get those files sorted out. I would therefore like to know from the Commission what it is going to do about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u34	I still have a question about the dispute between EFSA and RIVM. The Secretary of State says that's a scientific discussion. However, the Authority is always mentioned as the authority and it is always said that there should be no doubt about EFSA's opinions. Should the precautionary principle not automatically apply the strictest standard when there is a dispute between EFSA and RIVM?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u35	The standard has not yet been published. Which standard should be published by EFSA is the discussion we are discussing now. I think it is very good that scientists have a careful discussion with each other before the standard is published. If EFSA publishes the standard, it should be the starting point for the Netherlands. The EFSA is indeed the institute that we have designated for this purpose. One time Mr. Wassenberg is standing here with questions about satsumas and perhaps he would have preferred EFSA to have published something else. Now he says: I would like us to follow EFSA. As far as I am concerned, we are always setting independent scientific institutes, and the standards they then publish must be used as a starting point for our policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u36	Secondly, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u37	I understand that this standard has, in any case, been presented unofficially. That would have happened in Poland in August. However, there is still an official publication to be made. Then it's officially the norm. However, the fact that RIVM is already saying that it is sticking to its old position already indicates that there is new information from EFSA that RIVM does not comply with. We are already talking about explanations at RIVM or EFSA as to why there would be a difference. So that new standard is already there, albeit not yet officially. Why isn't it just being followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u38	I hope that Mr Wassenberg will forgive me for not acting on the basis of unofficial standards but waiting for the official standard to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you.
