ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	Good morning. The next item is the report of the general consultation on ICT developments, following the general consultation on 14 December 2017. The first is Mr Middendorp of the VVD. He has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The State Secretary of BZK has great ambitions in the area of digitalisation. The VVD strongly supports this. Digitalisation requires innovative and groundbreaking measures, sometimes large strategies, sometimes small steps and, above all, a lot of learning, because the digital world is constantly moving. Over the past ten months, I have talked to many people with unique experiences, ideas or well-meaning advice. The scientists, specialists or people from the business community who come by sometimes have bad, sometimes very good ideas. I know that the Secretary of State is also very busy talking to the digital world. There are opportunities for the government to learn, opportunities that cost nothing. For the VVD it is important to emphasize this and to include it in the planning in the coming months. I would therefore like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the increasing importance of digitalisation, including in the area of public service provision;]] [[Whereas government digitalisation projects often take the same approach and approach with varying degrees of success;]] [[Considering that an adequate government digitalisation agenda calls for innovative and groundbreaking measures in the field of ICT and related work processes;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the digitalisation agenda also with the aim of experimenting with a small group of external ICT experts who are considering a government ICT project selected by the Ministry and then making concrete proposals for its design and implementation within a specified time frame,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-511]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Before the recess, we talked extensively with the Secretary of State about ICT developments in the government. At that time, I stressed that ICT must be reliable and should function continuously, but also that the government must ensure that all people in this online world come along. The D66 Group was pleased that the Secretary of State acknowledged this in detail at the time. However, I hope that he will take a more active stance on the Ombudsman's recommendations on MyGovernment.nl. Can I count on that? I would like to say a few words about the knowledge of ICT in the government today. My group believes that this knowledge should preferably be present internally rather than externally. A report by research agencies Panteia and Intelligence Group states that the Empire is sometimes too dependent on external expertise and that there is still too little of new ICTs from higher education. The Secretary of State has already stated during the AA that it needs to be improved. In the meantime, a Plan of Approach Reinforcement HR ICT Rijksdienst, a very mouthful, has been published. D66 is happy about this. It is essential that the public authorities develop rapidly in the field of ICT knowledge. A number of activities are under way, but the exact implementation of many points of the plan is still awaited. Alignment and funding are required. Can the Secretary of State clarify when he hopes that this plan of action will be fully implemented? Will he, together with the Minister, make an effort to ensure that this is done during his term of office? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. Mrs Kuik and Mr Van der Molen refrain from making a contribution. I'll see if the Secretary of State at BZK has an opportunity to give his response to the motion submitted. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the contributions of the members of the Chamber. Mr Middendorp just started telling his story that it is very important that we have good contacts with the people outside the government. Let that be exactly what I am doing and to which I also warmly invite the Chamber, because the government can learn a lot from the world outside of it. Of course, it is important to separate chaff and chaff, because there are a lot of self-appointed ICT experts and there are a lot of people who really know about it. It can't hurt, especially in a world where the government has to struggle to get in and keep people who have ICT knowledge, to put your ear to your ears and see how things are going out there. That's exactly what I'm doing at this time. I have also indicated this in general consultation. I talk to a lot of people. I've been to Startup in Residence in Amsterdam. I talked to StartupDelta. I speak to entrepreneurs who are active in the field of digital government. I have to say, the more people you speak, the more the picture grows of what the odds and possibilities are. And they're immense. At the same time, I have also sought to coordinate with my colleague from EZK, Secretary of State Keijzer, who focuses on the digital economy, which, of course, has a lot to do with each other: the way in which we organise our economy in terms of digitalisation. Personally, I'm mostly involved in the digital government. I have also tabled a legislative proposal to the Council of State, on which I have previously informed the Chamber. I intend to continue contacts with experts who do not necessarily need to be business people, so that they can also give substance to the agenda that I myself have drawn up. In the operative part of the motion, Mr Middendorp says: "In shaping the digital agenda, the government is also asking to draw up a plan to experiment with a small group of outside ICT experts who are considering a government ICT project selected by the Ministry and to make concrete proposals to that end within a specified period of time. You have to look at it this way: there are a number of projects running. In all these projects, of course, I have conversations with all kinds of people. I am actually doing what Mr Middendorp asks. I am not going to make a separate plan specifically allocated and in which experts would then be assigned a role. I have now given an impetus within the Ministry itself by releasing a club of people who are going to focus specifically on the contacts with outside. The Ministry's gideon gang: dynamic young officials who are going to connect the world from outside and the world from inside, the government. That's kind of a continuous process. I can assure Mr Middendorp that in every project that is to be presented I will ensure that we bring in knowledge from outside as well. It kind of depends on what kind of project it is. The nature of the project also determines which people you want to talk to. I have a very strong ambition to find that connection, precisely because of the remark made by Mrs De Boer that the government is vulnerable in some sense and that recent ICT projects have shown that it has not done well, both in process management and in outcomes. As far as I am concerned, that should not be aimed at a concrete plan with which I have to come forward. I am now telling you that in every project that is going to play the knowledge that is needed for that, even on the outside, I will test. That can be one time in the form of a sounding board group. The other time this can be based on informal contacts. If I could read the motion as I see it now, I could take over the motion. But I would add that it should not be the case for Mr Middendorp to appeal to me to come up with a plan on how to do that. I would almost say that we have enough paper. It is now a question of implementing plans. I expressly offer the Chamber the opportunity to make the contacts I have available to the Chamber in order to go through the same process. Some of you are already working on this, but I think it is extremely useful in the light of what awaits us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Middendorp, can you live with the Secretary of State's reading on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	In the reading of the motion, I hear two things. First of all, it gets very big, because everything involves people from outside... I said in my speaking time: the VVD appreciates that very much. We are all in favour of developing the ambitious agenda set out in the coalition agreement in the near future. So this motion was not meant to give further input there. That's the first I've heard. The second thing I heard is that the VVD doesn't think it's necessary to make plans. This motion is about an experiment with something very small, one small step. We actually wanted to give that to you, in the sense that it is important to see if you can just ask a group of people from outside for a project, what they can get in six months' time. So on that second part I am not entirely clear whether or not there is a question going out for something specific or not, but that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Middendorp, we are not going to have the whole general discussion about this. We're not gonna start another discussion here. The Secretary of State has made the proposal to take over your motion. Then we cannot have another debate with a number of interruptions. My question to you was: can you live with the Secretary of State's reading, because under that condition he can take over your motion. If you cannot do so, the Secretary of State will have to give a different opinion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	Okay. The first part of the motion, of course, I can live with it. And I think the second part is different from what it says, so no, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	Okay. The answer is no. Then what is the State Secretary's opinion on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	I believe that the commitment I make goes far beyond the question put by Mr Middendorp. I say that I want to involve knowledge from outside in all these projects. I am not going to commit to the form in which this happens, because how this governance is regulated depends on every project. But I am very open and I am also motivated to search that connection with outside, because I have seen in some projects in the past...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	However, after Mr Middendorp's remarks, would you still like to take over the motion? Or do you say, well, in that case, no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	No, no. I've offered to take over the motion with the explanation as I gave it. If Mr Middendorp doesn't think that's good enough... I have shown that I believe my commitment goes beyond what he asks in his motion. Then I must advise against the motion, because it specifically says from the seat of the Secretary of State how each project should be conducted. I would say that the structural involvement of outside knowledge in projects goes beyond an experiment. I am not against experiments, but I would like to make a commitment to broaden it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	Obviously. Last time, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u15	The commitment to do it smaller is what I'm looking for. To make it wider, I'm not looking for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u16	You want the motion put to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yeah, like written down, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u18	Okay, the motion will be put to the vote and the State Secretary's verdict has been dissuaded. That brings us to the end...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr President, I had another question for Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u20	Sorry. There will be another answer to a question from Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u21	I have already promised earlier that I will send my Agenda Digitalisation and also the governance of digitalisation to the Chamber for the summer. And that's where those elements come in. Very specific with regard to ICT experts within the Empire: that is the minister's portfolio. Sometimes it gets a little mixed up, but in this case it's the minister's portfolio. I indicated earlier in the AO that the Minister has made a whole plan of action to involve more ICT experts in the government. That is quite a challenge, because it is tight, especially in a growing economy. But it is necessary that we also have sufficient and high-quality people within the government to be able to meet the challenges that exist. So I can make that commitment here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you. That's okay. Then we will complete this VAO ICT developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-3.u23	The Middendorp motion submitted to this VAO will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
