ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee for his questions to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, whom I would also like to welcome, on the vulnerability of websites of small and medium-sized enterprises processing privacy sensitive information. I call Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, at the request of Dataprovider, de Volkskrant published their analysis of the quality and data security of websites of small and medium-sized enterprises. This showed that 350,000 websites in the Netherlands are vulnerable to digital intrusion. One in four of these sites even runs the risk that malicious people will have direct access to the database with all customer data. Now that the sharper European privacy law, the General Data Protection Regulation, has recently come into force in the Netherlands too, we are facing a major problem here. While larger companies have been preparing for the GDPR for a longer time and have improved their cyber security, evildoers will have an even greater tendency to look up smaller and medium-sized companies and loot them empty when it comes to data. Does the Secretary of State think that she and small and medium-sized enterprises are sufficiently aware of the scale and urgency of this issue? Is the recently established SME Service Desk working properly? Has the desk been doing more than helping with a security scan? Are there any concrete results yet to be reported? The cabinet has chosen to use the so-called "helpful enforcement" in the enforcement of the new GDPR. That is, we do not impose a fine, if you can prove that you are working to improve your data security. Is this combination of service desk and helpful enforcement sufficient to secure the 350,000 websites in time? Then what's timely? Can the Secretary of State give an answer to that, too? Finally, is it not necessary to prepare for the introduction of a national cybersecurity label, so that a clear standard is put on the market that web builders have to adhere to and so that you as a business customer also know that this new website meets the requirements of the GDPR today? I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As mentioned by Mr Van der Lee, on 1 June the Volkskrant reported that many websites of small and medium-sized enterprises would still be poorly secured. He asked me if we know this problem is there. Unsafe websites in small and medium-sized enterprises are a serious problem and certainly not unknown to us. It is only the case that small and medium-sized enterprises, of course, are primarily responsible for their own digital security, but since you are mostly talking about smaller companies, I am addressing this problem and, within the opportunities I have, I am trying to support small and medium-sized enterprises in improving digital security. In the autumn of 2017, it was decided to set up the Digital Trust Centre. That has a number of tasks. The first is, of course, to raise awareness among companies about vulnerabilities and to provide concrete advice on action. Thank you to Mr Van der Lee for asking these questions, because it is of course a perfect time to tell a little bit about this subject to people sitting at home listening or sitting here in the public gallery who have small and medium-sized enterprises in their family. I can make them aware of that by telling them here again about that Digital Trust Centre. A bit of news for you all is that next Friday the website will go online, so that people can also find the information. The Digital Trust Centre has two objectives: to ensure that basic measures for safe digital enterprise are available and to encourage partnerships within companies. That has already happened in Eindhoven, for example. As I said earlier, I come before the summer with a letter in which I go into the design of this Digital Trust Centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you for that answer. It's good to have another website up and running. By the way, I hope it's secure. However, I would also like to know from the Secretary of State at what time she intends to manage to secure these sites with these efforts. In order to ensure this also for the future, I would like her response to my proposal that the Cabinet should work on the introduction of a national cybersecurity mark, so that it will be clear to entrepreneurs that the new website they buy meets all the requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	This subject has already been settled in itself, but it is referred to differently. The Civil Code states that what is delivered must comply with the obligation of conformity. That just means that a website must be safe. But what are you talking about? For example, you are talking about a report that the Cyber Security Council has already offered to my predecessor, which describes what that duty of care means. Safe standards are now available for secure internet connections, secure email and encryption. As a result, industry associations in this sector realize that building a website or helping a company provide digital enterprise is not something without obligation, but also has to comply with the relevant standards. On the question of whether I can mention a time when all this is settled, I would like to say that I would like to, but I started by saying that this is about companies that also have their own responsibility in it. I try to do everything I can to help them, but in the end they have to make sure that they have their things in order and that their customers, citizens who, for example, give information about what they buy there and give their phone number and their e-mail address, know that it is safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	Another follow-up question. There is a lot of things in itself, but that is also the problem. There is no clear standard and a clear label that is also maintained and tested. I would recommend to the Secretary of State to give this priority in the national digital strategy she is working on and to ensure that we get this label in the Netherlands, so that everyone also has certainty that websites meet requirements. It's not just about giving instructions about what's possible, because that's already available enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	It is not just about what can be done, but also about what needs to be done, to ensure that what an ICT company delivers to small and medium-sized enterprises also meets the standards that are in place. If Mr Van der Lee asks if those standards are there, I say yes, they are there. For example, there are standards that secure Internet connections must meet, but the responsibility for this lies with the relevant companies and industry associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. Mr Koopmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	The Minister for Legal Protection took over a motion that was widely supported in the Chamber a while ago. This was about a rapid evaluation, already at the end of this year, of the initial experiences with the GDPR. We all have rules about how to store data. The Secretary of State is talking to Mr Van der Lee about the important issue of how to secure it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to contribute with these experiences to the evaluation that her colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, will undertake at the end of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	I have to look for that motion that has been taken over and what it contains, but I am, of course, prepared to consult my colleague from JenV, to see if the work I am doing with the Digital Trust Centre is already sufficiently advanced so that I can contribute to that evaluation. That's what you'll be told in due course by the Minister of JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	I listened with interest to the questions of Mr Van der Lee and the answers of the Secretary of State. At some point, it was about a label. I thought it was understandable that the Secretary of State said that there is something similar, but then suddenly I was reminded of the Quality mark Safe Business, which is there for the physical safety of shops. Shops can request help from the government to better secure themselves. Could there also be some kind of digital quality mark that is safe in the future, which is a bit between Van der Lee's idea and what the Secretary of State said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	An interesting idea. As the Chamber knows, I am working on the action agenda for small and medium-sized enterprises. Allow me to reflect on this and come back to it at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we begin with Mr Kerstens's swearing-in, then Mrs Voortman's farewell and then the votes.
