ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the farewell of MP Han ten Broeke of the VVD. I'll start by reading Han ten Broeke's suicide note. 'Dear President, dear Khadija, This is the letter I was hoping not to write already and certainly not for this reason. It is with pain in the heart that I leave your midst today. After nearly twelve parliamentary years, I have to say goodbye to something I have dreamed of since I was 12 years old. At an embarrassing young age I joined the VVD, because I was, well, a little too young for the JOVD. It was the time when intense discussions were held on the installation of cruise missiles. You had to pick a position. Mine did differ slightly from that of my teachers and most of my classmates. But it was at that age that the wish arose to end up here. The wish was fulfilled, but my parliamentary membership is now coming to an end. And I'm so sorry about that. 'Cause I had a lot of fun at it. Last Thursday's statement contains everything I can say about the background to my decision. And about the mistake my departure is making right now. The only thing I would like to add is that sometimes situations can arise in the lives of people in which they face each other. Each with its own truth. Then they decide to give each other that truth, to draw a line and to continue with their lives. A judgment is then still possible for imported products, and in another working environment it may also be bearable. But not in our glass house, with the dynamics of media and opinions that determine our day rhythm and where judgments, prejudices and convictions are as quickly dropped as spoken. And I didn't want to do that to my family, my friends and myself, but I certainly didn't want to do that to my group colleagues and the party I've been a member of for so long. And so I'm leaving. It was a huge privilege to be able to do this work. To have a mandate from the voters. Mine, yours, ours all. Put your ear down, but don't let it hang. The incomprehension of the difficult compromises and then the one letter with great gratitude, because a personal problem has been solved. That cold station just past Zwolle, after a speech that lasted too long. The heated discussions on Twitter during the Ukraine referendum. The beauty of being a popular representative is that you go everywhere, everyone speaks and finally learns to listen. 'Cause I, too, of course, went into politics to send. I came from Brussels because I felt that Europe should be defended differently. Not more Europe in Strasbourg or in Brussels, but more Europe in the Lower House. With various proposals, which I hope you will take advantage of for a long time to come, I have tried to contribute to this. Since then, I have lost my heart to culture, to the armed forces and to foreign and security policy. I have enjoyed the debates with many of you, the measurement of ideas, the feasibility of solutions. But in the years that I was allowed to be here, I also saw how more and more parties in this house seem to disagree less and less. To want to be. While the reality of politics and governance is that we have to come together each time. Find majorities and forge coalitions; it is the DNA of Dutch politics. Everyone sits here to cash in the electoral mandate as much as possible. But no one can do that without the support of another. What separates us is less important than what binds us: improving the Netherlands. I, too, am not confused with polarized statements, but I was most pleased by the compromises that I was allowed to make with many of you. In this sense, the compromise is not a treason, as we often hear on social media. It's land conservation. What I have come to realize even better is how well we have it in this country. When I was Parliamentary Assembly in Washington together with a small delegation from NATO, the clerk, some senators and I decided to rent a car on Sunday and travel to Gettysburg. Where the American civil war took a final turn and where Abraham Lincoln gave the best political speech ever. On the way we were surprised at the bad roads. There were bridges we thought we wouldn't find on the way back. The journey took a long time and was far from comfortable. And so this was in the largest, most free and wealthy country in the world. When I returned to Schiphol I took the bags from the band within half an hour and sat here in the Room behind my desk for 45 minutes listening to the news: the Merwede Bridge was closed, a hairline crack had been discovered in one of the pillars. In our country, fortunately, intervention is taken immediately. On the ANP news, the spokesperson of Rijkswaterstaat hurried to report that the damage caused to the transport sector by delay would be compensated. We can gloomy, chagrin and explain exactly what is wrong in our country. But the Netherlands stands out in so many ways. It's an underrated privilege to live here. Especially to represent this country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to address you one more time. I do not want to say that our country is finished. I too leave unfulfilled ideals and ambitions behind. But it is an incredibly beautiful country and I hope you can make it even more beautiful. Politically, I wish you as much satisfaction from this magnificent ministry as I have done. And personally, I wish you all the good luck and health. I would also like to express this last wish to all colleagues who make our work here possible from morning to night: the messengers, the mailroom, the catering and restaurant service, the Registry, the stenographers, the Analysis and Research Service, the Bureau of Legislation, the unsavory security, the substantive support, the cleaners and, of course, our great informers, policy and personal staff. We used to see each other more often than we saw our families. In fact, I sometimes thought of you as my family. But now I'm gonna watch you from the outside. Leave each other alone. You guys take care. Or to close in the Twente: good goan! Han ten Broeke'
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Ten Broeke, dear Han, Today we say goodbye again to someone who would have wanted to go on for much longer as a Member of Parliament. From whom the ambitions reached farther. But: in this profession you live in a glass house and integrity is the highest standard, to which all MPs must comply. And when that integrity is questioned, it affects not only yourself, your environment and your party, but also politics as a whole. It's a real shame this has to sign off on you. You who have meant so much to this room. I'd like to dwell on that. I don't know anyone who was politically committed as early as you. You were only just in high school when your political consciousness was awakened. Unlike your teachers at school, you were in front of the cruise missiles. That was 1982. You were 13 years old at the time. You just wrote that. Even too young for your party's youth department, the JOVD. So you immediately became a member of the "adults-VVD." "A little embarrassing and unhealthy" you later mentioned in an interview. Luckily, you were good at playing soccer. That's more like a 30-year-old boy, or no, a 13-year-old boy. Also with a 30-year-old, by the way. You became a Member of Parliament in 2006. You came from Brussels, where you worked. In 2004 you already threw a shot at a seat in the European Parliament. You were struck by the large number of preferred voices, almost 20,000, and a colorful campaign with a big truck from Twente. But despite the large number of preferred votes, there was no seat in it; the party had not received enough votes. You put yourself up for Lower House because you felt that Europe deserved a better fate than it did after the 2005 referendum. In your maiden speech, you said, "It is possible to make Europe friends with the citizens again." Your international orientation has always been a common thread through your political life. From the opposition, you played a leading role in achieving two major changes, one of which even achieved the Treaty of Lisbon. That was your proposal for the introduction of the orange card, which was successfully negotiated by the then Prime Minister Balkenende. And you enriched our own instruments with the so-called "Parliamentary Treatment Preservation" for which you tabled an amendment. You briefly spoke about culture and laid the foundation for the Gift Law, which you are still very proud of. But then you became chairman of the Defense Commission. A committee that was manned to your grave by spokesmen who were or were former military professionals, such as Raymond Knops and Ronald Vuijk, or at least served in military service. And you didn't have that experience. You had no idea of the differences between a general and a major, and didn't know about all those ranks, emblems and stars, or how to address someone from the military. But you did everything you could to learn that. And you did it so fast and so well that everyone thought you were a professional military. You did a great job covering that up. You were at your best when you visited our troops abroad with the Defense Commission. With Harry van Bommel, you've spent one night in a container in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-6.u3	Yeah, it's gonna be very intimate. At some point, you took off your shoes, and then things went wrong between you guys. 'Cause you were wearing goat's wool socks that Harry cut right off. He's been bullying you for years. And that wasn't the only time Harry fooled you. There was also that time when there was a debate from the Foreign Affairs Committee. That debate took place on the day that Chávez, the President of Venezuela, had died. The debate had already begun when you came in and sat next to Harry. Joël Voordewind was speaking and Harry had just been. He whispered to you that everyone had started their input with condolences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-6.u4	When you got the floor, you started expressing your deepest sympathy. On behalf of the Dutch parliament, you condone the people in Venezuela with the great loss. Harry still said it was a joke, but you were unstoppable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-6.u5	In the Chamber and beyond, you often showed yourself from a friendly, engaging and diplomatic side. That side of your character you saw back in your study, which you decorated as a true diplomat with large leather armchairs and lots of dark hardwood. But, confessed to you in an interview, you bought those Chesterfield chairs for a small price at Marketplace. And, like you said yourself, they're not even close. In that study, there was a place of honor for your personal hero, John F. Kennedy. But Martin Luther King, Nelson Mandela and President Obama also adorned the walls. To the horror of some of your VVD colleagues. Diplomat, you were when you played a leading role in a secret peace operation between Israelis and Palestinians about six years ago. You never wanted to let go of that, but you seem to be a welcome guest in both the Palestinian President's residence and the Israeli Prime Minister's residence. And after the terrible summer of 2014 you proved in the MH17 file that you can also choose your words side by side. You represented our Parliament that year in the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO in The Hague. Hundreds of foreign colleagues were welcomed here in the year in which the disaster of flight MH17, the situation in Crimea and the war in Ukraine dominated the agenda of international politics. Politics with a lifted finger, you shouldn't have any of that. Not effective, you think. But, is your firm conviction, even with a raised middle finger you achieve nothing internationally. Dear Han, I know you're leaving national politics with pain in your heart. It's taken hold of you since you were a kid. In an interview you said: "I work in The Hague, but it's not my home. That's Twente. That's my anchorage." Of course, I don't know if you're going to return to Twente or what else will come your way. But there is more to it than The Hague, which is encouraging. I may miss your long interruptions a little bit or not at all, but what I'm going to miss is your knowledge, skills and experience that you've put in front of the Chamber over the past few years. Thank you very much for that. Take care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-6.u6	This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior.
