ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport in our midst. Welcome! The next item is the 30-member debate on the growing healthcare gap in the Netherlands. Eight speakers have signed up for this debate and we are starting with Mrs Dijksma of the Labour Party. In this 30-member debate, all political groups have three minutes' speaking time in the first term. Mrs. Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. It was already in December that there was a very large article in Trouw about the growing healthcare gap in the Netherlands. Most of the time it is waiting for 30 Members' debates to be scheduled to become mustard after the meal, but unfortunately we have a subject that is as topical today as it is in December, and it is likely that it will remain so for some time to come. In itself, Dutch people are becoming healthier all over the world, which is good news, and if you compare it worldwide, the Netherlands has to do with a so-called "care gap" which is so different between people in a good socio-economic position and people in a less socio-economic position that is less large than in other places in the world. But the worrying thing we observe is that the difference between people with whom things are going well and people with whom things are going much less well does increase. If you have a socio-economic weakness, I think you have an opportunity to live 18 years less than someone who grows up in a privileged position. That is an issue for a Social Democrat, but I honestly think it will be for all of us. No group, nor the cabinet, will dispute that we must continue to pay attention to this with each other. The Minister has also sent a letter on this subject on behalf of his colleagues, which contains many proposals, recognizing the problem and starting an analysis of where this social injustice is found in the Netherlands, because that is how I would like to name it. My question to the Minister today is as follows. When I read that letter, I feel that we are on the same side of the rope, so to speak, but I would like to hear from the cabinet how we can achieve in the coming period that we really see these differences getting smaller. A variety of measures are mentioned, for example to make it easier for people to get to their GP, a shift from the second to the first line and attention to shrinking areas, where care is not always available. The Minister also acknowledges that the costs and the risk they incur may be a problem for people to have access to care. But how do I know that the proposals made by the Minister actually have an effect? That is why I would like to ask the Minister to do a few things. First of all, in the main agreements that are now to be concluded, real attention must be paid to reducing the healthcare gap. He must also report on how this is going to happen and monitor whether it actually has an effect. This is particularly true of the prevention agreement. I must not forget that we are once again hearing all the bike mothers of the Netherlands cheering together: we must be careful when feeding our children and we must be careful when combating smoking, while in those places where there is a need for money and attention to prevention, people are ultimately deprived of it or are not found. The last point remains its own risk. There too, we will have to take steps. In any case, the cabinet wants to keep the costs equal, but I ask the Minister if he sees any possibility of bringing down the costs of care, especially for people at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mrs Dijksma. An interruption by Mrs. Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u4	I hear a very firm opinion in which Mrs Dijksma actually points out that we learn from the documents that we have all actually improved in terms of health in the last 25 years and that the people with a higher income have only improved a little more than those with a lower income. And I understand from Mrs Dijksma's words that she does not agree with that and that she thinks that this difference should be reduced. But I hear her just asking the Minister. Can the Commission indicate how it intends to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yes. In a number of ways, I think you can do something about that. One of the dilemmas in the Netherlands, in my opinion, is that people who are in a socio-economically weaker position simply don't always get the care they need to help them get healthier, for example when it comes to prevention. Such a prevention agreement is an excellent opportunity, but then you must be prepared not to let it be an agreement for everyone, which is likely to bring the people who are actually doing well back into the picture, but then you must really dare to make a difference, and put your money, attention and resources on those groups that need it the most. That's an example. More room for general practitioners in disadvantaged areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u6	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u7	And more time for those GPs, too. I can go on for a while, but the chairman won't let me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u8	Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u9	It is clearly a very old-fashioned PvdA-thought, but it is also a very strange thought. The Dutch people have improved 4.5 years in 25 years. So we've all improved on it. The people who are a little more educated and have a little more income have only improved a little more. Then Mrs Dijksma says: yes, but that is not allowed. She actually says: the one has to be a little less and with the lower classes it has to be a little more and there needs to be a little more money. But shouldn't we use our money to make the whole Dutch population even healthier, so that we can all achieve the same health gain over the next 25 years? Then why take out one group when that group has also improved on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'm afraid there's nothing old-fashioned about my input. He's consistent over the years; that's right. I am not interfering with anyone, and certainly not the people with whom things are going well, to get even healthier and even better. In fact, I warmly welcome that. But I do see that if you want to influence that healthcare gap, you might need to focus your attention more on the people you don't reach easily. I think that is necessary and I also think that we are able to make the whole Dutch population healthier if we simply pay more attention to the group that is left behind. That's what I'm asking the Minister. Are you prepared to do so in your main agreements, in your prevention agreements and also in the move from the second line to the first line in, for example, the shrinking areas? Not only do "poor" people live there, so to speak, but that group is sometimes unnecessarily deprived of care that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mrs Dijksma. The second speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Hijink of the SP. He too has three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Often you already know before a child is born how great his chances of a healthy and prosperous life will be. 'Cause if you're born poor, you have a big chance of staying poor. And anyone who starts with a language disadvantage in primary school will have a hard time making up for that later on. If you grow up in a polluted neighborhood or in a fungus house, you'll have health damage for the rest of your life. We know the stories of the Drentse and Groningen Veenkoloniën, where poverty passes from generation to generation. And in recent years, the differences in our country have become larger rather than smaller. In our education, children are rapidly growing apart. We live more and more in separate worlds. Whoever has money can buy a decent house in a neighborhood without inconvenience, in a neighborhood without delays. And he can still pay his care allowance easily. But for a child who grows up in backwardness, that's not often the case. In a neighbourhood with too little room for manoeuvre children do not learn to move. In a family below the poverty line there is permanent stress and problems are much more common. Further learning has become much more difficult now that study funding has been abolished for many groups. Access to good care is also becoming increasingly difficult for many people. Older people have to go to court to force domestic help. Its own risk has increased. People who already run into high rents and low wages will also face much more expensive care. Mr. Chairman. If we want to reduce delays and differences, then the first 1,000 days of a child's life are crucial. In those first three years one child learns to eat healthy, to move a lot, to speak the language and to deal with another in a good way. If we are lagging behind in these first years, then it is crucial that we get there in time to see and tackle these problems. My question to the Minister is whether he agrees. Can he also comment on the picture that the SP has, which can actually be substantiated, that in many municipalities there is a lot of savings in the prevention of consultation agencies and that delays there are therefore greater rather than smaller? Mrs Dijksma also mentioned the fact that agreements are currently being made on how to organise prevention, so how to prevent more suffering, disease and ultimately care. The SP would like these agreements to be based on combating socio-economic health inequalities. Can the Minister respond to that? Does he agree with the SP that prevention is not only about not using unhealthy products, but that it is also about that much broader approach to combating all child retardation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I will go to Mrs Ellemeet of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr President. You sometimes have those debates that are actually very painful, for all of us, I think; painful because we have to note that a relatively small proportion of Dutch people have to bear a very large share of the cost of care because they are in a very vulnerable position. I think we all want to change that. This does not seem to be so easy in practice. In the Minister's letter, he states that we know that part of this use of care can be explained by excessive drinking, smoking and overweight. The Minister states that this explains about 25% of the high consumption of care. My first question to the Minister is: what about the remaining 75%? Do we have more information than that? Do we have a clearer picture of exactly what is causing this high level of care consumption? I would like to make an advance on the answer to that, because I think that we should look beyond care in the causes of this high level of care consumption. For example, financial problems, debt problems, leads to more stress, a more difficult situation and a worse health. This often makes the discussion difficult and the solutions too, because we not only have to look at the solutions within the care but also, for example, actively use the social domain to solve the problems. So my question to the Minister is: does he recognize this analysis and how does he intend to come to the solutions? Another point is about lifestyle; that also affects excessive drinking, smoking and overweight. Now yesterday we adopted a motion on research into lifestyle medicine and put it better on the agenda. But I kind of agree with what Mrs Dijksma says: we have to be careful that this does not turn out to be a nice toy for those who do not really need it very much. So my question to the Minister is: precisely when it comes to lifestyle and from unhealthy life to healthy life, how do we reach the vulnerable? 'Cause that's actually the hardest part. The biggest challenge lies with them, but how do we make it possible for these people to eat healthier and thus, for example, to solve their diabetes problems? So I'd like a reaction to that. Then, Chairman, the high cost of care. This continues to be a reason for an accumulation of complaints, not to go to the doctor, so that the situation continues to deteriorate and one eventually finds himself in hospital with an acute problem. There are financial thresholds; people experience financial thresholds. I get regular messages from them. Those are such tragic messages. That people in the Netherlands avoid care because of the costs, we cannot close our eyes to that. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he recognizes this problem. Does he want to do broader research into those financial thresholds that people experience? Can we do something, among other things, about the high own risk, which is partly at the root of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mrs Ellemeet talks about vulnerable groups and thresholds. She published a note of the week stating that older people should first be screened to see if they should receive another medical treatment. Does Mrs Ellemeet agree with us that there is also a huge threshold and, moreover, age discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u16	Then you have to formulate the question properly first. Because what we really want is that we know very well what concerns indeed among vulnerable elderly people, because that is what I am concerned about. The more information we have about how an operation will work out for a vulnerable older person, the better the choice that is made. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is very clear: every older person deserves the best possible care. For that, we need as much information as possible. So no threshold, on the contrary: get as much information as possible for the doctor and for the patient, so that we can give the best care. Sometimes this information will lead to the conclusion that we need to use additional care, for example in rehabilitation, because people are vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mrs. Sazias, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u18	Does Mrs Ellemeet not think that should apply to everyone? Why does the word "older" have to be behind it? Isn't it important for every human being to be screened for vulnerability and possibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u19	Absolutely. Every patient is entitled to as much information as possible. We see that among the group of older people vulnerability is relatively common. That is why I am particularly concerned about that. We must have the best care for those vulnerable elderly people. That's the least we have in mind, no matter what doctors say. Fortunately, a lot of good is already happening in hospitals, a lot of extra research is already being done, especially on the vulnerable elderly. As far as my party is concerned, we are making it possible for doctors to obtain as much information as possible, precisely because this vulnerability is very common among older people. But I agree with 50PLUS that we really want to get the widest possible picture of this vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u21	I was ready for my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u22	Your last sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u23	They're about those vulnerable elderly people that we definitely shouldn't forget. In fact, we need to pay extra attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Then we go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mrs Sazias of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. You do not want to know how much anxiety we have received from older people about this plan, older people who have felt thrown away from the labour market for 45 years and who now think that they need to return to an additional screening list within health care. When it comes to the healthcare gap in the Netherlands, you can of course see that more care is used by the elderly, but that seems rather weedy. That is, of course, a very logical matter. We're all getting older, and yes, when you get older, you're gonna need more care. So that makes sense to me. Another thing is the demographic differences and the differences for people with lower socio-economic status. The Minister's letter states that he is committed to prevention. That seems very important to us. It is strange that the cabinet does not see anything in introducing a sugar tax, when we see in Britain, for example, what a tremendously good effect that has. It's about reducing the amount of sugar in soft drinks. This is seen as patronizing, but the patronizing has also caused a drastic reduction in the number of smokers in the Netherlands in recent decades. I'd like a response from the Minister. There are also examples of municipalities that jointly address the theme of "a healthy lifestyle" very well, such as Leende. That's a very successful experiment. This joint experiment of doctors and sportsmen can be further developed in the Netherlands. It remains a problem that people with lower socio-economic status are generally unhealthy: there is more smoking, worse eating and more drinking. 50PLUS wonders whether efforts should not be made to educate skills to choose a healthy lifestyle. This starts at school; not only for pupils, but actually already at the training courses for caregivers and physicians. I understand from doctors that there is currently little attention to food and good food in the training programmes. That should really change as far as 50PLUS is concerned. I would also like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. Then I will go to Mrs Agema of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the report that 17% of insured people use 80% of the budget for care. I think we can all be proud that we managed to do that here in our country. If our parents, friends, family, children or ourselves become ill, we have a system that ensures that the costs involved are paid, and that the salaries are paid by the specialists who perform miracles. Mr. Chairman. In preparing this debate, I looked again at the group of people actually referred to in the Minister's letter, that is, a small group of insured persons, who incur more than EUR 1 million per person per year in healthcare costs. I remember the debates about Brandon and Dexter and Joep and Mick. I also think we all remember 1988. Next to the European Championships '88, in which the Netherlands became champions, our whole country was miserable about the business of Jolanda Venema. That girl was tied naked with a belt around her waist in a cell and her mother was standing there with her long coat in that room with her. We have all agreed in our country that we no longer want that, and that we want a life and a life for people with an adult body who are still spiritually at the level of a toddler. That's gonna cost money. We've got about 40 Brandons and Dexters and Joeps and Micks, and that's how we came up with it. That is something we should be proud of, I think. There are about 2,500 more people who get more care. This scheme has been in place temporarily since 2009. Or, no, the healthcare gravity funding was introduced in 2009 and the more care scheme for people who need more than ZZP 7 is still temporary. Perhaps the Minister could see if we should not go to a definitive arrangement. Then we have mentioned another group here, namely the 10,000 insured persons who incur more than €100,000 per year in healthcare costs. Those are also the people who often sit here in the public gallery when we talk about pgb, for example. That too we have actually arranged and organized fantastic well. It is a pity that a great deal has been saved in this group in recent years when it comes to counselling, day-use and so on. But we still think in our country that we should spend a lot of money on this, and I think that is very good. Then, of course, we have the last group, which the previous speakers have already mentioned. I think it's one of the most beautiful sentences I've read in the minister's papers when he writes about the last year of life: for everyone, one day the year in which life is at risk. That senior year is the most expensive. In that regard, too, we have a grand insurance system, because if you or your parents or your friends are next, then we have money to pay for those very special operations, as well as the salaries of the people who perform miracles. So that 17% of insured people use 80% of the cost is a fact. I think that's something to be very proud of. So besides the multi-care scheme, I don't have any questions for the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Then I will go to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Solidarity is the basis of care in the Netherlands: solidarity between rich and poor, young and old, high and low educated and healthy and sick. During the budget debate, I mentioned maintaining it as an important task for the cabinet. The research Trouw refers to confirms the picture that there are large differences in health between groups of people. To a large extent, this is logical because of age, as Mrs Agema just mentioned. But income and training also affect the use of care. Age expectations have been increasing among all groups for years, but for people with higher incomes a little more than for people with low incomes. How does the Minister explain this difference? Is there going to be a specific investigation to explain this difference? Then I'd like to talk about lifestyle. We say, from aftercare to precaution. The Minister rightly states that conclusions on the causal link should not be drawn too quickly. After all, poor health can also reduce labour market opportunities and thus lower income. But at the same time lifestyle also plays an important role. When children grow up in an environment where parents live unhealthy, they take it with them. About 25% of the disease burden.................................................................................................................................................................... The CDA wants a society in which we stand together and stay together. That also means that you accept that everyone has a certain amount of unhealthy behavior. It is important that we continue to invest in stimulating healthy behaviour. The CDA is therefore looking forward to the plans in the prevention agreement. Does this include education? After all, young learned is done old. With regard to lifestyle, we want to give an example: diabetes 2. 1 million Dutch people have diabetes. 90% of them have type 2, which is partly caused by an unhealthy lifestyle. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet intends to include a combined lifestyle intervention in the basic package next year. I do have a few more questions. What specific demands will be made on the training of lifestyle advisers? How is it ensured that the general practitioner pays more attention to the lifestyle, that the general practitioner uses first-line expertise in dietics and pod therapy in a proper way rather than automatically prescribing a pill? Finally, the social domain. Many health problems have a cause in the social domain. When people sleep badly due to debts, it should not be medicalized by prescribing sleeping pills. Helping to clean up debt would be better in place. How does the Minister view the project of insurance company CZ in which people talk much more to people with debt problems? Are there any results of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Please stand still for a moment, because there is an interruption by Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u31	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased with Mrs Van den Berg's story. When I listen to her, I think it's a one-on-one that this has to happen. However, my question to her is whether she agrees with me that such a prevention agreement, for example, will really have to focus on the groups of people we are reaching the worst and for which prevention is most needed. If so, how is she going to test it with me and others?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u32	I just indicated that learning young is done old. We particularly think it is important that you look at the whole group of young people and then say: you have to focus specifically on certain groups. We are happy to leave it to the people who are negotiating that prevention agreement to see how they can also effectively regulate prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u33	Then I'm gonna ask you another way. I understand that you do not want to sit in the chair of the performers, but do you agree with me that it is important, for example, that we should also be reported in such a prevention agreement how this will contribute to reducing health inequalities and, above all, to increasing the health of those who are most vulnerable? Do you agree with me that this should be made measurable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u34	In other debates I may not have put it literally, but measuring is knowing and guessing is missing. It is important to be able to learn from certain projects, i.e. to learn from each other, and to further improve things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u35	My question is whether Mrs Van den Berg believes that prevention and improvement of people's lifestyle are purely individual matters. Or does she think that in prevention we should also look at how we as a society organise our neighbourhoods and our education, how we make sure that people learn the language and can find work on time and how we ensure that children in the classroom get the right care when they need it? It's much wider than just care, isn't it? That's actually my question. When I hear what Mrs van den Berg is saying, it is only about how we are going to improve the aspect of the prevention agreements. That seems too limited to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u36	The prevention agreements are, of course, about care. I don't think you should involve the whole world. It is also about other points. My colleague René Peters, for example, always calls for a great deal of attention to be paid to the problem of debt. You have to try to prevent you from medicalizing in case there are issues that need to be solved in a different way. Colleagues of mine are certainly working on this in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u37	Yeah, I agree. But you can look at a child who is too fat and say: here is about to threaten diabetes; let's see how we can fight it. But you have to start at the beginning. The beginning is often that there is too little room for manoeuvre nearby, that there is no education in which moving is the norm and that there is no money in the house to go to the gym or the sports club. You can't treat one without the other, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u38	As I know, many municipalities already have separate programmes to support sport and so on for children who grow up in a financially difficult environment. We have also asked for specific attention to be paid to health in education, so that children themselves will get that insight much more that it is important to move and to take healthy food.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mrs Van den Berg, for your contribution. I shall now turn to the next speaker from the Chamber: Mrs Dijkstra of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Improvements in public health lead to an increase in life expectancy and average life expectancy in good health for low-income people. People benefit from that. That's a good thing. But the health gains of high-income people are even greater. In fact, they seem to be able to benefit more. So the differences are not decreasing, and that is undesirable. Several speakers have already mentioned this. I think we can all agree on that. The figures, I quote, show that in 2016 17% of insured persons made 80% of the costs in the Health Insurance Act. It's a small group that needs significantly more care. It is of course very important to pay attention to this, because the question is whether this is indeed caused by care. Does this group perhaps go more often to the general practitioner or emergency services, when there is no medical reason for it? I'd like to hear from the Minister if there's any insight into that. Shouldn't the help come from a different angle often? We also know that there is a link between low literacy and care use. One could say that sometimes care is symptom control and that we need to look much more closely at the multi-problem. Mr. Chairman. The distribution shows that young people pay for older people, healthy people pay for people who are sick and often pay for people with higher incomes for those with lower incomes. So that indicates our solidarity with our system. D66 is happy about that. However, a number of years ago, the Social and Cultural Planning Agency warned that solidarity would come under pressure in the event of increased use of care. It is therefore very important that we can reduce the use of care. It will benefit everyone. No one uses to take care of their fun, of course. Everyone has already mentioned it: prevention is an important task. In municipalities where people move more, there is less care consumption. Do the districts in the municipalities where there is less movement invite less movement? Does it have anything to do with the area? In some places, that's very clear. Is there less green, for example? What exactly does that have to do with? Can you do something about that? Mr. Chairman. The trend scenario aims to identify future societal challenges for public health and care under unchanged policies. The trend scenario now shows that the percentage of low-skilled people aged 25 and over who feel healthy will decrease in the future, while it remains fairly stable for highly educated people. That's worrying. So this is where the gap is increasing. But we can change this with policy and we will have to look for it in it. In his letter, the Minister mentions a number of measures agreed in the coalition agreement. He does not, however, give any further effect. Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about how he is going to implement these measures and specifically how he is going to use these measures to reduce health inequalities? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mrs Dijkstra. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the first term is Mrs De Vries from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We should be proud of our concern and everyone who works in it. Our care is good quality and accessible to everyone. Anyone in the Netherlands can get the care he or she needs, regardless of the disease history, age or income. Everyone gets the same care. So we have an enormous system of solidarity in our care. Healthy people contribute to the care of sick people and rich people pay more than people with less money. The VVD considers the accessibility and solidarity of our healthcare system to be important. The level of the care premium, the income-dependent contribution in the Health Insurance Act and the care allowance, the own risk and the own payments must be balanced, otherwise solidarity will be put under pressure. Mrs Dijkstra has just spoken about it. A large part of the care money is spent on a small group of Dutch people. 17% of the Dutch who had taken out health insurance in 2016 accounted for 80% of the healthcare costs under the Health Insurance Act. Health expenses also vary by municipality. This also has to do with the composition of the population. For example, younger, highly educated people often leave shrinking areas. In addition, care costs for people on low incomes or without a job are often higher. According to the VVD, the best solution is a good education and a job. Because often the same people have to do with the lack of work, low level of education or debt. It is therefore a good thing that this cabinet is committed to jobs and employment, as well as education and debt management. But it must also focus on the right care in the right place and on prevention. Some of my colleagues have already spoken about this. The VVD also believes that cooperation between primary care and the social domain in municipalities is important. Can the Minister state what is already happening on this point, but what else could happen? It is important that care remains affordable. A study by RTL News showed at the end of 2017 that 1% of the most expensive patients are responsible for 25% of the healthcare costs. The question is, are those numbers correct? According to the report, most of these people have multiple conditions and are being treated at different specialists and hospitals. There is actually far too little coordination of who does what and therefore the costs are unnecessarily high. According to the article, the Dutch Healthcare Authority also identifies this problem. According to Professor Jeurissen, the savings could amount to EUR 1 billion. How's the minister looking at this? How does the Minister intend to achieve these savings? The cabinet is also committed to preventing unnecessary care, isn't it? What opportunities does better information exchange offer in this respect? In order to maintain the support for this solidarity, we want to reduce, wherever possible, the increase in the health premium without compromising accessibility and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. You have an interruption from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mrs De Vries talks about finding a good balance between the costs incurred by people for care, their own risk and their own payments. Now we know that one in ten people avoid care because of these costs. Does Mrs De Vries therefore agree with GroenLinks that there is still some need to improve the costs that people currently make for care individually?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u45	I think you should first look at the total cost of care, so make sure that they can stay as low as possible. In addition, there are, of course, a number of buttons in the system to maintain that solidarity. I think it is important, for example, that the general practitioner stays out of his own risk. As a VVD, we are also very much in favour of this. But you should definitely always look at it as being affordable for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u46	We have to look at that and, if we look closely now, we can see that it is too expensive for some people. The care is too expensive. This leads to delay, for example when going to a medical specialist or the hospital. As a result, problems accumulate, complaints eventually increase and care also becomes more expensive for the whole of society, but the problem is greatest for those who cannot pay for care. Does Mrs De Vries agree with GroenLinks that this is why we need to improve the redistribution of costs so that everyone can pay for the care he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u47	There are actually two elements. On the one hand, how do you divide the costs? I have just said something about solidarity. I think you should have a good balance in the solidarity of those who pay more and use less of the healthcare costs. We think that balance is in it now. For people with lower incomes, of course, we have the care allowance that takes into account both the care premium and the own risk. In addition, there are also opportunities for low-income municipalities, chronic illness or disability to receive benefits. I think that's ultimately the way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you. With your contribution, we have come to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated his intention to suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u49	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport for his answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you for your encouragement to keep the debate clear in the light of time. There seems to be something else on the Chamber's agenda this day. The reason for this debate was the news in the daily Trouw that people on low incomes use care financed by the Health Insurance Act more than people on high incomes. It may sound strange, but in fact I agree with what Mrs Agema said about it. I consider that to be a very positive thing. It shows that Dutch health care is accessible to everyone, including those with a lower income. No American situation here, and we shouldn't want that either. This good access to our care is also reflected in all kinds of international comparisons. I refer, for example, to the country profile created by the WHO. It states that in the Netherlands there is good access to a close network of effective primary and secondary care providers and that there is generous long-term care. In terms of financial accessibility, the Netherlands is certainly not out of line in the international context either. The Dutch pay about 12% of the total cost of care themselves when using care, for example in the form of their own risk. This is significantly less than the OECD average. That's the positive side. There is also a negative side, and that is the side that some of you have highlighted today. Because people with lower levels of education live on average six years less than those with high levels of education. In a well-experienced health, the difference between high-income people and low-income people is even 18 years. In 2014 Professor Anton Kunst showed this problem very graphically by calculating how much life expectancy changes when driving from Utrecht to Amsterdam by train. Directly after Utrecht Centraal, where people turn 80 on average, life expectancy falls for three years, in the disadvantaged neighbourhoods such as Shallep. Between Utrecht and Amsterdam we then reach a plateau where the people are on average 81 and even 83 years, until the train reaches the Bijlmer. That's where life expectancy goes down by six years. Then it fluctuates until we reach Amsterdam Central, where 79 years is the average life expectancy. Such a ticket also exists from the metro network in Rotterdam. And so you see that also the different neighbourhoods actually lead to a completely different life expectancy. These differences are persistent. For all groups, one could say, life expectancy and life expectancy have increased enormously in recent years. But the differences between low and high education and the differences between low incomes and high incomes have remained similar. There are many explanations for this, which you have also made today, particularly socio-economic statements. That is why we call this part of health policy the policy that focuses on socio-economic health inequalities. I think it is right to point out that we are working on this in many ways. I can't be completely exhaustive, but I'll give you a few examples. I think that we should agree to look at this issue in all the debates that are going on about it and to discuss it with those glasses in the debate. But I understand very well Mrs Dijksma when she says that the Chamber really wants to resume the debate on the socio-economic health differences as a separate debate. I shall now turn to the question of how it will be dealt with in the national prevention agreement and in other programmes. I think it would be a good idea to look more closely at all these different policy programmes. For this there would be a good possibility for the Public Health Future Recognition, which is made by RIVM. Just before the summer it will appear. It happens every four years. It is also once every four years that a cabinet makes a note on health policy. It seems to me appropriate to consider separately the issue of socio-economic health differences and the question of what to do about them in the health policy paper. In this way, it can be discussed both by agreement and by programme, and we can have the debate at all on the socio-economic health differences in the Netherlands. So I hope that's a way to get on with each other. I would like to classify the answers to the questions that have been put today, as follows, with your permission, of course, Mr President. I will begin with the theme of prevention and lifestyle intervention. That is a first important umbrella to deal with a number of questions. A second point is: how do we organise access to care and what do we do for it? Indeed, quite a lot is happening to help people who are not self-sufficient in access to care. The third block deals with financial accessibility. I'll start with prevention and lifestyle. In the coalition agreement, a number of measures have been announced to promote lifestyle. One of them is to reach a prevention agreement. My colleague, Secretary of State Paul Blokhuis, gave the start last Friday. This prevention agreement covers three themes: tackling smoking, tackling overweight and tackling problematic alcohol consumption. We already know that these are important predictors of an unhealthy lifestyle that has a real effect on life expectancy, or at least on the number of years experienced as healthy. We know not only that they work on people's health in general, but also on the health of several vulnerable groups. So it's both people with low education and people at risk of addiction. Mrs Dijksma asks whether this really focuses on low-SES groups. You might want to say: it focuses on that. If we don't reach those groups, then you won't get that much more out of a prevention agreement. Where's the profit? Especially in groups with low socio-economic status. So what should the national prevention agreement focus on in particular? Especially on groups with low economic status. Agreements are made with patient organisations, sports associations, sports associations, companies and civil society organisations. During the general consultation Prevention Policy of 17 May, the Secretary of State will inform you about the state of play. But let me mention another example of something that works very preventively. Then I come to what Mr Hijink brought in, which I wholeheartedly agree with. In fact, you should say "that was also my experience as alderman of Rotterdam " that the main socio-economic health differences start about the conception. The main socio-economic health differences occur during pregnancy. Of course that has something to do with lifestyle. For example, we know what unhealthy nutrition means. But maybe it has more to do with all kinds of stress factors in that pregnancy phase. Actually, we know that better and better. Think of a mother wondering if she's gonna have her house, given her rent lag, or a mother wondering if she's gonna have her job. Think of stress in the relationship or domestic violence. We know that these things have an enormous impact on the birth outcomes with which children are born. Of all perinatal diseases, as it is called, two perinatal diseases are actually the most predictive for health after that, namely low birth weight and early birth. Those two are incredibly stress-related, we know. In short, we need to see how we can make this whole chain of birth, this perinatal chain, which is now rather fragmented, with the general practitioner first, then the midwifery care, maternity care and then the Centre for Youth and Family, much more integral. One of the cabinet's intentions is to launch a promising programme. We need to support those mothers, those parents who need it much sooner. That's a lot wider than just wearing medical glasses. The support they need to reduce stress is often much wider in the social domain. In short, we will come up with a programme on this very point. I'm really convinced that this will substantially affect those first 1,000 days. The influences of those first 1,000 days have a substantial effect on the 32,000 days that follow, with good health. In short, this is an important path for the cabinet to reduce socio-economic health inequalities. Mr. Chairman. I'm going through the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u51	That is good, but perhaps we will do so after Mr Hijink's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u52	I welcome the Minister's answer in itself, but I would like to see it in more areas. Can he explain in a vision what other causes of socio-economic health differences he can find? That is not necessarily necessary in today's debate. As far as I'm concerned, it can be in a letter later. I mention, for example, growing up in a flat, a rental house, built next to the highway, or working night shifts for people who work in cleaning. If we are to prevent people from reaching for care, then we must start at the beginning. Then you have to look at how people work, live and live. Is the Minister prepared to explain in a letter how these kinds of factors contribute to the cost of care and the damage that people suffer from their health?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u53	We can do this best with the letter I just announced in response to Mrs Dijksma's question when we could have a good discussion on this subject. I think it would be a good idea to give that broader outline. I would also like to make two comments. The first is that we are actually dealing with this issue in many programmes. This is actually my next block, but I can say a few things about it. I refer, for example, to the Loneliness programme, which is about social isolation. We know that social isolation is incredibly predictive of higher healthcare costs. In the waiting room of the general practitioner there are a large number of people who do not necessarily need care but actually something else, namely normal human contact. This is why we are committed to preventing isolation. This afternoon we present our programme of domestic violence and child abuse. We know that domestic violence and child abuse have a huge impact on people's lives and the experienced health of people. By breaking that circle of violence, you've done something really good for health and experienced health. In that social domain it is not really possible to cut with scissors. Of course, we have a department of VWS and a department of Social Affairs and within municipalities you have a department of education, a department of social affairs and a department of care, but it is always about people whose problems of life are not divided into all kinds of neat departments. The problems of people do not comply with our neat domain separation, domain layout and legal subdivision. This is one of the main reasons for decentralisation. It just means that you have to want to organize the solution for people close to people's lives. If you want to break social health differences, you will have to organise the interventions as close to people themselves as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u55	I can do this answer in the evening, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u56	Yeah, I got that impression. I therefore hope that Mr Hijink will specify his question a little more so that a brief and concise answer can be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u57	We have plenty of time, don't we, Mr. Chairman? The fundamental question in this debate is whether there are problems with people that the government needs to find a solution to when it comes to health care and preventive measures or whether our society is in some respects set up in such a way that the government creates health problems, for example when it comes to running night shifts, setting up a neighborhood or tenants living in fungus homes. That is the fundamental question which I would like to see answered by this Minister. Should we just talk about how we stick Band-Aids to problems that we identify or should we also dare to talk about how the government can share responsibility for the health problems that people encounter in their work, their neighbourhood or at school?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u58	Now we have an extremely ideological and fundamental debate. I find that very interesting and that is also evening-filled, but that is a huge government focus. This completely takes the look away from what people can do on their own. With regard to the combined lifestyle intervention, to which Mrs Van den Berg asked, it is precisely that diabetes, for example, can be overcome to a large extent in a healthier lifestyle, simply by moving. The government has almost nothing to do with that, people just have to do it themselves. Yes, indeed, some people need to be tempted a little extra to do so. As a government, you could indeed take a role in this with vulnerable groups. All at your service, but I find that focus only on what the government should mean in this, very distracting from what people themselves should want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u59	Very brief, finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u60	I think this is too easy. Of course, people themselves influence their health, but you can't expect a child growing up in a flat on the highway to solve their own problems? Surely you can't from a cleaner, who has no choice but to work heavy, tiring and night shifts, who are just bad for health... That's the kind of process the government has to deal with. Now I'm going all over the place; I get that too, but the extraction of natural gas in Groningen has had enormous psychological effects on the people there. So government trading has one-on-one to do with people's health. You can't look away from that. You can't focus it entirely on the individual responsibility of people. We have a joint responsibility to ensure that people can grow up in a healthy and safe environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u61	But now you're really looking for differences. I'm not just appealing to people for their individual responsibility. I am just saying that it is precisely because people's lives are not divided into how we set up our budget, because also the problems in people's lives are not divided up as such, it is necessary to choose interventions from the government close to people themselves. This sometimes has a background from a lifestyle intervention, but sometimes also from a living environment dimension. Hence all policy on air quality, for example. That's something you can't choose as an individual. You can't choose the air you breathe. But a lot of things are in your hand. In that balance I want to ensure that only the government is looked at, where people themselves can do a lot. Maybe we should have that evening full debate again. But perhaps because of the time and haste the President is in, we should now move on to a number of questions that have been asked in this context. For example, Mrs van den Berg's question on the combined lifestyle intervention. It's important. It has actually been prepared for a number of years, especially when it comes to diabetes; not only in the case of diabetes, but also in the case of diabetes, it is an extremely effective and more effective intervention rather than the standard treatment that applied to it. What are the requirements? This is currently the subject of work by the Healthcare Institute. This gives the advice to health insurance companies to include the requirements regarding the quality of providers in their policy. In principle, this combined lifestyle intervention is not only reserved for general practitioners; it can be offered by different professions. For example, lifestyle coaches, dietists, physiotherapists, or the practical supporter of the general practitioner's care, provided that they have competences required by the GLI programme. This means that GLI providers have to meet the requirements, the competences that the Healthcare Institute imposes on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u62	We understand that, indeed, anyone with an HBO degree plus a short-term training course of I believe 17 days may call themselves coach. Does that also mean that people with backgrounds that have nothing to do with care and have never coached at all should be allowed to perform this qualification within seventeen days?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u63	I think you are opening the door very wide, because it concerns people who have a medical or paramedical background, HBO-educated, with a number of additional competences that have been formulated by the Healthcare Institute. The implementation plan is now being prepared by the different parties. In the next few months, the "I' will continue to dot. I hope you have sufficient information on this. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to send it over. I'll give you my word, but here's what I can say about it right now. Then I'll run the questions as quickly as I've had them. The prevention agreement. Actually, I just said it. On the prevention agreement, Mrs Dijksma's question is: is attention being paid to people with low socio-economic status? The answer is: actually, that's the most important reason to do it, because everything you do on prevention, especially in groups with low socio-economic status, is least effective at the moment. So where the difference has to be made, it is there in particular. So if we fail to increase reach among groups with low socio-economic status, then we are not doing well enough. In fact, I would suggest that the Secretary of State should go into this further in the letter in preparation for the AA. Then the AO can be involved in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u64	I think that's a good proposal. If you wish to pass that request on to the Secretary of State on my behalf, I am pleased. Then he can answer that question right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u65	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u66	I am curious whether this is also the explicit assignment given to the participants at the different tables. Sometimes that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u67	I can imagine your question very well, but I do not have the answer now. I have to ask my colleague and he will come back to that himself. I will look at the questions, such as the questions raised by GroenLinks on debt issues. It also leads to poor health, so more cooperation is actually needed in the social domain. We have just had this little debate, and I would like to say that this has been one of the reasons for decentralisation. If you look at the mid-term evaluation of the Youth Act, the observation is that the profits that would be made in it are not actually being realised at the moment. Working across the domain is also quite complicated for municipalities. There is the classic Social Affairs department, where the requests for assistance are dealt with, but is it already very swinging together with what is being deployed to district teams in the neighborhoods? There's still a profit to be made. You can see in quite a few municipalities that the first step in debt services already starts in the district service. That is an example of this integrated approach. I would say that we are not yet where we need to be and where we can go, but there is already substantially more going on in the integrity than a few years ago. Then the question of the 25% that is explained by lifestyle. Smoking, alcohol, not enough exercise and unhealthy nutrition are very important determinants of health and disease, but of course many more factors apply, as we have just mentioned, for example, debts. Low education is also an important predictive factor. The remaining 75% is due to factors in which lifestyle plays not so much a role. You could say that of the total burden of illness.I think that is always a complicated word, but researchers know perfectly well what they are talking about... is about 25% lifestyle-related, but 75% is not lifestyle-related. That's actually a huge opportunity. Looking at the total disease burden is a lot by determining a better and healthier lifestyle. It is not for nothing in the coalition agreement that the task is to work with the national prevention agreement. That has everything to do with those three main determinants of lifestyle. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the sugar tax. Mrs Sazias asked if the sugar tax would be included in the prevention agreement. I have heard my colleague say that he does not want measures to be taken in advance, and if he has said so, he has spoken on behalf of the cabinet. We have used this route with the different tables to reach the prevention agreement to really get all the ideas and to be able to weigh on the pros and cons. That's the answer I'd like to leave it at that. There is no prohibition to think about it. We should not want to do that anyway, because if we really want to take those measures in the prevention agreement to get somewhere, you need to be able to think about everything. That is not an advance on the idea that the cabinet might like it, but we do not want to put forward measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u68	This is a somewhat delayed interruption, Mr. President. Sorry about that. We know that 25% of the disease burden is lifestyle-related and the other 75% is not. To be honest, I was there, because that is what the Minister's letter says. My question was mainly about the remaining 75%. If we want to get it right and take away problems, it helps to have insight. My question was: what do we know about the remaining 75%? What information do we have on that percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u69	Very much and at the same time very little. Take, for example, all genetic factors that are predictive of all types of cancer. Genetic factors are important predictors, including the size of care costs. Care for people with cancer is about the most expensive care we have in the Netherlands. When it comes to predictors of percentages of the disease burden, genetic factors are an extremely important element that cannot be influenced. But that is less important for this debate, because when it comes to highly influenceable elements, it is mainly about lifestyle factors. We just talked about that. So that accounts for 25% of the disease burden. Let's say you could achieve something with a fifth of the life-style gain. Then you've made an incredibly big difference in people's lives, but also in the total cost of care. There is therefore every reason to focus in particular on prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u70	If there are factors that we do not have any influence on, then we can certainly not do much with them. Maybe I should put my question a little more clearly. Apart from the 25% that is lifestyle-related, are there any other elements where we can solve problems and prevent care from being needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u71	I know what you mean. In any case, there is often a correlation of problems in people's lives, but this is particularly true in the areas we have just talked about. For example, we are talking about debt, which can lead to stress. And stress can lead to a health that is less experienced. So you have to think about that type of thing. What is the solution? That solution is not so easy to come up with from The Hague. But that solution can be thought of at local level. It is therefore appropriate in the environment. The living environment is also a factor at all. In municipal councils, of course, these kinds of discussions are also being held in full: how do you set up a district so that it invites you to move and play outdoors and contributes to a healthier climate, so better air quality? In short, everything is connected with everything. It's not that easy to untangle at all. Nor can you want to implement everything about health policy. That 25% is really about lifestyle-related illness. There's something we can do about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u72	Rounding off, very briefly. My point is that, in addition to these lifestyle interventions, we need to see if there are other factors in which we can intervene and prevent the need for care. I think that is a responsibility, including for this minister. That's why I asked. The more specific the Minister can come up with solutions, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u73	I think I have just given a very concrete example of this, namely the Probable Start programme, which we intend to launch. This is about really shaping the birth chain differently, so that you already see which families are vulnerable, who you should support and what that support should look like. Mrs Dijksma also made a comment on this support. So this might be a nice little bridge to the next block. Often a care question is also more of a symptom, rather than really taking away the cause. Suppose an obstetrician is treated with a person who is deeply concerned about an imminent removal, as there is one and a half metres of unpaid invoices. Then you can take care of it until you weigh an ounce, but that stress about it really persists. Can the obstetrician fix that? No, because that's not the competence of an obstetrician. He can't do that. But does this midwife then know the way to, for example, the district team, which can prevent the expulsion from the home? This is certainly not yet settled in many municipalities. We have a lot of work to do there. Then you're actually working on debt services, but it does something great not only with the mother's experienced health, but also with the child's healthy start. That is an example of going into another domain or, you could say, making a much better connection between the medical and the social domain. I'll get back to the questions. The CDA asks whether the cabinet will carry out specific research into the differences in life expectancy in order to specify them. There are so many stacks of research already. As far as I'm concerned, the next step is to wait for that VTV from the RIVM. Then the cabinet will rule on that. The WRR is currently researching the development of health inequalities. Is education involved? The answer is yes. The umbrella organisations in education are involved in the preparation of the prevention agreements. I'm getting to the second block. The first was mainly about prevention. The second is: how do we help people find the way? This was partly due to Mrs Dijksma's question. A care question isn't always about care. Ask a doctor. He will say: a serious percentage of some general practitioners say: almost half of what I have in the waiting room in the morning is actually something quite different from being treated. It's often about attention. One often comes from loneliness, from uncertainty, from concern, but these are all things other than actually requiring medical intervention. Two things about that. It is very good that we can at least find our way to the general practitioner. Then I'll come back to Mrs. Agema's observation. It is wonderful that the general practitioner care is so accessible. Let us keep it that way. The VVD also says that we are not going to introduce our own contribution to the general practitioner, because then you miss that accessibility. Then the second. I would like to give it to many general practitioners that a better triage can be done, to use that word for a moment, that there will be a better connection between the waiting room and the district team. If you're shy about contact, then the GP, no matter how nice, cozy and fine that man or that lady is, is not the right person to go. You should have that contact more close. The neighborhood team can help you out better than the GP. This plays a role in many more programmes. Do we know when it comes to accessibility of our care, especially when it comes to socio-economic health differences and experienced healthy years, how to take people more and more by hand to find their way into healthcare? This is partly the case, but we are working hard to improve it. In a somewhat different composition of this committee, we have had a very intensive debate on customer support and how to do it differently and better. Mrs Bergkamp has tabled a rather clear motion for which groups should do better. It concerns vulnerable groups with a high risk of socio-economic health differences. I'm preparing a letter. I shall come back to that in the direction of the Chamber. I have already mentioned the one against loneliness programme, which will help to remove a larger group of older people from isolation. By closing local coalitions, that's really possible. I refer to the Langer Home programme, which we have often seen ahead of us. This is used, among other things, to improve care support and its accessibility and to promote co-operation in the neighbourhood. So that too is going to contribute to finding the way in healthcare. Observations in the mid-term evaluation of youth care pointed out that the groups most in need of care were the most difficult to find their way in the youth care system. That certainly hasn't happened since yesterday. That has been the case for a long time. Child care is an excellent form of care where the people who need it the most feel that they need it the least. So you have to do very much to improve the accessibility of that youth care system, especially for the most complex groups. This is also the subject of a series of measures in our Youth Care programme. In short, the observation is entirely correct: especially those who need care, know their way around the system harder to find. On the other hand, however, I think it is right to describe this in the letter which I promised to Mrs Dijksma that we should now take a whole series of measures to improve access to care. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the third block, which is more about financial accessibility, because a number of questions have also been asked about this. When it comes to the financial accessibility of care in the Netherlands, you should at least say that it is above all international in comparison with the needs. That does not alter the fact that the cost of caring for people can be a serious issue. In fact, this can increasingly be a serious issue. We know from research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau that people have concerns about high healthcare costs. We talk very often about the gap between The Hague and the citizen, but I always find it interesting to see that the concern that citizens have about their own care costs runs perfectly in parallel with the concerns of the CPB's planetary economist about increasing healthcare costs. I think that is the point that Mrs De Vries is right to point out. As far as the increasing costs of care in the Netherlands are concerned, it is already the case that a fairly serious part of the income is devoted to care. People often don't notice that, but it is, and if we're not careful, those care costs can rise so that people lose about twice as much care in 2040 as they do now. Especially for middle-income people, who benefit less from all the schemes that exist, this can greatly affect disposable income. Up to 40% of disposable income can be absorbed by care. We should never get into that phase. So we should not talk to each other too much about the gloom, because we cannot pay for it with each other, we cannot deliver it and there are not enough people at all to be able to deliver the care in this way. But more important than that is the notion put forward by Mrs De Vries: simply reducing the rise in healthcare costs helps to maintain solidarity in the system. This solidarity is very great in the Dutch system, and we must, above all, keep it that way. That's where we need to start. The increase in healthcare costs is therefore really important for the financial accessibility of care and for maintaining solidarity in the system. Then there is the experienced increase in the cost of care for people themselves, to which Mrs Ellemeet referred. The cabinet focuses in particular on the accumulation of care costs. The cabinet is taking a number of measures to counter this accumulation. The first measure is to freeze one's own risk, not to abolish it, but to freeze it. Without this measure, it would simply increase its own risk with the increase in healthcare costs, which is considerable in this cabinet period. So freezing helps; that's one. A second point concerns people who receive long-term care but still bear housing costs themselves, for example because their partner is in a nursing home, and they are no longer themselves, or because that care is delivered at home via vpt, mpt or pgb, to send only a few abbreviations into the room. For them, the own contribution has been substantially reduced by the last 1 January. That means an advantage of €150 per month.... that depends a bit on your income situation... for a group of 30,000 people who have a lot of care costs. A huge advantage. The capital income addition for the own contribution in the Wlz and protected living will be halved by 2019, from 8% to 4%. That's a huge advantage for people with a stack of care costs. In addition, we are working on a subscription rate that I do not want to talk about for too long at your Chamber, whereby the own contribution for the Wmo-care from the municipality is limited to €17.50 per four weeks. In addition, the own payments for the medicines are capped at €250. In short, where does this cabinet have to focus now? Especially on the accumulation of care costs that is experienced; that is one side. The cabinet should also reduce the overall increase in healthcare costs as much as possible; that is the other side. In this combination, we want to ensure the financial accessibility of care and also solidarity in the system. I'm really convinced that's the way to go. I can look into all the questions, but I think I answered them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u74	There is still an interruption by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u75	I was just peeing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u76	Too much information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u77	There was also a colleague of mine here, but I didn't hear from the minister about the multi-care scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u78	Excuse me, excuse me. I can't find my note for a while, but I'll leave the answer out of my head. The multi-care scheme is not a temporary scheme, but it can be temporarily indicated for those who are particularly more indicated for behavioral support. Indeed, there may be some fluctuations in the level of support needed in this area. But the point is that there are two arrangements in the Long-Term Care Act to be able to provide care above thezzp. One is the extra-cost home scheme, accounting for up to 125% of the basic care that can be provided from the zzp. In addition, there is the multi-care scheme, which is being extended. We have had a whole debate on this. In order to be able to deliver more customization in the Long-Term Care Act, the additional cost regime is extended. I have promised the Chamber to send a letter on the extension for more customization in the Wlz and I have promised to send a letter on the health fall. Both have to do with the extra-cost home scheme and with the multi-care scheme. Perhaps we should then resume the debate, but those arrangements are there and are even being extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u79	I do not know otherwise than that the multi-care scheme is a temporary subsidy scheme, as well as the group multi-care scheme, which is also a temporary subsidy scheme. But it's nice that the Minister wants to come back to that. I would like to ask him whether he can comment explicitly on the group care scheme, because I believe that it can mean more to us in future than the multi-cost scheme and that we can give it a more definitive status. Of course, a subsidy scheme is something other than azzp funding scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u80	Maybe I can come back to that. I would like to follow Mrs Agema's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u81	Fine. You had come to the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u82	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u83	I shall then proceed to the second term on the side of the Chamber. One minute's speaking time, including the possibility of tabling motions. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Dijksma of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Minister for his contribution. My impression is that the cabinet itself wants to work very seriously to reduce health inequalities, to improve the health of all Dutch people, both of the people who are doing well for each other and of the people who are in a difficult position and who are injured. But I think it is a good thing to conclude the debate with at least two motions on my part. I would simply like to table the first motion to state precisely that, in both the prevention agreement and the main agreements, the government is going to pay particular attention to the health gap and to the reporting of the impact of policies to the Chamber. I would also like to present it on behalf of Mr Hijink, who actually had the same idea, as we saw in the preparation of this debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to reach comprehensive agreements in the area of health care and a national prevention agreement;]] [[Whereas these agreements offer opportunities to reduce the health gap;]] [[calls on the Government to give explicit consideration to how the healthcare gap can be reduced and reported to the Chamber in the main agreements and the national prevention agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijksma and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689,899]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u85	Second motion, short but powerful. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that access to care should never depend on the width of the wallet;]] [[Whereas the risk to many people is a high threshold for care;]] [[calls on the government to take steps to reduce its own risk in healthcare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijksma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-900]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you, Mrs Dijksma. Then I'll go to Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the evening full debate with this Minister to get through the fundamental issues properly. To begin with, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant differences in health in the Netherlands between those with a high and those with a lower socio-economic position in society;]] [[Considering that an important part of addressing socio-economic health differences between people lies in improving living, living and living conditions for people;]] [[considers that this cabinet does not intervene enough to improve the living, working and living conditions of people with a lower socio-economic position;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise that improving these living, working and living conditions is crucial to addressing socio-economic health differences, to take responsibility for significantly improving these conditions and to draw up an overall plan to achieve this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-901]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u89	And then within ten seconds a practical point to start with what I just suggested. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in many municipalities savings have been made on the GGD;]] [[noting that the consultation office within the GGD has an important role to play in early detection of child retardation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the means needed to strengthen consultative offices so that they can better fulfil their role in preventive health care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Dijksma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-902]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I ask them whether they also learn about healthy nutrition in their education, I have heard from doctors on a regular basis that there is hardly any attention to it at all. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas healthy nutrition can make a significant contribution to good health;]] [[Whereas information on healthy nutrition does not reach everyone;]] [[Whereas the importance of healthy nutrition is not taken into account in training for doctors and nurses;]] [[calls on the government to examine how healthy nutrition can be included in the curriculum of medical and nursing training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Dijksma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-903]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u91	Yes, Mr President, I would like to ask a question because, as far as we know, this is already in the coalition agreement. So I was wondering why Mrs Sazias wanted to make a copy of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u92	We believe that this is such an important part that it can never hurt to give the Minister some extra support in this regard. We therefore hope for a 'judge chamber' and'support policy'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you. Then I shall go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA waived her second term, as did Mrs Dijkstra of D66. Then I come to the last speaker from the Chamber and that is Mrs De Vries of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr President, thank you, because I do not often have the pleasure of debating with this Minister. I had asked a number of specific questions in the first round. The Minister does touch them, but the specific questions are not really answered, so I just want to repeat them once more. The first question concerned the promotion of cooperation between primary care and the social domain. The Minister has said something about this, but I am curious to see how the cabinet intends to encourage and promote it. The second point is the following. The Minister said something about the affordability of care and that we need to reduce the cost of care. A number of people say that there are a number of concrete things you could use, for example when it comes to the most expensive patients, who have multiple conditions, with different specialists and different hospitals. There are professors who state that up to 1 billion can be saved. Then, as ministers, I would jump in and see how you can give it hands and feet. I also think that it is important that we discuss this. I had also asked very specifically what opportunities there are for better information exchange. We would like to see steps taken by this Minister or the Minister for Medical Care to tackle this, so that those savings will actually be realised. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u95	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I'll give the Minister the opportunity to get his papers together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u96	I shall give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport for the second-term reply and for a second-term opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I have a number of motions and I'll check them by motion. I shall begin with Mr Dijksma's motion on item No. 899. That the theme of the healthcare gap should be on our retina and that we should work on it, including in the coming period, I think we agree on that. The form proposed by Mrs Dijksma per motion is a little too modest, given what we actually have to do. We're not just going through the chords. We also choose to work with all kinds of programmes. That is a point of hesitation. The second point of hesitation is as follows. We are still at the beginning of the prevention agreement. By the way, you will continue to debate this with my colleague. We are well advanced in the negotiations on the main lines agreements. We hope to be able to inform you about this in the not too long term. I think it is strange to include a separate order in it at the eleventh hour, although the agreements we will make will undoubtedly contribute to this. In short, because of these hesitations, I would like to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u98	I'm so sorry about that. Well, we started so well today...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u99	Actually, yes. And then this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u100	I find the Minister's reasoning inimitable, with all due respect. You start by saying: yes, you are actually too short; we are doing much more. At the end of the day, my request is perhaps a little too much in the case of the main line agreements. It can't be both; it just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u101	Well, it's both true. But I will build up the reasoning again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u102	Do that briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u103	Okay. I'll try to give it a short shot. One. We've just exchanged that RIVM is coming before the summer with its VTV. We will respond to that. In doing so, we will pay explicit attention to how this cabinet is committed to reducing the healthcare gap. I do not think you are opposed to this; I think that is a pleasant idea. Two. I just said it's not just about chords. This motion deals only with the agreements, where the programmatic direction that contributes to reducing the health gap, for example, is about the programme against loneliness, the Prosperous Start programme and all the ways in which we want to combat the gap. A third element in the reasoning against this motion is that at least one of the main lines of agreement we wish to conclude has been skinned apart. It would be crazy to add an order at 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u104	We agree on the first point, but that has nothing to do with this motion. The second point concerns the following. If you would like to see all your programs added, you are free to do so. There's nothing stopping you. On the third point: that is where the problem lies, that is correct. The cabinet says, also in a letter to the Chamber: for us, reducing health differences is actually chefsache, super important. On the most important instrument you may have in the years to come, financially as well, namely the main agreements, you say: we cannot come up with a post-order. It can't be. This presupposes that there would be no measures in the main agreements to reduce these differences. Even I don't believe that. You are presumably failing to do so and, unfortunately, you are failing to advise this motion to the House as well. I think that on both points, both the prevention agreement and the main agreements, we should simply be able to see what they contribute to reducing health inequalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u105	The longer and the more we talk, the more we disagree. One. The main agreements are not the most important instrument of steering. On the contrary. That's what I'm trying to argue. There are so many ways to steer that care. My offer to Mrs Dijksma, and about that she initially seemed enthusiastic about coming up with a response on the occasion of the RIVM's VTV and to describe socio-economic health differences and at what point, in what way and by what way the cabinet would like to address them. That's one. Two. I am not going to anticipate the content of the main agreements. They're negotiating. I do think it would be strange to add the order to that at the eleventh hour, that special and explicit attention should be paid to it. In addition, a number of agreements contribute to this. That is certainly the case, but discuss it when the negotiating agreement is concluded, because that is the time to discuss it in the grass roots. This applies both on the part of all the parties involved in the health care agreements and on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u106	A very brief comment, Mrs Dijksma, because we are about to move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u107	In any case, it seems logical to me that a parliamentary reservation should also be made for the negotiators of the government in the main agreements. Once again, if it is a key policy to reduce health inequalities, then it must also be reflected in key agreements, which are an essential driver in terms of finance. It's not a reorder. It is simply letting your own policy ideas be reflected in your own chords. I honestly don't understand what can be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u108	I don't think you want me to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u109	No. I think you disagree. You will proceed to the next motion, which also belongs to Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mrs Dijksma's motion on item No. 900 calls on the government to take steps to reduce its own risk in healthcare. Now you are aware of this cabinet's intention to maintain its own risk. That is a reduction compared to the increase that had been in it otherwise, because we are really going to change the system, but that is not an absolute reduction. That's one. Two. We do not do that because we want to introduce a more targeted set of measures that also affect the objective you are actually aiming at, namely to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs. I have just mentioned the examples that we are looking at in this cabinet period. We have already taken a number of measures. In short, I would like to discourage this motion. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 901 belongs to the member Hijink. It touches on the discussion that we have just had about the integrality of the various areas of policy, all of which can interfere with people's health. I don't think we're fighting that. I do not really see how an integrated plan is going to contribute to this. So I would also advise against this motion. Then I come to the Heink/Dijksma motion on part No. 902, which calls on the government to examine the means needed to strengthen consultative offices. I do not necessarily agree with the first observation that there would be a lot of savings. I can imagine you making this request, but I would actually like to ask you to hold this motion until we discuss the Prosperous Start programme, because it specifically describes and repositions the role of the Youth and Family Centres. I would actually ask you to hold this motion until that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u111	I'd rather turn it around. If that research is carried out in the short term, you can still include it in the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u112	Then I advise against this motion. Another investigation and more paper is not the way to go. I'm moving on to the Sazias c.s. motion. in piece No. 903. It invites the government to examine the possibilities of including healthy nutrition in the curriculum of medical and nursing training. A curriculum is created by the profession itself and the educational institutions. Together they create a curriculum. We must be careful not to place an order in every debate for what needs to be included in a curriculum. This is not the first motion I have seen on this point. That's one. The second point is that the coalition agreement sends the same message to the profession and education: effective intervention must be considered, with lifestyle interventions and dietary interventions playing a role. So when it comes to delivering that message, I would like to do so, but I do not need this motion for a resolution. If it pleases you, I promise you that I will deliver that message. But I don't recommend this motion. Then I come to the questions of the VVD. I think I've at least touched the questions asked. The cooperation between the first and second lines was included in the debate on how to ensure that the medical domain and the social domain cooperate more closely. But it is true that there is also a world to win in terms of substitution from the second to the first line. That happens to be one of the issues that comes back in the main agreements. This concerns the question of what you could do from the healthcare domain in another domain, to connect care matters more with lifestyle or other elements of the social domain. Then it could be about diabetes care, for example. Mrs Van den Berg made her contribution to this. It is about better cooperation between the first and the second lines, and about substitution care that you do in the first line and then combine with lifestyle interventions and other types of interventions from the social domain. As a result, even medical care is no longer necessary in the long term. If we want to control the growing costs of care together, this is the way to go. This is only the example of diabetes. This could also apply to many other areas. The Care report, which has recently been presented by a number of parties, is the basis for the discussions on this subject under the Main Lines Agreements. But this also applies: not only in the case of basic agreements. That's one. The second point is the question of healthcare costs. Is it the case that 1% of patients have a serious percentage of patients who have a serious percentage of patients? What was it again; 80%? That won't cover the cost of care? You even said, "is responsible for." I know those words from research, but I always find them a little uncomfortable. Patients do not usually choose to do so themselves. This is about the most expensive oncological care. The highest care costs are often there. This has partly to do with the specific medication that is extremely expensive and with the treatment that is extremely intensive. Is it true that there is a profit in the cooperation between specialist centres and regular hospitals? Absolutely it is true that even with very expensive care, apart from the oncological care, there are combinations to do with the first and second lines and with what people can do at home. Absolutely! The simplest example is the heart patients. They usually come back periodically and therefore take a lot of hours of care, because they need to repeat and be measured every two or three weeks. If they can do these things at home, it is both less burdensome for the patient and much less burdensome for the care system. In short: yes, it is true, a lot of expensive care costs can be reduced by better cooperation. Where do we invest that theme? Among other things via Zorg in the right place in the main agreements. But not just there. Other ways are also used to ensure that this movement is made in the sector. I like to see that it is actually becoming a movement of the sector itself. Under the term "sustainable care," these kinds of solutions are becoming increasingly vocal and widespread; among other things, health insurance company VGZ is working hard on this. That's really good news. What steps does the Minister take? I think it is very good that you, as the main line agreements, are also in the Chamber as a negotiator agreement, and continue the debate on this with my colleague Mr Bruins. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u113	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this 30-member debate on the growing healthcare gap in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-25-tweedekamer-4.u114	I thank the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport for coming to the Chamber. The votes on the motions tabled shall take place on the Tuesday following May. We shall resume the proceedings at 2.15 p.m. I'm suspending the meeting until then.
