ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u1	The Minister is in the process of answering the first term of office. I can say the minister needs his old age. That sounds a little weird, but you stayed on that block. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm only 41 but I'm already working on my old age. I do have four more blocks that I want to walk by: old age, integration, purchasing power and the amendments. Tuesday evening, the day before yesterday, we had a good debate on the failure of the negotiations on the pension agreement. I said there that it was a great disappointment, especially for myself, but that evening I understood that it was also a great disappointment for the Chamber. Mr Van Rooijen asked a large number of questions last night. I answered the technical questions in writing in the set this morning. In addition, Mr Van Rooijen has expressed his concerns about a number of challenges that we face when renewing the pension system, such as how we deal with the self-employed and how we ensure a responsible and balanced abolition of the average system. Those are indeed not small tasks. These are major tasks and complex tasks. It's complicated. However, we had already made some progress in the discussions with the social partners on this point, as the Prime Minister and I explained orally and in writing on Tuesday. That also gives me the confidence that it is possible to come up with good solutions here together and ultimately we can achieve such an important renewal of our pension system. Because I also heard last Tuesday that everyone agrees that the current pension system is in need of replacement. This strengthens me in the view that we can take steps in the near future. Last Tuesday I also promised that in January, following the Asscher motion, I would come forward with a letter on how to proceed. On Tuesday, a motion was also tabled by Mr Buma on an investigation into the one-to-one link-up of the AOW and long-term age expectations. I'll take it with me in that letter. That motion has not yet been voted on, but it has been widely supported, so I will include it in that letter. I should like to leave it at that, because we have had such a long debate on Tuesday evening. I have sent a written explanation. I'm afraid it's gonna be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u3	But there is a question for you from Mr De Jong of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u4	Speed, that is the way this Minister is dealing with this dossier at the moment, at least during this budget debate. It all has to be quick, quick, quick. At the same time, months have been lost in which the Minister could have made the choice to really mean something to those elderly people, by ensuring that these pension reductions do not continue, by ensuring that pensions are indexed once again and by meeting the people who are no longer able to make it to the AOW age by freezing, for example, the AOW age. These are three points that the Minister could take care of today without a pension agreement. Why doesn't this minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u5	I also discussed this in detail last Tuesday evening. I have indicated that it is a total package; that it is not just about the future of the pension system itself, the contract itself, but also about the areas that are at stake, as it is called. As a cabinet, we have made an offer for a gradual growth of the AOW, for a scheme for heavy-duty professions, but also for a future-proof pension contract in which, if we were to take the step towards such a new contract with other forms of security, we would also have the opportunity to remove the reductions that threaten to be made. But it's a total package that belongs together. That is what I explained in detail last Tuesday. We also have time to do this with some urgency. We said the same thing on Tuesday, and that's where I come in January with that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u6	There's no time at all. There are now reductions in pensions for millions of people. The Minister could choose to settle it now instead of using it as a bargaining tool with the unions, the employers and everyone who sat at the table. That the Minister then says 'I want to talk to the unions about an agreement and so on'. Why does the Minister not choose to remove these two elements, preventing discounts and indexing, at least from these negotiations and to settle them today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u7	In my opinion, this cannot be separated from the new pension system. I know that Mr De Jong feels differently. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this, for example on the calculation rate debate and that kind of thing. Just last Tuesday, the Prime Minister and I argued that in the new system we see room for rapid indexation and also scope to avoid discounts, but on the condition that there is a new system that is also rationally balanced. Because if you're going to turn one button within the current system, you're going to make chunks. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u8	In conclusion, the Minister deliberately chooses to abuse the interests of millions of retired people who have worked for years to have an old age in a normal way during...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u10	... during negotiations. I can make a point, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u11	We have interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr President, I would like to make a point about this debate, if I may. This is the largest budget of all budgets. There was another debate yesterday and other debates are taking place today. When it comes to such an important issue, when the pension debate refers to the budget, and if I want to say something about the AOW when it comes to the budget, about something that I think is just in the budget, I think it is so fair that I should be able to make my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u13	Absolutely. We just made an appointment...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u14	My point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u15	Now, you listen to me, please. We have also made an agreement that we are doing interruptions in two, with a very small final word. Now you're doing your interruption extensively in threes. That's what I pointed out to you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u16	I hadn't had a chance to draw my conclusions. I hope I can do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u17	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u18	This all goes from time to time. Dear Minister, through the President, why do you choose to abuse those interests of those pensioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u19	I very much disagree with Mr De Jong. I have worked hard over the last few months to bring such a pension agreement closer; this applies not only to me but also to the employers, the employees and the crown members in the ESC. That was all of this, but as I have just said, I do not think that you can get loose elements out of it. It's a total package. It was precisely the urgency of all parties that I felt. It's not a negotiation game at all. It is particularly important that we reach agreement quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u20	There has indeed been a wide-ranging debate on pensions on Tuesday evening. The outcome of that debate was, among other things, that the four government parties here for the first time said that that one-on-one-on-one-one-year longer life in the AOW is one-year longer working time in the long term untenable. In my first term, I asked the Minister whether he felt that the deadline had already expired, so that it was already unsustainable and that the problem was acute. In support of this, for example, we have already mentioned in this debate today the example of the massive influx of people into the WIA by the fact that a lot of people simply do not make it through to the AOW age. So the question to the Minister is: when has the deadline reached when it is no longer sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u21	I have to combine a few answers. First of all, of course, it has been very consciously chosen to accelerate the age of AOW to 67 years. This was done in 2013, but this was confirmed in 2015, partly because of the fact that this age has always remained at 65 since the introduction of the AOW, while life expectancy has increased significantly in that period. That's one. So I'm still behind the catch-up to 67. At the same time, in the negotiations with the trade union movement, I offered to slow this down in the whole of the new pension system to 2024, precisely on the assumption that it might be a little more gradual. Part two of my answer is that, for the longer term, this age is indeed linked to the increase in life expectancy. That clutch is now one-on-one. Mr Buma has tabled a broad-based motion in this Chamber this week to investigate this one-on-one link in the long term. In the discussion last week on the pension agreement, this is actually going to take place from 2025. This means that we also have time to examine this carefully, to establish a good link for the future and also to think about good funding for it, because this costs a lot of money. The third point is the debate on the heavy professions. I know that Mr Van Kent has always paid a great deal of attention to this. We have also debated it a number of times. What I find complicated in this discussion is that it has been regularly observed that we had to do something with this but that the social partners have not come out twice to define "heavy professions." Against this background, the Prime Minister and I have also offered in the negotiations on the pension agreement to reduce the RVU levy and even to set it to zero in the last year to enable tailor-made work at sectoral level or enterprise level for people who really are no longer able to do so. So along three ways we've addressed this point. That was also the case in the negotiations on the pension agreement. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to reach agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u22	That was a very long answer. My question was when we reached the point where this one-on-one link is no longer sustainable. I think I hear the Minister say that this point will probably be reached after 2025, at least after this cabinet period. We must note that this point has long passed, that people in a number of heavy professions are already unable to work until the age of 65, let alone until the age of 67, which the Minister says is necessary because it is a catch-up. So again the question to the Minister: what should be seen in, for example, the influx into the WIA or what should be the problem in sectors before the Minister acknowledges that that point has been reached long ago, that the problem is acute and that measures now need to be taken to allow people to stop working earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u23	In my reply to just now, I addressed this point. The current law will enter 2022, for those who reach the age of 67 in 2021. That is the moment of the accelerated increase in the AOW age given the fact that life expectancy has increased by five years in recent decades. After that, the clutch becomes up-to-date. In the pension negotiations we had stuck it at a later year, namely in 2025, and we also had a different design in mind, given Mr Buma's motion. By the way, it is also true that I sent a letter to the Chamber twice, in October this year and in October last year, stating that the age of AOW will not be increased in 2023 and in 2024. It will then remain at 67 years and three months due to the delay in the increase in life expectancy. Coming back to your question: I think it is important that the acceleration of the AOW age increase to 67, which has really been a catch-up in recent years, remains. But quite rightly, there is a discussion about the longer term, which arises from the question: if we are all going to be 110, how long will we continue to work? The Buma motion is an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u24	Short. A final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u25	I note that the Minister has still not had a story since he took office, and still has no solution for those who, for example, are already worn out at the age of 63 and are no longer able to work. He just keeps defending that the AOW age should rise faster, while that is really unworkable for a lot of people in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u26	Last Tuesday, in the debate on the pension agreement, I also indicated that we, as a cabinet, were prepared to move towards the social partners on the RVU tax, i.e. the fine on early retirement. The proposal was to halve it and even put it to zero in the last year, precisely to enable tailor-made work between employers and employees at sectoral level. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to reach agreement on this with the trade union movement. That's the situation we're in right now. I also indicated on Tuesday at the end of the debate that the package is still on the table and that I am very motivated to reach a rapid agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u27	We also received written answers from the Minister in response to yesterday's debate. I assume that we can come back to parts later in the afternoon in the Minister's speech. But I would like to mention separately the issue of the threatening discounts. We discussed this on Tuesday, and in the answers the Minister says he wants to talk about threatening discounts in a new contract, but I do not read that in the current contract. My question remains as to whether the Minister is prepared to remove these threatening discounts by proposing to at least avoid those discounts in 2019 and 2020 for the large four pension funds, which together account for 60% of all pensioners. You can't say: those discounts go off the table when I get my way. I have also discussed this in detail on Tuesday. I have received a great deal of reactions, such as that we are the playball of politics, the Prime Minister and this minister. It can't be that you think the discounts should and can be cancelled, but only if the cabinet can push the new system through with a kind of blackmail "and otherwise we're just going to cut down the elderly in particular." It can't be. There is an initiative proposal. That's gonna be in the mood in February. GroenLinks and 50PLUS are proposing to extend that deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u28	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u29	Will the Minister promise that he will take those discounts off the table before the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u30	Last Tuesday, I argued in detail, and indeed the Prime Minister, that this discussion should be conducted in a broader system debate. The aim is to put an end to nominal security, Mr President, but that is the essence of this discussion, and not to steer in a new system towards a minimum coverage rate of 104.2% or 104.3%, which is the starting point in the current legislation, but to a coverage rate of 100%. This would allow these discounts to be taken off the table for those pension funds which have a coverage level above 100%. Because that is indeed the discussion we are now in. What Mr Van Rooijen is now asking for is separate from the broader system reform, which must look at the interests of different generations and whether they are being treated in a balanced and fair manner. Mr Van Rooijen argues to take one part of that and do so in advance, and then to see what comes of it. I don't think that's wise. We all have a responsibility to all generations in pension funds. This applies to young people, to workers and to the elderly, and we must do so with care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you for that answer, but let me ask you another question. The Minister also acknowledged, in answers to my questions last week, that if the coverage rate is 100%, which also remains 100% in a new system with softer claims. That's because the arithmetic rate is so low. I can give you the quote right away. You literally say that the coverage rate, if it is now 100%, does not change by itself because of a new contract. If the calculation rate remains low, the coverage rate simply remains 100%. That's one. The second is that the President of De Nederlandsche Bank first thought with me that interest could rise on those softer claims of the new system. Then the President of De Nederlandsche Bank recanted and told me together with the Minister that even in the case of softer claims, the calculation rate cannot be raised. That is what the social partners want, and I believe that it should be possible to do so. In other words, even in a new contract with softer claims, the calculation rate remains low. And if the calculation rate stays low, the coverage rate stays 100% and is therefore simply reduced. If you have 99% you will certainly be shortened and if you have 104% under the existing scheme as well. By the way, we have tabled a motion which will be put to the vote next week, which states that you are only allowed to cut by 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr. Van Rooijen, your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yes, my question, Mr. Chairman. It is complicated, because the Minister says that it will all be okay in the new system, but I will explain to him that it will not be okay in the new system if the calculation rate remains low.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u34	And you wanted confirmation from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u35	The Minister does not want to do anything about this rate of calculation, so he must confirm that, if the rate of calculation remains the same and the level of coverage is 100%, the new system can also be reduced. Those discounts do not go off the table, only with funds above them, but not with the big four. That's what I'm fighting for. I want the Minister's assurance that before the elections there will be no cuts in the funds that are now at 100% at the low interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u36	I am going to peel off Mr Van Rooijen's speech. The transition to a new system does not mean that the level of coverage is different at once. That's right; once. The second point is that the transition to a new system does mean the following. It was the intention of the negotiators at the table that no more large buffers had to be built. Under the current system, buffers should be built up to a coverage level of 130% before full indexation can resume. The idea was that we wouldn't build those buffers anymore and we would index faster. But the downside of that is that you short faster. We have to be honest about that. If you're going to steer more at 100% coverage, you'll be more likely to get lucky than you are to fail, especially if you're counting prudently, and there's a greater chance you're going to index. But you're gonna cut it faster if it doesn't work out. That's the honest story of the new system. That still doesn't mean anything for coverage. It does mean that because you no longer have to build those buffers, you can start indexing faster than in the current system. In fact, in the current system we are not expecting an index for another ten to fifteen years, because these buffers must first be built up in the current MFTK. We have no glass ball and no prediction about the financial markets, but that is what we expect. Then there's the softer speech debate. If you go to a new contract with softer claims, that doesn't mean that the accounting rate has to be different. Mr Knot has indeed sent a letter on this subject following a small debate between Mr Van Rooijen and me. I have responded to that myself. In fact, I argued last Tuesday that assuming a prudent interest rate, you have a higher chance of windfalls than of setbacks. That's good for everyone, but you don't have to count yourself rich. As a result, you can resolve the calculation rate discussion by not saving in a collectivity anymore in the build-up phase but in an individual pension account. That is what Mr Van Weyenberg said yesterday in the debate. Mr Knot then refers to the projection rate in his letter. You can already hear how complicated this is and how it's connected. These are all elements, so you can't take one pebble out of it and say: well, then we'll solve it. You have to look at it in conjunction and treat it in a rationally balanced way, otherwise we're gonna make chunks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u37	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u38	The bridge to Van Weyenberg doesn't help me, because that is about individual jars that are in the coalition agreement but are off the table and we don't want them either. My point remains: the Minister acknowledges that if the coverage rate is 100, including in the new system, there are those funds which now have a coverage rate of 100 that have the big four about today can be reduced and, of course, not indexed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u39	Now the final word of Mr Van Rooijen, his third interruption. We have a deal on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u40	The Minister also acknowledges that, in the case of softer claims, the accounting rate remains unchanged. This means that at the same low interest rate and a coverage rate of 100 today, if nothing changes over the next three or four months, then 31 December will also pass, the fourth counting year will be cut by the end of next year, especially with regard to the two metal funds. It's not a negotiation, it's not a toy. We want that certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u41	In the current system, we are going to cut short if a fund has a coverage rate below 104.2 or 104.3 for five years. In the new system, the system envisaged, that would not be 104.3 but 100. That is where this commitment comes from, namely that if we were to move to a new system with a new calculation method, then there would be no need to cut down on those funds that have a coverage level above 100. The same applies to APB, PFZW and the large metal funds. They're all around 103% coverage right now. But this is true within the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u42	But that new system...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u43	No, we don't do it in fours. I give the floor to Mr De Jong for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u44	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u45	I have heard you, but I give the floor to Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr President, to you too: it is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u47	They are all important issues, all budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yeah, but this is probably the most important topic of everything we've been doing here...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u49	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u50	My question is whether you want to take into account that this is a very important subject. That's one. Secondly, does the Minister agree that in recent years a lot of changes have taken place within the current system, and that it is precisely always the case that we should be moving towards a new system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u51	I'm just thinking out loud. Changes have been made to the system, such as the recovery periods, the new ftk and new discount rules, which did not prejudge a new system. However, since 2010, there has been a debate on how we are going to achieve a future-proof system, actually since the Frijns and Goldwaard committees. Mr De Jong is right about that. Meanwhile, there have been changes but all within the old system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u52	I am making this point because for a number of years there have been many changes within the current system, with the support of each time: what we all do is necessary for sustainability and we need to move towards a new system. That was the subject of every debate. I haven't been sleeping; I've been following all these debates very well. Since these changes, confidence in the current pension system has only decreased. All that has been done is to reduce people's confidence in the current system. Now this minister can restore confidence, at least for a little bit, by avoiding, for example, those discounts. Then why does the Minister choose to say that it is not wise to make changes, which has happened in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u53	Changes have been made to the system in recent years. Mrs Klijnsma introduced the new financial review framework in the previous cabinet period. This concerns other rules, reduction rules, limits, buffers and requirements within the old system. At the same time, even at the time of Mrs Klijnsma, there was a discussion on the future of the pension system in the ESC, the Economic and Social Council. The point is, as I have also pointed out on Tuesday and just in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen, that there are solutions to a lot of problems that we now see in the current system, such as no indexation, young people who feel disadvantaged and distrust of the system. They were also on the table in the negotiations on the future-proof pension system. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to reach agreement on this. But, yeah, we're not finished yet. We continue because the urgency is great and the interests are great. Indeed, if we stick to the current system over the next ten or fifteen years, we would not be able to be indexed. Hence our appeal, from the Prime Minister and myself: let us solve this problem and build a future-proof system together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u54	The changes made to the current system, for example, were made by D66 to tell the story all the time that it would be necessary for the future, for confidence. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, It has only ensured that there is confidence in the system for more people. You've turned the buttons. The Social Affairs Ministers have been at the bottom of the current system, and that is precisely what we need to solve, by, for example, restoring those discounts, which have been created by twisting those buttons. That's all I'm asking right now. Fix the mistakes that have been made. If you don't want that, it's pure unwillingness. Then you don't give a shit about all those pensioners, and then you don't give a shit about all those young people, and then you don't give a shit about the current pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u55	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). If changes have been made to the current system in recent years, they have always been aimed at preventing reductions in order to extend the recovery periods, the hot potato, for us. These have been all the changes made in recent years, including Secretary of State Klijnsma. It is precisely these changes that have not led to the restoration of confidence in the system. So Mr. De Jong achieves the opposite of what he is aiming for. If we want to restore confidence in the system, we need to have a future discussion about a future-proof system, not just keep turning buttons every time, because that does not bring confidence back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u58	You've already made it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yes, but I just want to make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u60	No, I'm going to see Mr Van Dijk now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u62	Fine. Make a point of order. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u63	Yes, but I will simply ask the rest of the Chamber through this point of order, because you are cutting me off and I do not think you should do that, especially on this subject, in order to be able to make my interruption, my final comment on this very important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u64	That is not what the Chamber is about, and that is what I am about, so I shall give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u65	Yes, but I'm going to put it to the vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Van Dijk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u67	Madam President. I'm allowed to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u68	I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u69	I'm really gonna make this point anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u71	I am now asking the Chamber to put it to the vote...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr. Van Dijk, would you mind placing your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u73	This is about the pension system. I'm just looking for the moment. A point of order is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u74	And I have indicated that I have heard the point of order, it has been noted and I now give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr. Chairman. A point of order will be discussed and, if necessary, voted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u76	From now on, I understand you want to celebrate interruptions. We're going to make a change to the regulations. Let me get this straight. 'Cause we got together before we got into a debate... I have an instruction from the President, who has done this before, that we should make the interruptions in two with a final remark. I'm offering you that space, then someone wants a fourth time. I think that if we make an agreement with each other to have a debate and we do interrupts in two with a final word, I must keep you all to that. That's fair, that's how we agreed. So that's what I want right now. If you want to agree that you will be doing interrupting in fours from now on, then we should have made a different timetable, because there are more debates. They are all important. And that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u79	I would point out to you that the President gave Mr Asscher an extra word on Tuesday during the big debate, which Mr Buma did not get, which was right to come forward. At the end of the day, the President said: 'You will have it all.' If you give Mr De Jong an extra word, we will then ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u80	Yes, that is precisely why I would like to point out that we had agreed that we should do interrupts in two with a final word and that I would like to stick to that. If you want to have an order debate on this now, fine, but I think it is nice to do it as we do with all the budgets, given the time we have reserved for it. So I just want us to have a proper debate, with interruptions. So I'm gonna make a round. Mr. Kuzu, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is an important subject. Mr De Jong of the PVV has indicated that he wishes to make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u82	A fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u83	Instead of having a long debate on the order of business, I would like to propose that Mr De Jong should make a final comment. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u84	You're the chairman. You're in charge of the order. I understand that it is a major subject for Mr De Jong. Maybe he can come back one more time, but that's how it gets pretty messy. With all due respect to Mr. De Jong. Otherwise things are gonna get out of hand, especially if you gave these people the free hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u85	...who think it's all a very important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u86	I agree with Mr Van Dijk. We make agreements with each other; everyone keeps them. There is also a second term in a moment, in which everyone can return to any subject, so I say: the agreements we make apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u87	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u88	You're the chairman. Interrupts are indeed in threes. I understand that Mr De Jong wants a fourth, but that may be possible in the second term or at a later time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u89	I also agree with the previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u90	That's it. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk for his interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u91	I actually have a technical, factual question. The new system is being discussed. We have asked written questions to the Prime Minister and to the Minister for Social Affairs. We have also had a proper answer to that; that was mainly about funding. Can the Minister give us a little more insight into that? This is particularly important for the next consultation, because we will soon have a general discussion on pension issues. I understand you don't have to now, given the time. But we're talking about a new system and I've heard and read something, but I've never seen it before. So that makes it a little complicated for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u92	I understand very well what Mr Van Dijk said. Of course, no agreement has been reached in the ESC, which means that no document is available either. We announced the letter before January, in which I would like to go into more detail. So, if you will allow me, I would like to outline a little more of the choices that have been made on the table, without making the draft opinion of the ESC public, because that has not yet been established. I'm also looking for the way you can put this, you know. I understand Mr Gijs van Dijk's question very well. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that in the letter of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr. Van Rooijen, I hear you have a separate question. Mr Van Kent has a supplementary question. Finishing at this point, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u94	When replying in writing, the Minister indicated that he would like to make a number of sums available to the Chamber, including a number of transfers. Is it therefore possible to make available the sums that have been made, for example the sums that belong to the average systems and other things? Because if we only hear in broad lines what was on the table, without the numbers below, then it is not possible for us to understand that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u95	I think I referred to this in the written set this morning. We've had technical analysis done by the Central Planning Office. I hear they're already public.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u96	That is the CPB, but it would be good if we could get more information on what options are on the table. I hear the Minister now saying that everyone thinks there should be a new system; I do not know at all whether I think so, because I do not know what the proposal is. In order to be able to assess that proposal, it would be a good idea not only to get the CPB figures, but also the sums to support that new system, for example, what it does for the levels of cover, what this average structure looks like; all of these things are important. So the question to the Minister is whether they can be made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u97	Just for the sake of completeness, before the image arises that there are such sums: there are no such sums. What is there is is an analysis of the SER from 2015. It's called an ALM study, an Asset Liability Management study. It was about the different variants that were on the table at the SER. These variants have been further developed, in the coalition agreement, but also in the last few months in the ESC context, on that contract. The notes that Mr Van Rooijen has are specifically about intergenerational welfare distribution and about the abolition of the average systematiek. I hear Mr Van Rooijen say that this is about the new contracts. Yes, but this is about potential new contracts, not the SER contracts that were on the table. It's more of a technical exercise. Mr Van Kent is right, however, that in the run-up to a new system these sums should be made very detailed. How are we going to finance the average systematic, is there compensation for those groups, what does it mean for the levels of coverage and that sort of thing? Mr Van Kent is right about that. They're not here yet. They really need to be worked out, even more so, almost at fund level, because the funds are also different from each other. The ABP is different from an enterprise pension fund that already has a DC scheme. Sorry about the technique, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u98	Finally, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u99	I'm a little surprised those sums aren't there. I can't imagine you coming to a new contract without knowing those sums. Anyway, I have to believe the Minister. Would the Minister say that all possible numerical justification of the proposals as presented by the ESC is also shared with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u100	Apparently, there are two notes out there right now. In addition, I would like to refer to the overview work from 2015-2016 of the Central Planning Bureau, in which all variants have been calculated for the SER, including coverage rates, recovery periods, robustness, benefits and replacement. All those things are in there. They are very thick books, in which a numerical basis has been given of all the directions that have been on the table over the past year. However, in the run-up to a new system, hopefully, this exercise still needs to be repeated at fund level, because there may simply be differences between individual pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr President, I have a procedural question which, I think and I hope, does not count for the three questions. Is the Minister going to reply to my speech this afternoon for almost half an hour? Is he going to answer all the questions about pensions which, as he rightly pointed out, largely relate to the existing system? 'Cause the new one isn't here. Otherwise I talked half an hour for nothing and then we'll be done this afternoon, because then I have no answer and everyone can go home half an hour early. That is not the intention of a budget debate. So I would first like to know from the Minister whether, apart from the written answers, he would like to address all my questions this afternoon. That was about twenty; I even numbered them. Among other things, it concerns the blank cheque of 60 to 100 billion. This morning, quite coincidentally, a report has come out on this subject, which we are not going to discuss now. So that is the first question: are you going to answer all my questions? Or can I go home?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u102	The Minister indicated that he was done with this part. I think that is why you have this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u103	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u104	Surely you cannot remove the issue of pensions, apart from the interruptions by Mr De Jong and other colleagues, with 'we talked to the Prime Minister on Tuesday'? That was about the failure of something that wasn't there. I want to talk about what's going on and what risks that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u105	You want your questions answered. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, on Tuesday, we discussed in detail the failure of the pension agreement. Many of Mr Van Rooijen's technical questions were answered in writing yesterday. They were on the set this morning and they were in the written set last week for the pension agreement. I was actually done with this block. If Mr Van Rooijen still has a supplementary question, of course I am always prepared to answer it, but it was a lot of very technical questions, which might be better answered in writing than we are going to discuss all the finesses of the average system. I like that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u107	I find it shocking and disgusting what the Minister says. He answered one side of my 15 pages last night. Everything about the blank check isn't in there. He repeats all the answers I have already heard. Then you can say: yes, he is asking for the familiar way. No, I'm not asking about the familiar road. I am asking for solutions within the existing system. If the Minister does not give me those answers this afternoon, then I will have to put the questions in writing. I've done that a lot in the last few days. But we have a debate here and I note that the Minister is not prepared to talk about the reductions within the existing system, which I am talking about in particular. He's just answering a gramophone record, just like his predecessor. I would now like to hear from the Minister what I can expect. In dealing with my own initiative proposal, he said to me that the Commission will issue an opinion on the parameters of the pension system. Is that the new one? It doesn't say that. It says that the task was in line with that of five years ago. So that is the existing system. So do you ask the Commission to recommend Parameters to all aspects of the pension system? That can only be the existing system, because this committee cannot advise on a non-existent system. That's the first thing I want a clasp-and-ready answer to. I would also like a clear answer on something he writes this morning, namely that the Commission has the legal task of looking at the UFR method which is also part of the calculation rate. They shouldn't just be able to study that. Is the Minister also prepared to ask explicitly whether they would also like to look at the UFR method in the opinion they are going to issue next year, which is normally only about the expected return? I'm glad the Minister says UFR can get in. Is he willing to ask the committee to do so, so that they actually do so? That's what they're free to do. Will he ask whether the European UFR method could also be involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u108	Before you answer, Minister, I have a question for Mr Van Rooijen. You state that you have asked all kinds of questions in your term. Have the other questions been answered, has the Minister answered them, or have they not been answered at all? Then you can tell us which questions have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u109	That is difficult for the listeners and the viewers, Mr President, but also for the colleagues. I will state this minutely after this debate, because that is not possible here. In particular, I said that I asked eleven questions about the 60 billion blank cheque, two pages of all have not been answered. Let me limit myself to that. That seems obvious to me. With the publication of the report of the planning agency, it becomes clear that there are still so many open ends and assumptions, and there are still so many further investigations... On Tuesday I told the Prime Minister, and also the Minister, that for us it is clear: if there is an internal problem between the workers, it must be solved within the premium. Non-pensioners should not suffer from this through collective wealth and coverage, even in a new pension contract. If there is no indexing in a new contract at low interest rates and a coverage rate of 100, there is no benefit for pensioners................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We're gonna get double-crossed. I want the Minister's answer to that this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u110	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u111	It cannot be that I spent so much time on this yesterday and the Minister says: I sent a note last night. It's not in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr Van Rooijen is asking a lot of questions. I'm really trying to get into it. First of all, a simple one: is the Commission also going to take the UFR with the Parameters? Yes. In 2014, there were two committees, the Parameters Committee and the UFR Commission. The 2019 Parameters Commission contains both elements, including the UFR. It's easy. Then there's a more complicated question, the average systematic. I think it would be wise to exchange this in writing, because this is so much technique and so complicated that I wonder if that will help in this debate. But Mr Van Rooijen is always talking about a blank cheque of 60 billion. Of course, that is not entirely the case. What's going on? We have the average systematic in the current system. This means that everyone, regardless of age, pays the same premium, but also receives the same pension rights, the rights. Actually, that's not right, because €100 from someone who's 25 years old still makes 40, 45 years, while €100 from someone who's 62 years old only makes a few returns. So the €100 of those two persons are actually, actuarially and arithmetically, incomparable. So if we were to abolish this average system, the premium input that young people are doing would actually be worth a lot more, which would result in more pension rights. If you abolish what is in the current system, namely that everyone pays the same premium, you then cancel a subsidy that now goes from young to old; "old" is about older workers, between 40 and 67 years old. That means you have to compensate that generation. Mr Van Rooijen and I very much agree on that. If you want to do this rationally balanced and if you want to do it transparently and predictablely, you have to map it out. The CPB sums show how you could do that. You need to map out the different sources in the pension fund to compensate this generation, this cohort. This can be done, for example, from the level of coverage, but it can also be done, then it becomes completely technical from the double transition, namely not only the transition to a new contract but also the abolition of the average systematiek. When you go to a new contract, young people start building up a lot more because you drop the nominal security. The money they have deposited can then be spent much longer. That's another source that would allow you to compensate that group. As you can see, if I'm gonna peel this off in this debate, everyone is gonna drop out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u113	Not me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr Van Rooijen did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u115	Not everyone!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u116	It also differs from fund to fund. If you have a pension fund with a lot of older employees, you have a different problem than if you have a fund with a lot of younger employees. One of the thoughts that we had at the table during the discussions on the future pension system is: how are we going to bring this average systemisation compensation together within all these funds? We can do that by mapping it, by making it transparent. We can then do it by including a compensation obligation in the law, then pass it on and show all participants how this is compensated. Mr Van Rooijen also raised the question yesterday whether this is direct compensation. It can't always be direct compensation. That would only be possible if all the funds had a very high level of coverage. Then it can be financed from the coverage rate. If you use the double transition, you need between five and ten years to compensate those workers between 40 and 60 years old. I can talk about this for another hour, really. But I think it would be wise to do this in writing, or else at the general consultation on pensions at the beginning of December, in response to the notes from the Central Planning Bureau. In it the sources and the systematics are well described. I'd rather do that than deal with it in plenary. There are a lot of other questions I still have to answer and this is really food for lovers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u117	I understand this is AO on December 5th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u118	Then we have four minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u119	You want the questions answered now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u120	I thank the Minister for his answer, but I have one more question. He said we should look at the compensation. First, he mentioned the level of coverage and second, he said that a new system could be indexed earlier. Young people can build more by means of more indexation and then it will be resolved in five to ten years. I get all that. We also believe that this average problem needs to be resolved. I found that with the Minister yesterday. I refer to what the Minister said in his first sentence, namely that it can also be done through the level of coverage. I made it clear on Tuesday that this is not negotiable for 50PLUS. I even used the word "unacceptable." In a cabinet, that's a loaded term. In the Chamber, that's a little less. Let me make it clear that this is unthinkable for us. I've been getting thousands of e-mails, movies and whatever since Tuesday night. For 40 years, I have paid the good premium, as a young person and as an older worker. By the way, I have worked in the government and in companies. I went back and forth twice. I paid the right premium for 40 years. I can wear it, but I am looking at ordinary pensioners from the metal sector, for example, who have worked at the same company for 40 years. It seems that the coverage rate will fall by 4%. That's probably 10% for funds with a lot of older people. This means that the new indexing in a new system completely evaporates. That's taken away because you're going to have to pay for it through a lower coverage rate. That's the fourth way to take care of the elderly. You have the low interest rate of the ECB, the expected return, the low UFR, and now you have the average problem. In that case, pensioners who have paid the right contribution for 40 years will be taken for the fourth time. The double transition means for them: double-packed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u121	I also rejected Mr Van Rooijen's motion on this point last Tuesday. I said it's not feasible. I want to put an image against that. The whole pension system depends on solidarity and redistribution. Mr Van Rooijen is right. The people who are now retired have always paid the average premium. At the same time, this happened at a time when life expectancy was still low.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u122	That has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u123	That has everything to do with it. An increase in life expectancy also means that too little has actually been paid. This can be paid out of excess returns. This can also be paid from other parts of the pension contract. The whole system depends on solidarity and redistribution. If you pull one thing out of that now, you're gonna have a really weird discussion. Mr Van Rooijen stated that compensation for the average problem cannot be deposited with pensioners. If you do that, you're going to treat a group in the pension collective differently from all other groups. I also said on Tuesday evening that I think you should do and explain this in a rationally fair, balanced and transparent manner. When Mr Van Rooijen says that he only chooses pensioners, he does not do justice to all young people who also have to take the long-term risk of life, as it is so beautifully called. I fundamentally disagree with Mr Van Rooijen on this point. That is exactly what I said on Tuesday night, and that is why I dissuaded the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u124	A final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u125	Life expectancy has nothing to do with it. A few years ago, this was integrated into a single blow because life expectancy suddenly increased harder. Longer life expectancy is all about today's coverage rate. In the past with the fixed interest rate of 4%, over-rewards were made from 4% to 10% because interest rates and inflation, and all of them, were above 10%. This was in the seventies and eighties. The pension funds then had a coverage rate of 180%. What did the Lubbers cabinet do? It said: these pension funds are wealthy, we put corporate tax in them. In other words, if things go well the participants are caught and if things get bad young and old too, as is the case now. You shouldn't bring in life expectancy. Pensioners have paid the correct contribution for 40 years. Then you shouldn't talk about life expectancy. You've acknowledged that. We're not prepared to do that. And I already know that there's now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr. Van Rooijen, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u127	There are funds already investigating whether class actions are going to come to court on this point. Then you've been warned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u128	I agree with Mr Van Rooijen on that last point. When it comes to the entry of old rights into a new system, it must be accompanied by legal guarantees. That is a large and very complex point of attention, which I am also very concerned about. I think it is only wrong that Mr Van Rooijen pretends that an increase in life expectancy has no consequences. It has been processed for this year, but let's say life expectancy will rise a little further next year. All those who are already retired will have an additional life expectancy and therefore an additional pension period. But this is all going to be so much technique and so much love, which Mr Van Rooijen and I can get very excited about, that it is really good to discuss this separately once in an AO pensions or in a technical briefing, because in a plenary debate it is a little too complicated, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u129	Thank you. I think we have come to the following part: purchasing power. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u130	Yes. I would like to respond briefly to Mr De Jong's questions about the purchasing power plates for 2018. I also answered a few factual questions in the written set. Mr De Jong has the impression that the actual purchasing power differs from the images we present in the budget. That's right. Mr De Jong is right about that, because purchasing power figures are estimates based on the best estimates at the moment. Reality can evolve differently. This is linked to economic development, inflation trends, wage developments. Mr De Jong is right: wage developments are, of course, an important determining factor in purchasing power. But it also depends on, for example, interest rates. So the realization always deviates from the prediction. If you look at a longer period of time, fortunately, it's not like it's different in one direction. Sometimes there are years when it's not that bad, sometimes there are years when it's not. For example, in 2017 and 2018, the years that Mr.De Jong also mentioned yesterday, the realizations afterwards were lower than the prediction in advance. But in 2015 and 2016, this was just the other way. At that time, inflation was disappointing and purchasing power developments were better than previously estimated. So there's no movement one way or the other. It can be lower, it can be higher and over the long term middles that a bit out and are the good predictions of purchasing power developments. Purchasing power for 2019 looks positive: 96% is improving. But if the estimate deviates because there are other economic figures or other inflation forecasts, then I will tell you immediately and inform Parliament. That's what I do when mistakes are made. A mistake has indeed been made in the Millions Note for the current year. I corrected it when it came up. I was right to send a letter to your Chamber: "One element has not been taken into account. I'm correcting this image." Mr De Jong's last factual question is: are the local burdens included in the purchasing power figures? Yeah, they're also in the purchasing power figures. They go through the estimate of inflation. There a kind of assessment is made of the development of local burdens. In other words, wages, economic development, taxes, also the increase in VAT from 6% to 9%, and also the local burden are in the purchasing power picture. That's the best assessment we can make right now, and it can change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u131	There are calculations that show that, precisely because of the development of municipalities, purchasing power is declining compared to the prediction. So what I would really like to know from this minister is: can he send an overview where he just shows on one little A4 how the purchasing power development has actually been real over the past three years compared to expectations? Just one sheet: what succeeded and what failed? Can he promise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u132	Yes. If it's okay with you, I'll do it for 2015 to 2018. Is that a good time for Mr. De Jong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u133	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u134	Then it is about the prediction of the Millions Note and the realization of the financial annual report of the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u135	And when will you have that available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u136	I'll take a look. Not today, but very soon. We can probably send that to the Chamber next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u137	Next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u138	What I want to see linked to that is what that is about with real disposable income. What matters is that people might get a nice story last year in terms of purchasing power pictures: last year, just half of the people went down on it, but in fact they just didn't notice it in their wallet. I would like to know whether the Minister agrees with me and what he is going to do to ensure that the real disposable income, which has been really lagging behind for a long time, also on economic growth, is going to increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u139	I want to include the real disposable income in that overview that I'm sending to you next week. That's just CPB information. We can also take that into account in the overview. The purchasing power point in real disposable income has been one of the points why we included in the coalition agreement to "set in the record" a heavy burden reduction by 2019, as it is so beautifully called. Hence the purchasing power figures for 2019 now look so good. And that's a mix of measures. On the one hand, increases in the burden on health care contributions are increasing, VAT is indeed being increased.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The total of all these measures leads, with the current insights I would like to stress again: with the current insights... to a plus for 95% of the Netherlands for 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u140	The 50PLUS Group in the Upper House, which I am not yet in, as we know, has asked the Nibud to present the purchasing power for the period 2010-2019. I'm just gonna get one out. On an annual basis, a working couple declined €800 and a retired couple €3,200. The working single person declined €300 and the retired single person €1,800. Maybe we can do it next week, but otherwise we can do it at the same time as Mr De Jong asks. I am pleased that the Minister has promised this to Mr De Jong. At least he gets a commitment. That's what I'm happy about. Can the Minister in this Chamber respond to the figures of the Nibud from the report made at the request of the 50PLUS Group of the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u141	I'd like to do the latter anyway. I'll take a look at the official support. I believe that a recent study has also been carried out on the income trends of different age cohorts in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u142	The request is to respond to the Nibud report, apart from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u143	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u144	You have that commitment, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u145	I'll add it with the reaction to De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u146	Together with the letter to Mr De Jong, by the end of next week at the latest. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr President, I would like to start with the integration block, if you will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u148	I understand that the Chamber also held legislative consultations on this issue. Mr. De Jong, about purchasing power? Yeah, go ahead. Let's get back to the previous topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u149	Of course, the Minister replied in the written answer on purchasing power, but in recent years that element of wages has always been disappointing. That's just always been disappointing. Even wage developments have been adjusted downwards. So the Minister himself sees that it is not being realized. Right? I mean, employers say that there is no room, generally, genericly, for a wage increase that is now assumed within the current purchasing power development expectations. Isn't it the case that we would do better if, when it comes to purchasing power, when it comes to wages, we didn't judge wage development so high and just left it to the employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u150	The last remark puzzles me again, but let's peel it off. Last year we had a debate on wage developments in this budget debate. At that time, we also asked the CPB to investigate the factors affecting wage developments: flexibility, technological developments and that kind of thing. That report was presented by the CPB last week or two weeks ago. This gives a description of a kind of wage paradox that several countries have to deal with, that wage developments are lagging behind in previous years. The explanation is that productivity is rising less than in recent decades. That's the CPB's main statement in last week's report. In addition, every year the CPB tries to make the best possible estimate of contract wage developments in the following year. That's always an estimate and an assessment. The CPB has adjusted wage developments downwards in two steps at the time of the Central Economic Plan, based on different measurement points. In other words, the realizations gave rise to saying: we indeed expect it to be less than we previously thought. On the last Millions note, we took the latest estimate of the CPB, which was indeed lower than was expected a year ago. So in that sense, that supposed estimate is taken into account in those purchasing power figures. Now Mr De Jong's question is whether we can window a little lower, so that it is always easy afterwards. I think so... Oh, that wasn't your question? Then I didn't understand that question. I think it is a good thing that the Central Planning Office makes the most realistic estimate, estimate, of macroeconomic development and, therefore, of wages, and that we should base our policies on that. We should not make assumptions ourselves; we should leave that to the independent calculator, the Central Planning Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u151	The story is as follows. People are perceptible: this is the development of purchasing power. Mr Rutte, and Mr Koolmees, did not say that they were estimates when presenting these purchasing power figures. They do not have to be. No, they said, "Look what we're gonna do." Under the line, people didn't get that. That's just reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u152	No, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u153	That's the reality. People didn't get it. The CPB says that the people didn't get that wage development, they just have to work a little harder. That's a weird thing, too. If you see that development has been going on for years, shouldn't the Minister even think about compensating for it before he does that presentation with a lot of bombs? So my question is: how is this minister going to make up for the negative effects on purchasing power over the last two years, so the fact that people didn't get as much at the end of the journey as they were previewed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u154	One: in my presentation of purchasing power, I have always stressed, including in the debates in this Chamber, that it is estimates, that it is dependent on economic developments, that it is an estimate at this time of next year's events, and that this assessment may be different. It may not be so bad, but it may not be so good. If there's any reason to change that estimate, I'll inform the Chamber about it. Two. In last week's survey, the Central Planning Bureau does not say that we need to work harder, but that we need to work smarter to increase labour productivity, because labour productivity is the driver. Three. I have just stated in my reply that it was indeed disappointing in 2017 and 2018 compared to the previous estimate, but in 2015 and 2016 it was the opposite: at that time the purchasing power figures were not so bad compared to the previous estimate. So there is no systematic deviation in one direction. It is the best estimate we can make at this time of uncertain development, namely economic growth and wage developments next year. That is the best instrument we have at the moment to make this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u155	I also asked a question yesterday about the remaining wages. Powerful institutions, such as the Rabobank, De Nederlandsche Bank, and even the Prime Minister, have said: those wages should actually be raised. What is the government going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u156	We also had this debate last year. As a result, we have asked the Central Planning Office to look more closely at the causes of the delay in wage developments. Previously, factors such as technological development, flexibility in the labour market and thus the smaller bargaining power of the trade union movement had emerged. That could all be partial statements. Now, last week, the Central Planning Agency came up with an investigation. This shows that the most important explanation for lagging behind in wage developments is the lack of labour productivity. That's what the Central Planning Office says. So they conclude: if we want to drive wage developments, we will have to work smarter. That is the substance of the debate over the past year. The second point is that we now see that the labour market is very tight. We see that there are a lot of vacancies and that employers have to take more and more turns in order to get staff hired. My expectation is that you will see that in wage developments. This is also expected by the Central Planning Office for next year's contract wage developments. We have always said, the Prime Minister but also me and Klaas Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank, that in those sectors where there is room for wage increases, it would be wise for employers to do the same. This is good for Dutch consumption, which is good for household spending and real disposable income. My view now is that the tight labour market will also lead to wage developments. In my opinion, that was also what I was going to say, because I read a great deal about Mrs Laura van Geest's expectation last week, director of the Central Planning Bureau. In the light of economic developments and given the labour market situation, wages may rise next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u157	Those are all expectations. Hope I can hear this sound in between. As far as my party is concerned, you might as well be more firm on that. I also made some suggestions to you yesterday. I also said yesterday that the rising top salaries are really shooting through the roof. Almost 300 times as much makes Unilever's top man than the workplace. Two thirds of the Dutch want a maximum of that kind of top salaries. At the same time, we also see that poverty is growing. We're gonna talk to the Secretary of State about that later. Is the Minister going to be interested in this, the discontent in society about these huge top salaries at these big companies without anything being done about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u158	I replied to both aspects of Mr Van Dijk's speech in the written set, both on the possibility of wage measures that we had in the 1980s and on wages in industry. The cabinet isn't about that. It is the responsibility of private parties to set wages. I can only have opinions about it. What we are talking about is pay development in the public sector. That's what the WNT is for, the Top Income Standards Act, 1 and 2. There is a ceiling for people who are paid tax money, sometimes even in sectors that are close to rogues: the code of remuneration for caregivers, the code of remuneration for housing corporations. We'll deal with that. There we have a maximation through the Wet norming top incomes. There has also been moderation since the introduction of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u159	But, of course, we decide what we're about. Politics ultimately determines that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u160	My answer was: the cabinet has no opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u161	No, I understand. But I'm sure the cabinet has an opinion on social opinion. And there's a lot of discontent about those top salaries that are getting higher and higher: almost 300 times more than the workplace. Now we know that the links between the big business and the cabinet are good. I'm making a very modest proposal. Wouldn't it be an idea if the Prime Minister talks with this always sympathetic minister and says: listen, we would like to point out to you last Sunday's broadcast of Nieuwsuur which shows that two thirds of the Dutch want top salaries to be dealt with; can we agree on this so that this discontent diminishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u162	It is very unwise to have a view of social developments; joke! We have the Code of Good Governance. That is not my responsibility, but that of the Minister of Finance, I believe. It is broader about good governance in business. That's where this discussion belongs. Again, it was also in this morning's written answers: the cabinet has no idea of the level of pay for private companies. It's really up to shareholders and employees to get out of there together. We do have a view of people who are paid out of tax resources, of tax cents. That's what we have laws for, like the Top Income Standards Act, and that's what we're dealing with ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u163	But the question was, are you going to have a conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u164	We are constantly discussing the Code of Good Governance, but not the agenda item proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, so to make this call. We don't intend to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u165	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the purchasing power block. Then we move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u166	Yeah, integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u167	Integration. There has been a legislative consultation on this, but I understand that there are certainly still questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u168	Indeed, last Monday, on 19 November, we had an extensive legislative consultation of a few hours. I don't want to redo everything, if you don't mind. There have been a number of questions, certainly by Mr De Graaf, which have not been raised and which I would like to answer briefly. I think it is a good thing to say in advance that I do not share Mr De Graaf's world view, but that is no surprise to Mr De Graaf, because we have exchanged it more often in recent months. I have answered most of the questions in writing, but I would like very briefly to give some sketches. Migration is not new to the Netherlands. Throughout the centuries, people have moved to the Netherlands. In the decades after the Second World War, these numbers of people have increased considerably. Mr Kuzu began his speech yesterday afternoon. Today we are no longer dealing with large groups of migrants from few countries, which in the 1960s and 1970s was of course the case with people from Turkey and Morocco, but with small groups from many countries. That is also the analysis of the Scientific Council for Government Policy in the research The new diversity. This shows a good picture, namely that this diversity of origin has never been so great in time, regardless of the extent of migration. This has made diversity by origin a structural feature of Dutch society in a relatively short time. This was also one of the most important conclusions in last week's Annual Report on Integration of the Central Statistical Office, which has also received a great deal of media attention. But there was more in the CBS report, also a few things I really want to stress to indicate that things are moving in the right direction. As far as school, work, family formation and crime are concerned, the differences between Dutch and Dutch people without a migration background are slowly but surely getting smaller. It is striking, for example, that Moroccan-Dutch children are getting better and better at school. Those are positive figures. In the labour market, unfortunately, the difference remains considerable. There is still a higher risk of unemployment or of staying on welfare benefits. The Secretary of State and I are working together to improve that. So there is work to be done, including for me and also for the Secretary of State. The common thread is: how do we ensure that everyone can participate in society? By learning the language, through work, through integration and also through further integration into the labour market, the pathway that runs, for example with a pilot with people with a Somali or Eritrean background: how do we ensure that we reach that group to make it active in the labour market? Mr De Graaf has asked a number of specific questions about the position of Jews and the threatened Christian-Jewish culture in the Netherlands. I would like to emphasise that the same fundamental rights apply to everyone in our society: equality, freedom of expression, freedom of religion. Within the law, within the limits of the law, we choose how we organise our lives, with whom we marry and in what religion we believe or not. Discrimination from anyone and by anyone we don't accept. We will soon have a very good speech from the Secretary of State on tackling labour market discrimination, but unfortunately we have not eliminated discrimination. That is why, as a cabinet, we are committed to reducing discrimination. Soon the Secretary of State will discuss this labour market discrimination approach in detail. The cabinet takes the consequences of fear and displeasure in the Jewish community very seriously; a specific question from Mr De Graaf was about that. It is not acceptable if people do not feel safe based on faith or origin. I recently attended the commemoration of the Kristallnacht in the Portuguese synagogue in Amsterdam a few weeks ago. I noticed how much security there is and how many feelings of insecurity there are. It is not acceptable if people do not feel safe based on faith or origin. This goes directly against the Dutch core values I have just mentioned. Research into trigger factors for anti-Semitism from 2015 and European research "Antisemism and Immigration in Contemporary Western Europe. Is there a connection?" from 2018, however, do not support the image that anti-Semitism is inherent to Islam or Muslims in the Netherlands. However, anti-Semitic attitudes seem to be more present among Muslims and people with sympathy for extreme right-wing groups; that is where these attitudes are more common. The most important trigger effects, the main effects that trigger this, appear to be in the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian territories and bizarre enough in football. In this context, the cabinet is committed to a dialogue between the Jewish and Islamic communities in order to raise awareness and thereby prevent these trigger factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u169	Thank you, so far, for the answer. A number of things had not been asked, but there has been an answer. That's odd. But okay, fine, the minister chooses his own words. I asked: how does the Minister get the hatred of the Jews out of Islam? You can have ten investigations with trigger factors for Judaism hate, but in Sura 1, verse 7 which is mandatory prayers five times a day by Muslims says: do not lead us on the path of those on whom You are angry. That refers to the Jews. It's been pumping Jew hatred into it five times a day. That's why I asked: how does the Minister get the hatred of the Jews out of Islam? I do hear "unacceptable this" and "unacceptable that," but I do not hear any action. That's what I want from the Minister. What's he gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u170	Just as a result of this question, I have just given the answer I gave about the 2018 survey on trigger factors. It also addressed the question of whether there is a link. Anti-Semitic attitudes are more present among Muslims. This is often mainly due to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I am not a connoisseur of the Qur'an, nor of the Bible, I must confess. So I cannot say much about it in substance. But I have just given that answer in response to Mr De Graaf's question, namely whether there is any reason to do so. According to the research, there are two groups where it is more present: among Muslims and among people with sympathy for extreme right-wing groups, where anti-Semitism is often involved. That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u171	That's where the shoe's wringing. All forms of anti-Semitism are reprehensible. I couldn't agree more with the Minister. In his first response to my questions, the Minister says: I do not share your world view. But we still share a piece of worldview, because I like to see a world completely without Jew hatred. So I hope that we there then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u172	I agree with Mr De Graaf immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u173	That's good to hear. The minister himself indicated the weakness in his answer when he said: I do not know the Qur'an and I do not know the Bible. From me he does not have to read it from cover to cover, but then he should not quote it from studies that put it completely aside. There is one very large form of institutionalized hatred of Jews in the Netherlands, and it is called Islam. Surely there's someone in the ministry who can look into that for the minister? And then the Minister can get to work with that. I asked: how does the Minister get the hatred of the Jews out of Islam? How's he gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u174	I recently had a conversation with representatives of the three world religions, representatives of the Jews, the Muslims and the Christians. They have started working together, precisely to stimulate dialogue between the different beliefs and to take away images of fear or images of hatred. I think this is a very positive development, because this is how the dialogue is conducted and there is no polarisation based on images or developments elsewhere. The investigations I have just quoted are trying to answer the question put by Mr De Graaf yesterday. I'm trying to answer your questions as best I can, but I don't see any reason to link those things one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u175	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u176	Finally, indeed, Mr President. That is final, I believe, in the debate today. When it comes to anti-Semitism... We got yesterday or when was it? The day before yesterday in EenVandaag seen that this is again increasing in the Netherlands. We have seen that Jews no longer dare to use yummy on the street. All that has to do with Islam. There are other factors involved, but at least 98% of them are involved. That's an estimate I'm willing to take. We can start dialogue and engage in inter-religious dialogues, but this is not going away with the very big factor, the biggest factor for the hatred of Jews we have in the Netherlands and continue to import. It doesn't go away, because it stays in those books, it continues to be prayed five times a day. What's the Minister gonna do about that? What can we do? Then you have to say, "I'm gonna make a line now, and I'm gonna de-islamize"? Otherwise, that hatred of the Jews won't go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u177	Mr De Graaf makes a one-to-one link between people who adhere to a religion and... For the Acts: Mr De Graaf now says it is the doctrine. Again, I am not a Bible connoisseur, but I think the Bible says that you should not follow other gods. At least that's what I understood once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u178	You got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u179	That seems to me to be a sensible starting point for this discussion. The most important thing is that we are indeed in dialogue with each other, that we are not going to threaten. That is why I am so satisfied with the developments and with the discussions that are currently taking place within the community. When I was there two weeks ago at the Kristallnacht commemoration, I noticed that the feelings of insecurity are indeed there and that they are also extremely frustrating for the community. The only solution is: out of polarization and in conversation with each other, and tackling threats, intimidation and violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u180	I can wholeheartedly agree with the Minister's last words, because if you are going to reason with a certain world view and look at sacred writings, you will indeed come to that kind of delusion. But that is not what my question to the Minister is about. My question concerns the following. The minister said there are trigger factors. One of these trigger factors was the Israel-Palestine conflict, which has been dragging on for years. Now we have recently had a discussion in the Chamber about the definition of anti-Semitism. I would therefore ask this Minister if he could comment more specifically on the trigger factor of the Israeli-Palestine conflict and on the phenomenon of anti-Semitism. We have also had a round table on the phenomenon of anti-Semitism with various scientists and experience experts, all of whom deal with this phenomenon in a different way. So I am fighting it wholeheartedly, but I would also like to challenge the Minister to go a little deeper into the trigger factor of the relationship or conflict between Israel and Palestine in relation to anti-Semitism. This does not need to be done immediately; it may be possible in the second term or in a letter. So I'm gonna ask the question very explicitly and then I'm gonna stop, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u181	I think the Minister's onto him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u182	Is criticism of the Israeli Government and the actions of the Israeli army in Palestine, the West Bank and Gaza anti-Semitism, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u183	I myself was not aware that this was a recent debate in the Foreign Affairs budget, so I honestly do not know the background to this discussion. I really should get into that. In my response to Mr De Graaf, I reflected on the research I have just quoted and identified the trigger factors. Of course, I can always send the research to Mr Kuzu. That's where it's written. But I just don't know the discussion about the definition, so it seems very unwise for me to speculate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u184	I am indeed looking forward to the underlying methods of measuring this trigger factor. The relationship has to be clear as far as I'm concerned. That is why I am asking my question twice, Mr President, because I was a little more long-winded the first time. As far as I am concerned, there is indeed anti-Semitic sentiment in society and that is reprehensible. That is what we see in football and in various other places. But I am referring to the relationship between anti-Semitism and what is happening in the conflict between Israel and Palestine. Criticism of the Israeli government and criticism of the actions of the Israeli army are not anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u185	I understand that there has been a heated debate in this Chamber, but I do not know the finesses, so I do not think it would be wise to respond to that. This debate was held with the Foreign Minister, I believe. Yes, I see Mr Stoffer nodding. I just don't know the background, but I'm going to send the investigation I just referred to to to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u186	Did that bring you to the end of the integration block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u187	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u188	There are a few more questions from the members. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u189	For Mr De Graaf, I also sent a large written set this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u190	Sure, but I still miss a part of that. I gave a reasonable speech yesterday about the burka ban and its enforcement in Amsterdam. I asked whether the Minister is prepared to send the mayor on behalf of the Crown, the Minister is part of the Crown.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u191	I believe that, during Question Time last Tuesday, Secretary of State Knops responded in the absence of Mrs Ollongren, who is talking about this. But again, unfortunately, I do not see everything that is happening in the Chamber. I also understand that Mrs Halsema sent a press statement yesterday. Actually, I'd like to leave it at that. I believe that the debate was held last Tuesday in Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u192	It has been debated, but there is a debate today on the Social Affairs budget and there are issues on integration, and Mr De Graaf wants to ask his question on this. He asked that question. If you answer first...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u193	Mr President, Mr De Graaf's question was whether Mrs Halsema should be removed from the mayor's office. That's the question. I think that does not fit in with the Social Affairs budget, I say honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u194	I think that's a good fit. It doesn't matter what ministry that debate is with. This case, the ban on burqa, has a lot to do with the integration of people. So the debate can be conducted perfectly from that angle. Therefore, because it is very topical and because yesterday the mayor of Amsterdam responded in a press statement and was stabbing in the city council there.... we can say that she has had all the time to knit the law, to turn the law. And she didn't. In fact, she just keeps ignoring this penal code and saying it's not a priority. This is about criminal law. So we could have done it with JenV. Indeed, it could have, but the mayor has had all the time and it is unique in history that the enforcement of criminal law in this way is ignored by a mayor. That's impossible, isn't it? Then one of those mayors should just get the hell out of here. There's no other choice. That can be reported here by any other minister on behalf of the Crown.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u195	In the absence of Mrs Ollongren, who is talking about this, last Tuesday, in Question Time, Secretary of State Knops said that the law was passed both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. I only saw it in writing; so I didn't get to see it live. The preparation is now under way. It concerns specific prohibitions: education, public buildings,... I should also like to look at the chairman, because I think she is a spokesperson in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u196	Transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u197	Public transport. This preparation is in full swing and I believe that it has also been responded by saying that the law applies to the whole of the Netherlands. The mayor of Amsterdam gave a statement on this yesterday, which I did not quite read. The city council of Amsterdam will discuss this with the mayor. From the national side, I think it has been explained in detail how this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u198	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u199	Yeah, but we'll see where it leads. The fact that the mayor does not back down in her claims, in her actions and in her willingness to do so leads to the colleges... It's a little more nuanced than I said yesterday, but okay, Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences is already half Islamicized, so it's going to happen completely. But now public transport also has to deal with this: how are we going to maintain it? There is, therefore, even before the implementation has to take place, a wide-ranging discussion on how to maintain it thanks to the Mayor of Amsterdam, who is ignoring criminal law. Then later we can all go back on cigars in the tram and in the bus, because the bus driver can't do anything. The Minister will love smoking again in public transport. I can't recommend it to anyone. There may also be MPs who are okay with that, but that is how things are going to go down. A mayor who is such a bad example for society and who ignores criminal law, I say it again; I have said it three times. The Minister does not want that, but I would like to have said it and made it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u200	That is the right of Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u201	Integration is about being able to participate in freedom. The Minister and the VVD very much agree. It is precisely for this reason that my colleague Mr Becker has this week called attention to and the alarm bell about self-determination, about the number of people who suffer from, or have to deal with, cultural oppression and honour-related violence in a migrant community. Yesterday, I asked for it. In the written set, the Minister replied neatly, but the impression is that he does not see a very large role for himself here and that he leaves it to the Ministry of Economic Affairs in particular. I would very much like to hear from this Minister whether he would not want to take the lead in this matter himself, because that seems to us to be very appropriate on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u202	I understand the question. I also discussed this with Mrs Becker in the AO last week. What happened in 2018? The Minister for Health, Mr De Jonge, took over the coordinating role on the subject of "self-decision" when he took office, but we are all involved. So the Departments of Justice and Security and Foreign Affairs, as well as Social Affairs, are also involved in that action plan. In the light of the motion adopted, we will intervene intensively in this respect, also given the background to Mrs Becker's motion tabled at the WHO two weeks ago. But it does not belong anywhere in the broader Action Plan Violence, which involves working with police, justice, healthcare institutions and people who pick up the first signs of violence. Given the background to the motion, the Ministry of Social Affairs will certainly interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u203	Thank you. This is partly reassuring and partly encouraging the Minister to tackle the role in the field of integration in particular, and thus to play a decisive role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u204	Originally, SZW was the initiator of the action plan, but eventually it was decided to take this together at VWS, to increase the impact force and to get a better integrated picture. However, given the debate we have had at WHO Integration and given the motion that has been adopted, I see a role for me as Minister of Integration. So I'm gonna pick it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u205	On this subject, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u206	One supplementary question, because it is a very valid point, which the SP wholeheartedly supports. The subject of genital mutilation, for example circumcision, is an extremely painful one. Does the government agree that recovery operations should be reimbursed in health insurance? Because then those surgeries can take place as best they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u207	Mr De Jonge, or, more importantly, Mr Bruins, is talking about this, because this will be about curative care. I really can't just answer that. I'm sure there'll be a discussion about this, but I just don't know it. So I think it would be wise to take this up with Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u208	I understand that, and you are entitled to do so, but I very much agree with Mr Wiersma, who said: can't you take a little more lead here? As Minister of Integration, this is your deal and it is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u209	I'm not talking about the health insurance package. I believe that this debate should really be conducted with Mr Bruins or De Jonge, and not with the budget of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u210	This debate was indeed also held during the debate on the VWS budget. It is an advantage that as a small fraction you can do several budgets. I would like to ask the Minister what he thinks that the VVD is trying to do a very good job with this, but voted against it when the motion was on the agenda about recovery payments for genital mutilation. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u211	I really have no idea what the VVD Group has been considering. You really need to ask the VVD Group and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u212	In view of the fact that this question has been asked, I now give Mr Wiersma the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u213	This is really too easy, because Mr Van Dijk and Mr Kuzu know that this is exactly what investigations are going on. It looks at how you can do that most carefully. I have at least understood that so far, because I was not present at the same debate, but my colleague Mr Becker did. So I think this is really too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u214	We're not gonna have the debate among ourselves. I gave you an opportunity, but back to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u215	But what does the Minister think about the VVD hiding behind investigations that are now under discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u216	The Minister has no views on the views of a political group in this House. You have to check me, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u217	I think we got to the block of execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u218	I'll continue with the performance. The implementation is a very important issue for me. We've seen in recent years that it gets really stuck sometimes. Take the fraud discussion at the UWV, the discussion about the Tax Administration and the late maintenance of some executive agencies. This is why I will continue to work with the Secretary of State on improving implementation next year. We invest heavily in the services of the UWV and the SVB, the Social Insurance Bank. This is about visible things, such as more personal services, so more contact with the customers, and more insurance doctors, because we really have a capacity problem with the insurance doctors. But these are also non-visible issues, such as ICT systems and support processes, which are extremely important for the continuity of the service process. This year, together with the Secretary of State, I sent you the first note on the state of implementation. This is a new initiative to give a better idea of how the implementation organisations are now in place, what their performance is and what they are running into. In future, we will send it twice a year because we think it is so important to discuss with your Chamber the state of implementation, what is good but also matters that are less good and where we may be able to take preventive action early in order to avoid problems later. Against this background, fraud involving benefits is unacceptable and unfair. It cuts its feet away from policy and undermines the confidence of its citizens. Yesterday, Mrs Van Brenk was right to talk about anger with people who get a fine if they have turned in a form too late, but at the same time they also see that there is massive fraud by desks, intermediaries of migrant workers. I very much agree with Mrs Van Brenn. Indeed, it undermines confidence in the system and confidence in the social security system. In October, I therefore announced a series of measures to prevent and tackle fraud in the WW. For example, the UWV will tighten up the address check, better match with the Basic Registration Personal data and make sure that someone is in the Netherlands looking for work, so really is involuntaryly unemployed. To get more control over the intermediaries, we're going to register them. I recently went to work at the UWV to see how it works out in practice and what is interesting about things. I promised you that in January I would come forward with a whole set of letters to explain the state of play in dealing with WW fraud to your Chamber. Against this background I would like to stress once again that the UWV rows very well with the belts it has, against a considerable flow of tasks and complex tasks. During the work visits I have recently made to the UWV I have talked to a lot of employees and also met people on the workplace. I would like once again to express my appreciation for their openness and commitment, because they are doing an extremely good job in a very complicated task and task. I have also seen what the news about Poland's fraud has done to the organisation itself, against the backdrop of major cuts and digitisation in recent years and many applications for benefits due to high unemployment in certainly the crisis years. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u219	Just when it comes to those employees at the UWV, I have the following question. Now that there are such huge problems with the implementation of the WW, also looking at all these frauds, such as Poland's fraud, my question is why more opportunities are being created for further fraud. I am thinking, for example, of the European Parliament's plan to ensure that people who come from Eastern Europe, such as Poland, and have worked one day in the Netherlands, should then be entitled to a WW benefit in the Netherlands. That's never supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u220	I very much agree with Mr De Jong; that does not happen often, so it is good to emphasise that. Next Thursday I will have another European Council, an EPSCO Council in Brussels. This concerns 883, on negotiations currently taking place in the European Parliament with the European Commission on the adaptation of the Social Security Regulation. The Netherlands has always strongly argued against shortening that period. We're still lobbying each other to prevent this. By the way, the Netherlands voted against this directive, but it was adopted by a majority of Member States. It is now in the European Parliament. It's being discussed now. I believe that it will be voted on in Strasbourg in December and then we will have to resume the negotiations. But I very much agree with Mr De Jong that it would be undesirable that we should not be able to check whether someone who is not in the Netherlands but abroad is really looking for work but is receiving benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u221	The Minister says we shouldn't want that. We must not want so much from Europe. What happens next is that it is decided in Europe or in the European Parliament and then implemented in the Netherlands, whatever the Minister thinks. Can the Minister undertake not to amend laws in the Netherlands in any way on the basis of what is being discussed in Brussels, particularly on this subject? So does he admit that from Europe there will never be any regulation that will give a Pole a WW benefit after working in the Netherlands for one day?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u222	I cannot, by definition, undertake to do so, because some of the directives adopted in Europe have a supranational effect. They must be implemented in the Netherlands. Apart from that, I agree with Mr De Jong on the substance of the matter. We work together with a large group of Member States that are also critical of this. We are trying to adapt this legislation by means of cooperation in Europe. The legislation also contains a lot of good elements, because it deals with the exchange of information, the handling of fraud and that sort of thing. So there are also very positive elements in it. But I agree with Mr De Jong on this point. We are trying to get this off the table with a group of like-minded countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u223	This is exactly what I'm talking about. In the Chamber, the Minister says: we shouldn't really want it. But then he says: there are a lot of positive things in these proposals. I think the Minister should be on social security, not Brussels. I believe that the Netherlands itself is very capable of making changes on the basis of what we are discussing here, and not on the basis of what is being discussed in Brussels. So what we are about to get is that that plan is right on the table in Brussels. The minister says he doesn't really want to, but then he implements it. Because he didn't promise to stop it here today. He could also say as a minister: I am not implementing it; I am not going to do it, because I am the Minister for Social Affairs in the Netherlands and Brussels is not about it. Period!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u224	First of all, there are also very positive elements, especially for people who are border workers, who live in Germany and work in the Netherlands, or vice versa. They now have a lot of problems with matching social security. In practice, they really suffer from the fact that they are active in two Member States. These are the positive elements; this helps people who face problems in practice. Secondly, we are members of the European Union. Together with other Member States, we are trying to make the policy to solve these kinds of problems. To do that, we need to find majorities, and we need to work together to get things done. That's what I'm doing. Next week, I will go back to Brussels and spend a day in the EPSCO, precisely to avoid these kinds of elements, which I find undesirable, against the background of the fact that there are also a lot of good things in it that make international cooperation more possible, that enable fraud to be tackled, that allow enforcement. Next week we will also be talking about the ELISA, the European Labour Authority. That is an important step forward when it comes to inspections that work together. International cooperation is therefore of enormous benefit. Mr. Chairman. The amendments. As far as I know, seven amendments have been tabled. We'll discuss it briefly. I will deal with five now and the Secretary of State will discuss two later. First of all, I would like to mention Mr Van Kent's amendment on lowering the age of AOW. I'd advise against that, of course. We have had this amendment before. It costs 7 billion. We did not actually talk about the amendment yesterday, but I would advise against it. The amendment in part No. 8 by Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Nispen is about abolishing the low-income advantage to transfer the money to the OCW budget for movement education. The cabinet has no intention of lowering LIV. I therefore also advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 29 by Mr Van Kent proposes to set up a fund alongside the existing OBR. Bearing in mind Mr Heerma's comment on this point, which I made a commitment earlier today, I do not recommend the amendment. I am sympathetic to the proposal contained in Amendment No. 31 by Mr Bruins. Agriculture is a high-risk sector. The sector is working hard to reduce the number of accidents and exposure to dangerous substances. I therefore leave the opinion to the Chamber on this amendment. Finally, Mr Wiersma and Mr Heerma's amendment on the Craft Academy. I have already said that I find it very sympathetic. I think it's a good initiative. I therefore give the House's verdict on that amendment. Mr. Chairman. That was my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u225	Thank you. Then I'll suspend for five minutes before the changement and we'll be back in a minute. We'll continue at 3:06 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u226	The next item is the first term of office on the Social Affairs and Employment budget. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for the reply, in which she will address, after an introduction, a broad offensive, the fight against poverty and debt, enforcement and the fight against fraud, which will probably include labour market discrimination, as the Minister has just indicated, and work on health and safety. I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u227	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by thanking the Chamber for its input. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber very much. I have already answered some of the questions in writing and I will also respond orally to a number of other questions. You just mentioned the cubes. Broad offensive, more people at work, tackling poverty and debt, enforcement and the fight against fraud and working healthy and safe. But before I begin, I would like to tell your Chamber that it is also an honour and a pleasure for me to discuss this budget with you. A budget full of plans, full of futures and, as far as I am concerned, perspective, which focuses on participation and inclusion. The goal is that people can participate. And I look forward to further shaping this with your room. 'Cause it doesn't come off the ground by itself. We must work hard together on this, relying on each other and also on the people and the parties in the country, with whom I am also constantly in conversation. I see initiative, initiative and movement everywhere in society, whether it is full-time work for people with disabilities, dealing with debt or combating discrimination in the labour market. I've noticed that we often share these goals. It is a society in which everyone can participate in a dignified way and it is about people who take responsibility for it. This requires fair opportunities and simple rules. And where rules apply, we also need to maintain them. That too has my full attention. And even though not everyone shares the same path to the solutions, as long as we find each other on what we tackle problems and what we want with them, we will at least continue to hear each other. I feel the ambition and need of your Chamber to take great steps, and I fully share that ambition. Because this is the time to help people with disabilities easily and pay for work, to assist the 1.4 million households at risk of debt in the fight against these debts, or to launch the attack on unfair discrimination in the labour market, and, of course, to combat fraud by carefully and decisively maintaining it where necessary. That's what I want to do, and that's what I'm gonna do. I've already sent proposals for that to your room. You can expect me, despite the necessary legislative changes and procedures, to focus on the retina. If it was ever the time, it's now. Against this background, I will be happy to continue looking with your Chamber for new opportunities and new solutions, to address important issues, where it can be done in consultation and if it cannot be done on the basis of an open and honest discussion. Because only through cooperation can we achieve solid solutions. Last week, at a meeting of the Edwin van der Sar Foundation, I heard someone say, "Only you might go faster, but together you'll move on." I like that motto. It requires efforts from all of us, and I have seen a lot of that in all the political groups and also in social partners over the past year, including during the many discussions on work visits in the country. That's what gives hope. I now come to my policy priorities. I would like to begin with the first theme: the broad offensive. Because work is incredibly important. Fortunately, by far the majority of people in our country have jobs. The fact that as many people as possible work is also important for the sustainability of our social system, so that we can take care of each other when things go a little less. Unfortunately, a job is not for everyone. Sometimes it doesn't work for a while; sometimes people stand against their will for a long time. Like almost half the people with disabilities. People with disabilities deserve a job perspective. They are extremely important to our society. They're part of it. Every human being is unique. There are many people in our country with disabilities or chronic illness. A lot of them can get to work on their own. Others need backup. Sometimes this is light support in the sense of amenities, for example a custom keyboard or a custom workspace. Some people need intensive support, temporary or structural. And there is a group of people with disabilities who are unable to earn the minimum wage per hour on their own. Especially for them, I launched the broad offensive. This is part of my path with your Chamber to an inclusive labour market, in which everyone gets the chance to participate, because working together contributes to living together. Half the people with disabilities are on the sidelines. We all want to see that differently. That is why, in my letter of 20 November, I made proposals to make it easier for employers to hire people, for job seekers to pay more work and for jobseekers and employers to find each other, and to encourage sustainable jobs. Mr Peters asked me about the nature of the broad offensive. He asked me, in my words: is it a talk or is it a to-do list? In the letter of 7 September, I outlined a number of guidelines for helping more people with disabilities to work. I prepared them in the letter of 20 November and supplemented them with additional topics based on the consultation I had with all those involved. That's what I'm gonna be working on in the next few days. As far as I am concerned, the letter of 20 November is the starting point. I have also tried to indicate a direction and a clear timetable. I think it is important that we take meaningful steps to help more people with disabilities to work and submit the necessary legislative changes to your Chamber in the course of 2019. That makes it a to-do list. In order to make it easier for people with disabilities to get to work, I would like to open the possibility in the Participation Act to apply for tailor-made support from the municipality. A similar possibility already exists in the Social Support Act. Mr Gijs van Dijk asks if I am prepared to give people with disabilities a legal right to support. I fully support the importance of this adequate support. As far as I am concerned, the starting point is that support is more consistent with people's needs and applied more uniformly than is currently the case. But there must be room for customization for the professional, because that professional also has the opportunity to assess what is needed. In my opinion, municipalities can then develop the municipal offer of a job coach and other municipal facilities under the regulation. Municipalities have an obligation to do so. I also ask a working group of municipalities, stakeholders and experts to make proposals for a model regulation before the summer of 2019, because I have also noticed that a model regulation is often followed. This proposal also involves a legislative amendment. It'll come through your room, of course. Then Mr Heerma pointed out that people with an additional challenge, as he put it, are not easy to get to work and are also concerned. Because if things go wrong at work, Mr Heerma asks, are they entitled to that same benefit again? I also recognise in many conversations that people with disabilities do not always feel safe to work from their benefit. And I also think it is important for people to be able to participate in the most appropriate place for them, whether that is daily spending in the context of the Wmo, sheltered work or regular work. In this respect, I would also refer to the motion by Mr Hermans and Mr Bergkamp on the VWS budget. These members also stress the importance of a smooth flow between the various arrangements and arrangements. In general discussions on the Participation Act, too, I strongly considered this with the Committee. That's why I started the project Simple Switching in the Participation Chain. In practice, it should be easier to fall back on the old benefit if the step to work is not, or is not, successful. People also indicate in the many personal conversations I have had that things are going well in some periods of their lives and that they could then take a step. But because of the fear that when things go a little less, they can't go back, that behind them that door of security of protection has fallen shut, they don't take that step. That is, of course, extremely unfortunate, especially if we want to look more at what people can do, rather than at what people can't do and if we also need the talents of everyone. For example, we are going to make it possible for people who are going to work from Wajong benefit to always fall back on that benefit in the event of increased incapacity for work. For people with disabilities covered by the Participation Act, I'm going to look with municipalities to see how the outflow and fall back on the Participation Act can be easier and faster. Right now, we're putting the finishing touches to that. I will inform you in detail at the end of the year about the progress of the Simple Switch project in the Participation Chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u228	This is indeed an important point. We have discussed with the Secretary of State earlier that you can fall back at the moment when it is not possible. I also assume that this will mean a legislative change, because I understand that this cannot be done now because of legal impossibility. That's a side question, but my real question was about legal support. It's a very large group. I referred in my first term to someone from Zeeland who is not working for a long time and who has a welfare allowance, which was referred back by the municipality with the words 'you are not in the category we are actively helping'. Does this mean there is support for this gentleman? Can I understand it like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u229	I certainly do not rule out the inclusion of legislation. This is a really good point. Several laws have to do with this. You can see, for example, that there is a certain degree of... I would not take the word "random" entirely into my mouth, but there is a certain degree of coincidence which leads some people, for example, to the activating daily spending and other people in sheltered work. We want to make that simpler. I certainly do not rule out amendments to the law. Mrs. Van Brenk asked about this, too. She asked how we can give people who are on welfare for a long time the perspective of being helped. I shall come back to that in a little more detail later. The example you gave me is really a motivation to get started on this, because I find it indigestible that people who spend a long time in the welfare or other scheme are supposedly left alone at some point but are actually written off for society. I am also talking to municipalities to see how they can approach and give perspective to people who have been in benefits for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u230	Thank you for this reply from the Secretary of State. I would add just one group, a rather large group: the non-contributorys. They don't fall into the system, but they're at home. They often want to get to work, but they can't claim anything. Is this gonna include this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u231	I did not say for nothing that the Chamber has a great ambition and drive, which I also share very much. We're getting all the topics together now. Also on this group I come back separately, but let it be clear that also from the clients, for example, it has been indicated that this group, especially young people, is often just off the boat with the municipalities. The municipality has no financial compensation for this, but is obliged to help them. Sometimes there are some signs that they're getting less priority. One of the aspects of the broad offensive is that there is a discussion with municipalities about how they can specifically bring this group in. I think there are a lot of human reasons to do that. But even if you only look at it from a financial point of view, there often comes a moment in people's lives that they are at that gate. Sometimes you've lost years in which you could have helped someone go to work or an education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u232	Half the people with disabilities don't have jobs. That's very painful. I'd like to talk about the Secretary of State's vision. There are all plans that we are going to look at with interest, but this also has to do with the Participation Act introduced by the previous cabinet, which also included the closure of social services. Is the Secretary of State so cavalier to acknowledge that the closure of the social security system was too rigorous and that there is nothing wrong with looking at how we can fix it, in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u233	We have had a lot of debates on this. I notice two things are mixed up. On the one hand, access to the Social Employment Services Act is closed. However, there are still a lot of social work facilities developing into a social development company. In many places that is part of a desired development, because we see that they help people to get to work with a regular employer. Where that is not possible, they give people a place in, for example, sheltered work. This has happened in recent years in the context of a financial crisis, in which we have had to make a lot of cuts. We have now seen, for example, that people have remained on waiting lists that we all thought and hoped would have been able to help them to work, including through the Participation Act and the Job Agreement. For example, the SCP has investigated this. This is an investigation into an otherwise small part of the target group of the Participation Act, but people who had certain expectations because they have been on the waiting list since the time of the Social Services Act. I think this should motivate us to do so. I also test that motivation with the Chamber and with the civil society organisations to look at: if we want to see the inclusive society in which we have an inclusive labour market, but we also have a specific group of people who are unable to earn it independently, how can we help these people to actually participate? I believe that social work companies, social development companies, can play a major role in this. However, we have agreed with each other that they are controlled by municipalities. I am talking to the congregations about this; I have also had a lot of discussions with your Chamber on this. I see great added value in the municipalities. We have also agreed with each other that we are going to look here in the Chamber to see how we can continue to use the infrastructure that these companies offer and, where possible, optimise to help people on the road. In the letter I sent, I took it together by saying: we're taking a picture of what it's like now. I asked the ESC to play a role in this and also to take up the discussion on what we want with posting facilities in the labour market regions. That's how I open the discussion. I would also like to draw her away from the purely financial debate that we have always had with each other, because at the same time municipalities have been given much more and wider instruments in the social domain, with corresponding financial flows, in order to guide this group to work. We're coming out of the crisis now. I think it is very important that people at the root of the labour market also find that the crisis is over. I can't go ice in one night, but we can go together in the labour market region and see how we can take a step further. As far as I am concerned, the social development companies are an important part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u234	It's a long answer. It is true that I am concerned with that concept of 'inclusive'. That is of course a wonderful ideal: everyone together, at school, at work, you name it. But does the Secretary of State dare to acknowledge that the concept of inclusiveness knows its limits? It is a beautiful ideal, but for some people it might be better to have a separate provision, a social work facility or a social development company; call it what you want. That is my question about the vision. Does this new cabinet dare to say: perhaps the previous cabinet went a little too hard in believing in that inclusive society, no matter how beautiful it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u235	This budgetary treatment is a bit challenging to philosophical considerations. This is perhaps also due to Mr Renkema's maiden speech, which was very beautiful and with which I would like to congratulate him. I'm gonna allow myself to say something about that anyway. I really go for that inclusive society, where it's my intrinsic motivation to get people to participate as much as possible in places where people meet. Let me just say it without creating new contradictions. I want people working in their workplace, people with disabilities and people without disabilities to work side by side, and it is normal for people working side by side in ordinary organisations, as I see now in many places. In my opinion, an explicit recognition of the fact that not everyone can work in a regular environment lies in the simple fact that we have agreed with each other that there is sheltered work for the group of people who can't do that, building again on a tradition, including a previous cabinet. For us, the challenge is now the following: that would also be my vision for the issue we are now facing. How do we ensure that as many people as possible work regularly and that we make people who can't work sheltered? How can we make the regulation so that those who need it also get there, without turning into a situation that in the past has led us to put people in a secluded situation who could have worked regularly? Sometimes I encounter employers who say: you know what, just do me at the end of the month an invoice from the SW company, then I have fulfilled my obligations. Fortunately, I meet many more employers who say: I want those people on the work floor with me and I want to see colleagues working side by side. I am aiming for the second situation. The first situation is undesirable. I'm looking for laws and regulations that will guide people in the right direction and get people the place they need, but which doesn't have the perverse effect of putting a lot of people apart. We shouldn't create some kind of modern indulgence that would allow you to buy off your responsibility. I wouldn't want to, and you don't want to. That will be the string dance act that we will have to do with each other in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u236	Locking up. Maybe the Secretary of State and I can get together. This is exactly the point: as many people as possible in a regular place. If it doesn't work, there's got to be an alternative. It's called sheltered work. In my first term, I asked whether we could make sure that the people who are now falling between shore and ship, the people who are not regular and are not sheltered, the door to sheltered work is also open, so that they do not remain at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u237	I recognize Mr Jasper van Dijk's plea. I recall from previous debates that Mr Gijs van Dijk, as well as Mr Peters and the Raemakers, asked how we could help the group that is just about to fall out of the boat without excluding a very large group. We're going to evaluate the arrangement around sheltered work. We've already started it, and next year, I'm coming to the Chamber with that evaluation. It is very good to look together at the definition of the target group. I repeat that we really must avoid these perverse incentives. There were a lot of good things in the past, but we have also gone through a number of areas. I know that there are no pictures in the Acts, but you could, so to speak, see a pendulum that has gone all the way to the other side and now we need to find out where there is stability and balance. I think I can respond to a wish from several groups by explicitly involving this in the evaluation of sheltered work. That wish is certainly well expressed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u238	I have another question. I'm gonna go back in your answer for five minutes. It's about people coming out of benefits and going to work. If that doesn't work out for a while, it should be easier for them to go back to benefits. This is now being developed and the Minister will keep us informed. I'm happy about that, because that's important. My question is about another group of people. I'm talking about people who just have their lives stable with all kinds of surcharges and related intricacies, for example people in the Wajong. They think it's a potential catastrophe if they start moving, because they can only really lose things. In all cases, that is not entirely impossible either. Do you dare to say to those people: move and work, because if it goes financially wrong there is a red button that lets you go back to where you came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u239	We are in the process of making a proposal to make sure that it is rewarding for people to start working on a benefit basis. Over the past decades, we have often made income-oriented schemes, which have not always promoted participation. A very well-known phenomenon in the Wajong is the sawing tooth. That seems very technical, but a lot of people know it. If you go to work for an hour more, you fall into a different class and as a result you fall very much back into income. That's a huge obstacle. That is the legitimacy for harmonising regulations in the Wajong. I want it to pay off when people go to work. I also see the fear described by Mr Peters. Can I go back? Didn't the door fall into the lock behind me? I think we should combine these two things. In the ministry, we've had a lot of conversations with people to illustrate that fear. I've had a lot of conversations myself. This is an excellent group for which social protection must provide protection. I told you, we're putting the finishing touches to this. I want to include this in the simple switch plan that I will be leaving the Chamber in December. I would like to deal with this subject. I want to see what we can do about this particular point. My ambition is that it's rewarding when people go to work so they don't have to go back. At the same time, I realize the complex situation with, for example, surcharges. In your situation, you might find out you deserve less. I'd like to avoid that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u240	I welcome the answer of the Secretary of State and the recognition of this real problem among many people. That's just why they don't want to work. They want to, but they don't dare. If there's an adequate answer to that, you'll help a lot of people, so thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u241	I think it is about two issues in the debate at the moment. It's about simple switching, it's about people falling between shore and ship and it was also about sheltered work. With that simple switch, I'm very happy. Under the heading "stimulatory sheltered work" I read all kinds of things about numbers and that municipalities can learn things from each other, but I wondered what concrete measures the government is already taking apart from the simple switch, which is very good to really stimulate sheltered work an sich more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u242	Several, including, for example, a working group in which different municipalities look at where the obstacles lie. A number of municipalities are very active in the field of sheltered work and also provide really good numbers of places for people. We asked them: what do you do other than municipalities with whom it doesn't work? They actually sit around the table to see what they can do. In this way, we provide very concrete tools for municipalities themselves. We also have programs about this with Divosa. When you put people from the practice around the table, you often see that they come to solutions with each other. In addition, I think it is important that we also continue to pay attention to the fact that people can ask this for themselves. Municipalities are still behind. They have taken quite a step in the past year. I am certainly positive about that, too, but if you look at the realization of what happened in relation to what should have happened, then we are still lagging behind. So I'm on top of this. We also have many meetings in the country to learn from each other in a practical sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u243	That's exactly what I read in the letter. I think it is also good to exchange experiences. Things like the Programme Council for Municipalities are all fine, but I do not yet see exactly what the incentive is. I also read about the evaluation; that's what it was about. The evaluation of sheltered work was completed in 2019. Can the Secretary of State also indicate the month that has been completed and the deadline for informing the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u244	I can confirm that in second term, but it is out of my mind in autumn 2019. Especially if we look not only at the practical aspects, but also at the issues that have already been raised in several debates, such as the definition of the target group and the involvement of regional infrastructure, it will be a bit more difficult to evaluate and then it will come to the Chamber in the autumn of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u245	If it is different, you will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u246	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u247	However, back a bit, because this is also about the social development companies. I complimented the Secretary of State on the letter. We were very different here last year, at least from the opposition. I think she's headed in the right direction. But can it place a little more urgency on the social development companies, which we regard as crucial in helping people to work? Is it possible to make a plan of action? 'Cause she's taking a picture now and she's talking. That is also according to previously adopted motions. But can she show a little more urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u248	Apart from the fact that I am at a social development company several times a month because it is very inspiring and very educational, I think that we have also put down the urgency of time here by working with that photo in January 2019 and also looking at those 35 labour market regions on this subject also went a motion by Mr Renkema. In the spring of 2019, we will launch this exploration of the posting facilities for the implementation of the Participation Act. I also asked the ESC to play a role in this, because I really want all these social partners to do so from the start. With the time schedule January and spring 2019 I also think that the pressure is on that. It's necessary, too. Because I said it for a reason in my introduction: the economy is doing well now. We need to build that infrastructure now, because it is also a very important area where I have to be realistic in its own area, a vulnerable group of people. When things don't go well at some point, it's often the first group that goes out. So I want to build that infrastructure right now. That urgency is very clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u249	In my view, this includes the fact that the Secretary of State is on top of that. We don't want to lose everything we've built now. These development companies are crucial, as one of the elements to help people get to work, sheltered or regular. This includes financial resources. We always hear sounds from the companies themselves. They say, "We can't hold out like this any longer." This is due to an earlier austerity of a previous cabinet. I've also seen the Secretary of State's answers. How can she take that? Because I hear good companies, for example in Lelystad, saying: we can get to work, but we really miss some money in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u250	At least with that photo, in combination with that thermometer we already have, I want to see how those differences have been built up. I also see interesting examples of SW companies working together with private organisations and no matter how they develop. I also see examples of SW companies that are functioning well, but are lagging behind due, for example, to scale. That's why that picture is important to me. I have indicated, also in that letter, that this is the path of desirability. In all discussions, I do not avoid questions about finances, on any subject, but I am also very honest. I am now working within the financial frameworks that exist. Should there be more money needed on a subject that could be any subject in the broad-offensive letter, then I simply have to run the regular route. So on the one hand, I want to be very clear about my agenda. On the other hand, I am just being very honest about the financial feasibility of things and I am working within the existing financial frameworks for the time being. I am in consultation with municipalities, for example, facilitating by looking at why one company is doing well and the other less. How can you make smart connections to those budgets? I know how sensitive it is. You will not hear me say that there is a huge bucket of money going to municipalities and that they all have to do it. For many municipalities it is a very difficult theme. They're gonna have to make really smart connections. I'm really willing to take a good look at that with congregations. I also see many examples of municipalities doing this innovatively. So, as far as I am concerned, there are no taboos, no vetos in the whole broad offensive letter, but I do separate feasibility and desirability from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u251	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u252	Then I note that there is no financial space now. But if it is necessary in the near future, the Secretary of State is prepared to look at the financial frameworks as well, without making a commitment here. Then maybe we can help with the Spring Paper 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u253	I just want to be very transparent. You can never have a discussion about the desirability if you have to have settled the whole feasibility in advance. However, in the context of restraint with promises, I would like to leave it here so explicitly and transparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u254	Last year, a motion was adopted by the PVV on the realisation of sheltered work. The Secretary of State then said that she would talk to the municipalities to fight it for each other. Now I was wondering, also in the wake of Mr Van Dijk's interruption of the SP, how things stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u255	Mr De Jong is right to make a point. I also know him as an ardent advocate of sheltered work and especially the social development companies, formerly SW companies. This is one of the reasons why I can say that I am glad that a catch-up has been made compared to last year's realisation figures. However, it is not so great that we have also achieved the target situation. So there's still work to be done. What I do see, among other things, is that people now have the right to be protected by the Court of Justice too, to say "I want to be eligible for that sheltered work', is that there is a huge increase in this. Previously it was municipalities that had to pass people through, and then it really remained very behind. But there's still work to be done. That is why this is a subject of constant attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u256	It is, of course, very good that the Secretary of State is paying full attention to this. That's really good. But can the Secretary of State give us a little more insight into how these conversations have gone and what the municipalities then run into? If the Secretary of State cannot do so now, can she undertake to do so in a letter before the end of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u257	One of the things Mr Raemakers also referred to is that we have put municipalities together to see what bottlenecks they face. I am not going to wait until the 2019 evaluation if there are any bottlenecks that we can now settle. That also helps municipalities learn from each other. So that is a very concrete matter. In addition, we have organised meetings in the country to invite municipalities to discuss this with people. I always find it strange when an alderman says to me: I have people who never come out of welfare again. Then I think: go see if, for example, people have such a distance from the labour market that they can be eligible for sheltered work. This is what we are trying to achieve with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u258	In conclusion, I'm looking for something concrete. Because of course that motion has been there for a year. I am looking for something that will help the people who are following this debate and who are falling between shore and ship to get some certainty out of it. Can I agree with the Secretary of State that in the first quarter of 2019 she will come up with a plan, a letter, an overview of the facts she has agreed with the municipalities to come to that realization? This gives me room and at the same time the necessary urgency. Can the Secretary of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u259	I have a number of other issues to deal with: your motion, as I say to Mr De Jong, but certainly also Mr Raemakers' motion together with Mr Bruins on the plan to tackle a broad offensive. I also indicated to Mr O'Brien I will reflect on that motion later on that we then linked it to the pay dispensation effect in connection with the start-up we have now made, also a start in the sheltered work. However, as soon as we have realization figures again, I can say that I will, of course, forward them to the Chamber. I can provide an analysis of what the reason for, for example, growth is, but I would not like to do a full mid-term evaluation, because in the meantime, the discussion we have just had about, for example, the target group, is also going on about its effectiveness in a broader sense. But as soon as there are new results, I can, of course, forward them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u260	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for responding to the written questions. Certainly in view of the reply just to Mr Van Dijk, I am reassured that it really wants to make a real effort to maintain those development companies and that it wants to ensure that they increase the opportunities for all those people who need them. I miss the answer to one question, namely whether the Secretary of State is open to extending the accompanying bonus after 2020 in the investment part and not reducing the accompanying budget after 2021. That was a request from Cedris and Divosa. I do not see that in the written reply, but perhaps that is still part of the oral reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u261	I am puzzled for a moment, because I believe that Mr Gijs van Dijk had also asked a question about this and that he was provided with an answer, which unfortunately was not... I'm not ready right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u262	Is it okay to do that quietly in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u263	That is perhaps the most useful thing in view of the course of the debate. I recall that we gave Mr Gijs van Dijk an answer to such a question, which deals with the budget slide, because municipalities have less costs and on the other hand are also compensated for in the budget. There is also a full explanation of how it is developing and how the different rules interact, but I will also prepare it for the second term. I come to Mr Bruins, who pointed out that there is a single point of contact for the employer where government, education and healthcare institutions work together to provide continuous guidance to those who need it. Mr Bruins linked the continuous support of vulnerable people, both working and receiving benefits, to those employers' services. I would nevertheless like to distinguish between the counselling of people, including in the workplace, on the one hand, and employers' services on the other. I would like to point out that I share the view that for vulnerable people who cannot survive without support, an integrated approach to work and income, care, youth assistance and education may be necessary to participate in society and the labour market. For this purpose, I would like to promote continuity in the guidance of people in a vulnerable position with my colleagues from OCW, VWS and BZK and municipalities, as far as I am concerned, across age limits and areas of life, even if they work. This guidance for vulnerable people will usually take shape at local level. At the same time, bringing employers and jobseekers together is usually done at the level of the labour market region. As I point out in my letter on the broad offensive, I want to further strengthen employers' services and matching supply and demand. One of the three preconditions is that in each region there is a joint contact point for employers, provided by UWV and municipalities. Private employment agencies can also join. It is essential that there is good cooperation between the municipality, UWV and also the educational institutions behind the employers' window. Mrs Van Brenk has just mentioned it in an interrupting debate: the guidance of people from the assistance to work should be improved. She asked me to bet on it. Yeah, happy birthday. That's what I'm doing. Again, I have included a number of issues in the broad offensive. In the 35 working regions we have, municipalities together with UWV, employers, trainers and others will create more opportunities for job seekers, including those with a distance from the labour market. As far as I am concerned, it is a prerequisite for the success of these agreements that municipalities know their people. I also think it is important for municipalities to exchange experiences in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u264	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this. I'd like to make a request to her. We have received a petition here from FNV Woman about women in poverty. A lot of young mothers are in trouble. They're on welfare. They have a view of employment, but they do not receive training because they are not reimbursed and cannot bear the costs themselves. I see the Secretary of State on a lot of work visits. Maybe she can get in touch with this group, maybe she already knows this group to see what its role might be to help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u265	Sure. I have put a number of accents on emancipation policy in cooperation with the Minister for Social Affairs, especially when it comes to women's labour market position. This is really the group we say we should help. In the end, the task of municipalities is to see how they shape the guidance. I can't prescribe how municipalities do that. But I am very sensitive to the problem raised by Mrs Van Brenk, especially in the case of young mothers, because then you will give children a good start in life. I'm always up for a nice idea for a work visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u266	Well, I appreciate that very much. Thank you. I'll make sure you get in touch with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u267	Great, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u268	Glad the Secretary of State is willing to talk to colleagues from the other ministries about a more comprehensive view of the issue over life domains. Would it be prepared to inform the Chamber in six months' time of the progress of bringing together the ministers responsible and of the extent to which a joint approach can be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u269	Yes. I think that was also the question Mr Heerma asked the Minister. If I can combine those two, I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u270	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u271	Mr. Chairman. I was still in the process of mentoring people. I said municipalities should know their people. That is why I have had a map of how municipalities get their people in the picture and what that results in. I will also have an investigation conducted into the mentoring of people who are on long-term assistance. I will also spread these investigations to municipalities. Mr Wiersma asked me to make sure that the EUR 35 million available to the labour market regions twice, now that the candidate scout is also getting off the ground. We strongly support municipalities and labour market regions in making their candidates available for the job appointment in the candidate explorer. For example, the center municipalities received a financial contribution last year, actually as an incentive to get the number of municipal customer profiles in the system at the desired level. The UWV candidate explorer is not an objective but an important means of finding job seekers from the target group "jobs appointment." The Programme Council and the UWV also facilitate municipalities. In the meantime, I can report that the municipalities have made a catch-up. There are now over 6,000 profiles of candidates from municipalities in the candidate scout. That helps, but we're not just here with the candidate scout. As far as I am concerned, municipalities and UWV really speak to their job seekers with their competences, that they actually know the people and that they have them well in mind and also keep them in mind before they can enter and keep up-to-date data in systems. Mr Heerma has asked what hard agreements we as rulers will make with municipalities for both newcomers and oldcomers on matters such as working while retaining benefits, Flextension and offering a basic job as a stepping stone to a full-time job. Mr Heerma called for assistance not to be a terminal. It seems to be a lot of times now. Mr De Jong has also called for extensive attention to be paid to this issue. I understand the concerns of the MPs. The appeal of Mr Heerma and Mr De Jong but also of Mr Wiersma in his interruption also strengthens me to make agreements with municipalities. I recently heard an alderman say, if you spend three years with us on welfare, you'll be in it for an average of 12 years. Some groups are overrepresented. I think this is very, very undesirable. In order to help this group of people get to work, agreements with municipalities are needed. At the same time, I also see municipalities working in a very innovative way and helping people to work, for example the municipality of Veldhoven with its Social Impact Bonds and the municipality of Amsterdam with the project for status holders, which recently won the ESF Award. So I'm also trying to challenge municipalities to look at this in other ways. If you know that someone from a particular target group is on the benefit for an average of six and a half years or eight years, you could also say that you have a fictitious investment amount at the time he reports to you. Then it also pays to invest in people in a different way. I'd like to make that strike with congregations. I see good examples of this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u272	One of the reasons why, for example, non-Western immigrants are so overrepresented in the assistance is that many municipalities refuse to maintain the requirements for assistance, for example a language requirement. It's just that it's very often not maintained. There are municipalities that do. They don't need to get applause for that, because that's what they're supposed to do. I care about the municipalities that don't. I have a question for the Secretary of State. They've been talking to the municipalities for years. There's been a lot of consultation going on for years. This has been done in the past by different rulers. Is it not time that, in the interests of not only the assistance itself but in the interests of everything related to social security, we simply obliged the municipalities to maintain the requirements for benefits, for assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u273	I think we all agree that language is the first important step to be taken. That language requirement is there for a reason. In the coalition agreement, I was also instructed to make non-binding agreements with municipalities. That's my assignment. That's what I'm doing. I am also doing so with the full conviction that this is a very important matter. At the same time, I also see that there have been municipal elections and that there are now new lectures. So this is also the time to talk about this, because the monitors show that things are not going well everywhere. I will come back to that later. So this is a very important task for me. At the same time, the city council controls the college. So I have an important position: this is an obligation that municipalities have; it is a legal requirement. I'm going to make non-binding agreements with the municipalities. Then I always start that conversation. So that's what I started. I assume that local authorities also fully endorse the importance of language and that we can make good agreements on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u274	It has been said for years that there would be good agreements with municipalities. In the meantime, however, we constantly see that, if agreements are already made, municipalities that resign or simply do not carry out what they are supposed to do. What signal does it send to society if all kinds of people continue to get something when they are not entitled to it, and for the simple reason that it is not enforced? That's unacceptable. So there's been enough time to talk about it for years. It's just time to do it now. The Secretary of State is ultimately responsible. I ask her to make sure that they are maintained and, if they do not, to cut down on their budgets. If the Secretary of State doesn't want that, then it's a toothless tiger and we'll see next year that nothing has changed. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u275	For me, how important language is is first and foremost. As far as I'm concerned, there's a language requirement in welfare. It's in the law. On the basis of the coalition agreement, I have the mandate to make non-binding agreements on this matter with municipalities. I thought: in this treatment, I will make a nice satep by the contributions of Mr Renkema, Mr De Jong, Mr Heerma and Mr Wiersma, perhaps by stepping out of the ideological debate, namely, going from distrust to trust and about maintaining or not maintaining. I think it is important to say here that language is important, that municipalities have to do what they have to do, that I have a job to do, and that I am therefore going to make non-binding agreements. I'm working on it. That starts with saying very clearly here that I am not running away from this, but that I see Mr Heerma's plea in the Chamber as an encouragement to hold that discussion firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u276	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. This has been the subject of discussion for years. The PVV has tabled motions on this subject, but they have all been rejected. The simple thing I want to put forward here is this. Municipalities say they're not gonna maintain. Last year, this Secretary of State was also telling us that it's all in the coalition agreement, but a year later, nothing has changed. So nothing happened for a year. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore not to make any more non-binding agreements, but to force them to do so immediately and, if not, to cut the budget that municipalities get to pay for the assistance. Why doesn't the Secretary of State do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u277	It's in the law. That is also a statement that we all think it is important for people to speak the language. I'm working on that assignment. There have been conversations. That's what I always start with. I've organized meetings with municipalities to see how things are going and what they're running into. That is a very important follow-up for me. I always like to add the deed to the word. The word in the coalition agreement is: non-binding agreements with municipalities. That's my route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u278	I do not know exactly how long the Secretary of State's satepokker is to simplify the political extremes on this point. I do have a few questions about municipalities and welfare. A number of experiments are permitted under the Participation Act. An arrangement has been made for this, which expires in 2021. That means we'll be halfway through that arrangement next spring. There are several experiments in this field, which are based on trust and self-direction of benefit recipients. I would like to know whether the Secretary of State is prepared to inform the Chamber next spring about the status, progress and initial results of these experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u279	Mr President, allow me to say something about that. I did say it a little crazy, but I meant it. As far as I'm concerned, it's not or-or. It is not either anti-fraud and enforcement, or trust. It's en-and. All our social security benefits can only survive if people also know that they are only used if they are legal. That is sometimes a very complex situation. I went with a social detective this summer who found a pure case of fraud, but at the same time there was a question of help. That's the world of social detectives and enforcement. That is also the world of customer management. That is also the world of the social domain. That's why my plea would be to switch it over, not to or-or, but to and-and. I want you to be able to apply for social security in this country without shame if you need it, because everyone knows you're being controlled so that you can do it with your head held high. And that's my motivation to do this. This means that I sometimes take more turns than Mr De Jong would like and that I may be a little less straightforward than Mr Renkema would like, but it is my deep conviction that this nuance of that world, of the window, of those people, of that real world of life, should eventually be taken up in what we are doing here. Having said that: these experiments are of course interesting, but because they are part of a scientific process they cannot be provided with all kinds of conclusions. Moreover, I have read some interesting documentation on this subject, but I cannot draw any conclusions on this at this stage. For that, I really have to let go of the duration of those experiments. In spring 2020, I say it by heart, they will also be delivered from that scientific guidance. If I were to draw conclusions on this now or next year, it would be premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u280	I am certainly not asking for conclusions, because the duration of these experiments is still too short. I know that a scientific evaluation is foreseen, but at the same time, as a Member of Parliament, I am simply curious about what these 25 municipalities are doing with them at the moment, also in terms of policy, and what the Secretary of State thinks about it. So I would very much like to receive some more information on this next spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u281	I know that individual municipalities do provide documentation on their experiments. I myself have been very reluctant, also in commenting on it, precisely because it is scientific and because you have to do it over a somewhat longer period. So as much as I would like to do so, I do not think I can make a commitment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u282	In these experiments in welfare, I still hear a discrepancy with the Secretary of State. First, the Secretary of State says that she does not want to draw any conclusions at this stage because it is too early to do so, but at the same time she says that it is not whether or not to maintain or leave more freedom, but it is en-en. If I understand correctly, some of these experiments also carry out scientific research into what works better: does it work better to give a beneficiary trust and, for example, to give him/her additional income in addition to the welfare allowance, or does it work better to make a very strong commitment to enforcement with a beneficiary? I can't quite reconcile those two. If these investigations later show that one approach is simply significantly better, is the Secretary of State open to this? I'd really like to ask her that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u283	I think the number of people in welfare is so diverse that you don't have to take one approach per municipality, but you just have to look at it per person. I might say it a little bit on its Rotterdams, but we used to say: some people need a little support, and someone else a kick under his... bibs, ass. But that's what a customer manager does. We told each other that this customer manager knows that customer. That's why it's so important for the municipality to know who its people are. I am convinced that most people want to get to work and do the good things, but there are also always wheeldrivers. Now let the customer manager in the municipality make that difference. I see that this discussion in municipalities has ended up in the ideological trenches. Some municipalities do not want to use the word "counterperformance"; they say they are going to impose things on people. Other municipalities show that with a consideration people are needed again in society. And then I find it so unfortunate that some municipalities say that they do not do it because they see a political load at a word. I think we should go see what works. In the case of one beneficiary, this is a firm approach and in the case of the other beneficiary, that is support. That nuance, that trust, we gave to congregations, and I am very much in favour of that. At the time when there are outliers, Mr De Jong says in his story that there is too much fraud, and I also sometimes hear from municipal councils that on the subject of non-recoverable claims a taboo rest is actually 'ho'. For we can only maintain our social security if we pay sufficient attention to the fight against fraud and enforcement. That's my and-and-tooth instead of-or.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u284	May I ask you to do it all a little bit shorter and pointier? We have already circulated a revised schedule, but I will try to continue with the next important budget at 6:45 p.m. If you're trying to put it a little shorter, we're gonna speed it up a little bit. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u285	This was not what I or Mr Renkema asked. Here's what I'm asking. They're doing very good experiments in Wageningen and Tilburg on trust, which might work more in welfare. Let's say that scientific research will soon show that trusting works better than strict enforcement. Is the Secretary of State prepared to listen to the results of scientific research, so not to get ahead of them but to take them seriously, and to take over the possibility of trust working better nationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u286	Sorry, by the way, I'm always getting all fired up on this subject, so I'll do something...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u287	I understand, but we have a little time to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u288	You're right. Let me say this. It may also come out that a super-strong approach works. We don't have these experiments for nothing. Of course we are going to look at the results with each other, but with my practical experience I also dare to say that it might come out that it is both necessary. At least that would be my plea for now, but I am certainly not going to assume that I can already say something about scientific results of an experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u289	There is talk here of trust, trust, trust, but listen: when assistance is being used, people lose confidence in the social system. People work hard to ensure that there is enough money to provide welfare benefits. Then they see that one out of five Turks with a welfare allowance commits fraud and someone who has €60,000 in his safe and has received €74,000 in unlawful welfare money, which is not even recovered by the municipality or the judge. You don't create trust with that, do you? Why doesn't this Secretary of State just say that there are guidelines, that we're not gonna talk to the local authorities anymore and that we're not gonna have any more experiments? Why doesn't she say: the welfare is simply maintained; if you commit fraud, then you just don't get welfare benefits anymore and municipalities that don't, I cut the budget? Why doesn't this Secretary of State do that? Why do we have to wait again through all kinds of conversations and experiments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u290	Mr De Jong expressed his concern in a somewhat superlative form, but I do recognize them. I'd be the last person she wants to shuffle under the carpet. That is why I call for an en-and-discussion. I also believe that municipalities should be maintained, because they should. I also think it is important that we keep telling this story. If there is a taboo on a debate on fraud, I think that is a bad thing. That's why I'm taking that statement. At the same time, there is another side of the story. It's also a little bit: what you pay attention to is growing. I see very nice examples in the country of how things are going well. I would also like to pay attention to that. That is why I am in favour of the en-en approach. But let us be clear: fraud cannot and must be combated. I stand for this strong enforcement, I also believe that municipalities should do so and take my mission from the coalition agreement seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u291	If this Secretary of State takes it seriously, she'll pull that enforcement all the way back. Then she says, "I'm ultimately responsible and I'm going to do it, because this is my priority. And why is it a priority? Because it's too common. They're not superlatives. I have given examples that are daily practice and that irritate people. They see that someone doesn't even speak the language when he can hold his hand for years. Then the Secretary of State can say: I think it's important. But then if municipalities don't do anything about it and the Secretary of State says she needs to talk, nothing changes at all. There shouldn't be a discussion. Enforcement should be carried out. What sanctions is this Secretary of State going to impose on the municipalities as soon as they fail to comply with the enforcement around the assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u292	I find it very worrying when benefits are being cheated. That is indeed the axe at the root of our solidarity. I fully share that with Mr De Jong. That is why I believe that first of all the municipalities should monitor this. It should also be the subject of the municipal councils when the college is checked. Besides, I've taken on a job and gotten it. I'm going to do it very seriously. That starts with me by looking at how things are going in practice. Let us be clear: it is a very important task for municipalities, and I also assume that this discussion will take place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u293	Last year we had the same little debate here. Nothing's changed in a year. In fact, the examples of Turks and other people from outside who commit massive fraud here are on the clock. When it comes to enforcement: Dutch people born in the Netherlands, natives who have been in the Netherlands for generations, receive a letter that they have to prove that they speak Dutch and then see that a Turk who couldn't actually apply for his benefit because he doesn't speak a word of Dutch doesn't have to do that. That's inexplicable. So I expect this Secretary of State to act now. If she says "I'll have a conversation" then it's a toothless tiger and then it's not that this Secretary of State sees it as enough priority. Maybe she sees it as enough priority, but she is taken hostage in the cabinet; something is going on, but it is not right. We can't stand here next year with the same story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u294	I think this is a priority. I understand that people are worried about this. I've taken on a task, and I'm doing it. I may take a little more turns than Mr De Jong would like, but I think it is important that everyone who uses our social services does so in law and that people who pay for it see and know that this is right. That's why I take this assignment so seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u295	The Secretary of State referred me to Mr Van Dijk's questions. I only prepared my own questions this morning. I've looked at them, and I have a question about that. In her reply to Mr Van Dijk, the Secretary of State says that this €3,000 is not really necessary in our view, and that there is a surplus of macro money for the €1,300 from the accompanying budget. That's right, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u296	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u297	The point is that those municipalities that have fulfilled their tasks have nothing to do with it, while those that have not done so are allowed to keep the money. That's not right, is it? Can the Minister also support the municipalities that do run?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u298	It's a logic I can't get a pin in. I'm sure there's a technique behind it. Can I come back to this in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u299	Fine. I'll take a look at the cubes. You are in fact already a bit on the block of enforcement and the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u300	I've got a lot of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u301	Are there any points in that block that you can link to this? Then maybe we'll speed up that subject a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u302	I'm gonna try. Before I come to the next block, I would like to touch on a point that Mrs Van Brenk raised. I thought that was an appropriate point, also because I had spoken to her guests on Princess' Day, who brought them in contact with me specifically about this. She gave to receive signals that from the government people with disabilities are always placed elsewhere after a temporary contract and she asked if this was the line. I would like to say explicitly here that this is not the line. I think it is important that jobs are sustainable. On the basis of the discussions, I added this as the fourth pillar for the broad offensive. There are a number of instruments for this, but because of time I will leave it at that. Mr Raemakers asked about wage costs subsidies. With the new release scheme for wage costs subsidy that I presented in the letter on the broad offensive, I would like to give municipalities the opportunity to extend the partial release for people working part-time as long as is necessary in view of individual circumstances. I hope that will also reassure him. As far as the Wajong is concerned, too, the rules as I have proposed are already ensuring that more work, including part-time work, pays off. We are now working that out in legislation. In this context, Mr Smeulders has also asked me whether I would like to introduce the labour cost subsidy instrument into the Wajong. The discussion about introducing pay dispensation into the Participation Act is really not one-on-one to translate into the Wajong. For example, there is no partner and power test in the Wajong. The instrument wage dispensation has been used in the Wajong for years. In total, about 17,500 Wawjongs work with pay dispensation. I do think it is important for the Wajong to become simpler and clearer, and that work also pays off. That is why I announced that I would harmonise the rules on income support within the Wajong and I would like to point out that I do not think it is appropriate at this time to change the system of pay dispensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u303	I share the direction in which the Secretary of State thinks when it comes to the offensive, in fact, very strongly. Certainly: harmonization, standardisation and the emphasis on simple rules. That's what the Secretary of State started. She also said at some point: in order to achieve this there are no taboos and no vetos as far as I am concerned. The pay dispensation in the Wajong is quite complex. In my first contribution, I did not ask for the wage dispensation to be replaced by the wage subsidy. But I did ask if that could be investigated, as a reconnaissance, including any financial consequences. Do I understand from this answer that the Secretary of State says, "I'm not gonna do that?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u304	We have also just sent an investigation to the Chamber about what works: wage subsidy or wage dispensation. Then you can also see a qualitative picture of the pay dispensation in the Wajong. You can see that you cannot put that one-on-one on the discussion that has taken place over the past six months, especially by the underlying regime. So I would not like to focus on this issue now, because we have a lot of things to work out in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u305	However, it seems to me that it is precisely on the basis of the idea that you want to harmonise that you want to work towards one instrument. I read that report, too. There is also a preference for employers to work this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u306	I didn't make that choice now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u307	At this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u308	It happened really fast. So I understand that when it comes to the newly proposed release of labour costs subsidies, a municipality can, in principle infinitely, decide to extend that release by six or twelve months each time. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u309	That's the law that's gonna come. I would like to give the municipalities the opportunity to extend the partial release for people working part-time for as long as the municipality considers necessary for that individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u310	There's gonna be a law and we're gonna deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u311	I also conclude that the answer is yes. I do have a question about that. On the one hand, of course, you have a medical hours limit, which means that people work part-time. But we also have people working part-time who have no medical hours limit. Could the Secretary of State indicate the size of this group and what other possible reasons are there for part-time work? In these cases, is that the employee or, for example, is it in the employer's sphere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u312	I'd say it's primarily because of the employee's circumstances. I can think of all kinds of situations. But this is also really an issue for the legal process. Then we will also have to indicate the size of the group. This also has to do with the financial frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u313	I asked in my contribution if the Secretary of State is prepared to see if it is possible to offer the compensation via a surcharge. The Secretary of State is not positive about this in her written reply. I do have some clues that it's pretty viable. I'm just asking if it's possible to investigate it, so to involve it in the elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u314	I haven't made that choice right now. I have included it as a wish from the client councils and the trade unions, because I simply wanted to reflect the public debate in full transparency, but I have worked within the framework of the current legislation. They are also systems in the Tax Administration and we see on other files that this can often lead to delays. It's really major. And it's really a system change I found outside of the order of this letter. I haven't recorded her for the moment. In the General Reviews, the Christian Union, supported by the Chamber, has provided a financial impetus to help young people in vocational education. Mr Bruins asked how exactly I am going to spend that money. Those resources are intended, inter alia, to provide guidance for pro/vso students to the labour market through, inter alia, job coaches, internship counsellors and also the establishment of internal and external apprenticeship workshops. In order to implement this financial impetus, I invited the lectures of mayor and aldermen of the 35 central municipalities to give the impetus and content of their regional and pro/vso schools and also to sign a declaration of intent together with the representative of pro/vso education. All 35 center municipalities are also participating. In doing so, we use the same objective distribution model that is also used in the distribution of the reintegration budget of the Participation Act. The regions will then draw up an implementation plan with corresponding agreements on the practical use of resources, so that we can also carry out an evaluation in 2020. Mr Bruins has also asked if I am prepared to take a critical look at provisions in the Participation Act on young people under the age of 27, to look together with municipalities to see how they can guide young people to work or training. That is my commitment, including in the broad offensive, to accompany more people to work. I have a number of measures and proposals that, due to time, I will now also highlight in that broad offensive, on the way to the inclusive labour market, also working with stakeholders. Mr Bruins drew attention to obstacles to the income and labour support of young people under 27 years of age in the Participation Act. In general, I would also like to point out that there can often be more than is widely thought. Because it is precisely the Participation Act that also allows municipalities to actively support vulnerable young people in the search for work and/or training and also to provide tailor-made services. Whether a young person under the age of 27 is entitled to assistance or can still receive state-funded education is, for example, for the assessment of municipalities. There is now a lot of pretending that this is not possible at all, but that is an individual assessment of the municipality, which looks at the individual possibilities. We now have an inter-departmental policy study on young people with a distance from the labour market. I have already indicated a number of times that we work together with, for example, VWS and OCW. This is because young people often have to deal with multiple schemes. Hence an interdepartmental policy investigation. That's where we're really looking at what bottlenecks and what solutions are. I expect that investigation to go to the Chamber in the spring. They will have a place in this and we will also look at young people with disabilities and the support of municipalities in the evaluation of the Act on Participation which will be published next year. In addition, following the Van Dijk/Van Weyenberg motion, the ESC carries out a broad exploration of young people's opportunities for development, also looking at bottlenecks to get training or get into the labour market. That exploration will be available in the second quarter of 2019. As far as I am concerned, I am looking with an open mind at the results of these investigations and I am also willing to look together with municipalities at the extent to which people in the implementation practice run into thresholds and share good examples. Mr. Chairman. I have the feeling that we have already had the necessary exchanges on sheltered work, on social employment in the interrupting debates and also on experiments. You see me driftingly leaves. Then I would like to move on to poverty and debt, unless there are any questions, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u315	Let me take a look, because you still have a block of enforcement and the fight against fraud. You've been working on that a little bit, so it's not wise...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u316	Shall I see if I've had it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u317	Whether he can't get right behind this, that actually makes more sense. But maybe I shouldn't interfere with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u318	There was also labour market discrimination, but I do it separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u319	Then you do it separately, and this other enforcement, because many questions have been asked about it. Maybe you've finished the subject with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u320	Yeah, we'll do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u321	I'm gonna take a look at the interruptions. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u322	I heard the Secretary of State say very briefly "internal counselors." That's what I've been talking about in my contribution, about the buddies. It's a good thing they're really prominent in the Secretary of State's plans. I was wondering if it would be possible to get a report in the future: how is it going, how often is it happening in the Netherlands, how many percent of the employers and how many percent of the municipalities participate in it? Is it possible to set up a kind of monitor there to periodically reconnect some about it as a room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u323	At least what I have announced, including in the broad offensive, is that I am enthusiastic about this. At the same time, it is also something in which municipalities, of course, have freedom of policy. I do see a trend that it's gonna be more. So I have to see if we can include that in those investigations, because I do understand the need for a bit of factual information at some point. In the second term, can I tell you exactly what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u324	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u325	Mr. Bruins agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u326	We're talking today about the digital participation file. The Secretary of State has included that in the written set. She says: I want to work on this and I am talking to the VNG about it. She also mentions an explicit example, Edison, on which the VVD would like to point out that it has to be broader than just the Participation Act. So we call for an explicit understanding of the municipality, but also of the people themselves, in everything related to the Wmo, youth care and the Participation Act. Then you don't have to re-enter data ten times and you can also get a clear and easy overview in that way. Edison is even more limited, so I'd like to give you that width in the follow-up to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u327	We are also under the wings of the mother department, which is of course also involved in digitalisation, in this respect, just to put it this way. That does not alter the fact that we are taking steps ourselves where we can, but indeed we want to join this broader discussion. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u328	Another question. Is it true that the block of fraud enforcement has now been? Because I have a question about that, but I can ask it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u329	No, go ahead. I'm about to deal with labour market discrimination. Now I have covered the fight against fraud and enforcement under the Participation Act as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u330	We have asked another question about wealth abroad and welfare benefits, so perhaps the Secretary of State can explain this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u331	Oh, yeah. It is true that the necessary changes were made in the first period. I've also seen the call from the VVD. I also think it is important to see if I can adapt the Participation Act to that and how we deal with this. I've reported that in letters to the Chamber before. That investigation is now under way, and as soon as it's finished, I can forward it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u332	Of course, we agree that fraud should not pay off, but there is now a situation in which municipalities that actually go ahead run counter to crazy rules. They will then find fraud and also stop the benefit. They impose a fine and then recover it, but this recovery results in negative assets again and thus the right to a benefit. It is good that there will be research, but can the Secretary of State not go one step further in order to encourage the municipalities in the shorter term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u333	That's a fair point. We have also spoken to municipalities that are doing very much to prevent fraud abroad and then run into barriers. You have to apply for a certain degree of care, but you may be able to look abroad to see if people are rightly applying for a benefit. I just think that's very important. We have just had the debate on this. Municipalities run into them sometimes. I think I have indicated that I am prepared to take a big step in that direction. I have looked into whether I really need to amend the Participation Act in order to accommodate municipalities even further. We're getting over it pretty quickly now, but this is really a good point for me. That is what I have just highlighted in this debate. I believe that municipalities should be able to recover the benefits and also to collect fines. This consultation with municipalities and other implementing organisations is now under way and as soon as possible, I will inform the Chamber that I am going to amend the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u334	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u335	Mr. Chairman. I come to poverty and debt. In the Netherlands, it is estimated that one in ten households face problematic debt. In addition, in 2017, 599,000 households had low income. Mrs Van Brenk asked for a report on the scale and development of the problems of poverty and debt. It calls on the Cabinet to develop a clear framework for municipal assistance. Municipalities are, of course, primarily responsible for this access and also for the quality of the assistance. It is my role to facilitate them, but I do so in such a way that good initiatives are spread more widely and not everyone is going to do it in their own way. For example, we also subsidise the benchmark of poverty and debt that Divosa makes with and for municipalities. There, municipalities can measure and compare the results of their poverty and debt policies in order to improve their approach. One of the actions in the broad debt approach focuses on how information on, inter alia, the size of problematic debt at national level can be improved by combining different registers and sources with data. The CBS is carrying out this action. In the Lower House as well as in the Upper House there is a lot of attention to the question of whether a reduction target in the field of child poverty is desirable. At my request, the SCP, the CBS and the CPB carried out a reconnaissance and examined the possibility of achieving a clear poverty indicator. The cabinet will, on the basis of this exploration, also in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, see how we will do that with that reduction objective. How are we going to formulate it and how high will the objective possibly be? Mr. Chairman. We read positive news about employment and the economy every day, and it is simply not good if people are left out financially. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked me if I know the story of Mrs Claudia Brugman. I know that story; he also asked me questions about it. I think it's poignant. Such situations should not occur in the Netherlands. Poverty intervenes deeply in people's lives and it also has far-reaching consequences. That is why preventing and combating structural poverty and the causes of poverty and also debt is one of my main priorities. We do that in three ways. We want to take measures to reduce the burden at work. It has just been said about it by the Minister. We are promoting the employment of welfare workers, but we are also promoting the participation of people, especially children. In the fight against poverty, the cabinet pays particular attention to tackling child poverty, as all children must be able to develop freely, without obstacles and with opportunities, regardless of the financial capacity of their parents. And when it comes to reduction targets, every child growing up in poverty is one too many, as far as I am concerned. Since 1 January 2017, 85 million euros have been made structurally available to municipalities for this purpose. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Kuzu note that part of these 85 million do not end up in poverty among children and ask me to identify the means. I made a mid-term evaluation, which I presented to the Chamber on 21 November, and it shows that municipalities are going through a process of growth in tackling child poverty and the use of the corresponding resources. Municipalities are their move. They can oversee the entire field. They can also see what is needed in the short and longer term to combat the causes and recognise the effects of child poverty. I think they are well on their way, and I have also heard the plea earlier in the Chamber and the motion that has been tabled. That is why one of the measures I am taking in the evaluation is for the municipalities to be able to help more children, that up to 15% to 20% of these additional resources can be used more widely than to provide in-kind provision for children who grow up in poverty. In this respect, it remains an important starting point for me that the future commitment of that part of the funds is also strongly focused on tackling child poverty. I also hope to respond to the Voortman/Gijs van Dijk motion on a coherent approach, so that children are helped with an approach aimed at their entire living environment. As far as I am concerned, I am not in favour of marking the funds received by municipalities, because it limits the possibilities for tailor-made work and also increases the costs of implementation. It is in line with the decentralisations in the social domain for the city council to judge on the use of these resources, but also on the results obtained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u336	Have you completed a block at that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u337	If I'm gonna close all the debts, I'm gonna be a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u338	No, let's go see some interruptions. Mr Van Dijk was the first, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u339	If municipalities used the money to fight child poverty to fight child poverty, then we are all happy. But there is no denying that there are municipalities that do not spend that money on it. Today's research of Noord-Holland News: 2 million out of 15 million, in Noord-Holland, goes somewhere else. You don't want ear tags, but what do you do with those municipalities that refuse to take that money to the right place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u340	At least I told municipalities that they should take this very seriously, because of the importance of combating child poverty, but also because this debate is taking place in the Chamber. Of course this hangs like a sword of Damocles above. I think it is important that municipalities can really look over all these areas. For example, they know whether there is a Foundation for Learning Money in their municipality that does good work or that there is a school where a lot of children come together out of poverty. I want them to be able to make a difference in that respect. Under the line, they have to do it. I have also talked to municipalities about the fact that it is just not what we had agreed on, because these administrative arrangements are there. They're gonna have to live up to that, too. That's the big talk I had. At the same time, I think it would really just be a bridge too far if we made this a target benefit. This creates a great deal of bureaucracy and administrative burdens. That money won't end up with those kids. But I am passionately in favour of municipalities knowing where to get the money, precisely because they know the local situation and have to answer to the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u341	Beautiful if it goes well, but I have the figures here: 2 million out of 15 million for child poverty does not end up there. Are you just gonna let these municipalities go, or are you just gonna say that you shouldn't have? So what is your solution to get these municipalities to do what they're supposed to do? Because now the money stays on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u342	Part of the solution is to meet the wishes of the Chamber to be able to spend part of that budget on facilities that are not in kind. I'll share that. I see local funds when the Learn Money Foundation cooperates with municipalities. They say we should be able to do other things. Sometimes, as a municipality, you have to be able to work in a different way. In this way, I try to meet the wishes of the municipalities, the Chamber and the funds. It's municipalities appealing to it, with it's also at some point... Look, I thought the minister said it nicely in his term: it's our co-government, you have to take each other seriously. If I have a serious evaluation that part of that money is not spent on it, then I'm going to talk about it. The other way around, I do not have the illusion that if it becomes a target payment, every euro will be well spent. Because centralization is not the solution to everything either. I believe it's in the right place in congregations. Believing is beautiful, but so is a piece of control. That's why I want a thorough evaluation. And put that city council in position too! This is an important task that we can also do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u343	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u344	Very briefly, Mr President. In Aalsmeer, Amstelveen, Bloemendaal, Haarlemmerliede, Spaarnwoude and Heemstede some of the funds were added to the general funds. So that didn't end up in the right place. Is the Secretary of State at least willing to take a serious look at this investigation and talk to these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u345	So that's the conversation I'm having. And yet this; I want to soften the contradiction here a little bit. The money also came in an ongoing financial year, so at a time when municipalities did things themselves. In some of these municipalities, directors are very passionate about this subject. That money came in an ongoing financial year. Then sometimes it's just hard to do, but that doesn't mean nothing's going to happen. I would like to refute that contradiction here. As far as I'm concerned, there's gonna be a big talk and then it's gonna come through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u346	We have had a separate debate on this before, and it was widely said here in the Chamber that this money should go to the children. There is 100 million apart for those children in poverty, because there are far too many children living in poverty in the Netherlands, and that is what we are going to do. This money is specifically intended for that purpose. Then we said we gave it the benefit of the doubt. But I have the idea that administrative agreements are being made and that the first thing the VNG and the municipalities do is that they run away and think "well, that money is inside" and that the appointments go into the trash can. Because that's actually the result. Is it custom-made when it goes to lampposts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u347	I think it is a slight caricature of reality. I come to many places and I talk a lot with volunteers and also people who are active in the municipalities in poverty policy. There's really something going on in town. People know how to find each other, networks are being set up and partnerships are being created, precisely to reach as many children as possible. We have seen that again this school year, for example from the various foundations and municipalities. So I think it's a slight caricature. Where things aren't going well, municipalities should just pull a leg. But it's also a mid-term evaluation, which I did in order to pick up these kind of signals. I do have the confidence in the co-government that they take this very seriously and also use this evaluation to make adjustments where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u348	I don't get that impression at all. If 25% of the funds are available now that this current research is not being devoted to what it was intended for, then I think we can put it here as a Chamber: the municipalities do not supply part, but some of them do not, so we are going to mark the ear. That was also a discussion at the beginning of making this money available: we give the municipalities the chance, but if it doesn't work, we're going to ear tag. Will the Secretary of State take that step, perhaps not now, but will it be next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u349	No, I wouldn't like that development. I also think it would be shooting a mosquito with a cannon. It's an disproportionate tool if you look at what municipalities can do with it. It would also be of interest to me, because of the beautiful initiatives that I see from aldermen, volunteers, schools and foundations, local and often with business, and because of what they are doing here and how they can now simply use those resources. For these kids, because that's where we'll find each other. The money has to go to the kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u350	It's going a little round.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u351	Last point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u352	We've had this subject in all its forms, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u353	Still a little while. There are wonderful initiatives. Then it will be in the right place, but the Secretary of State cannot continue to claim that if it goes to lampposts or to the general resources of the municipalities it will be in the right place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u354	I'm afraid I'm not gonna move at this point. I think it's an illusion, too. If it were to be paid directly into a target benefit from here, it would not be 100%. It has to end up with those children and, as far as I am concerned, the best way to get there is through the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u355	I'm actually starting to notice that we're all right back in this discussion. I also had such a good hope at the time when we had the last debate on this subject that we would really take steps and that we had a benevolent Secretary of State on this point. I note that a mid-term evaluation has been carried out which, in fact, half of the municipalities have not responded. I see that a quarter of the municipalities do not spend the money on the purpose for which it is intended. We, both Mr Van Dijk and myself, are not talking about all those municipalities where things are going well. Compliments for those municipalities. It's really good that they're spending the money on it. The question to the Secretary of State is whether she shares the ambition that these funds are at least used for child poverty. Does she at least share that ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u356	Yes. And to keep the time short: I never created the illusion that I would make it a target benefit and I'm not going to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u357	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u358	The answer to the question is, in my view, that the Secretary of State agrees with the ambition that the funds should be spent on child poverty. Then the next question is why we reason so black and white. There are also intermediate forms to think of. On the one hand, we have the ear tags and the target benefit. The Secretary of State doesn't want that. On the other hand, we have complete policy freedom. The Secretary of State is in favour of that. We can also put forward a proposal in which we make a social benefit out of it. So not within that broad target benefit in the Gemeentefonds, but within the social domain. Is that what the Secretary of State's gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u359	Mr President, for the sake of short, I answer this question on the basis of the same argument with 'no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u360	No. A final comment from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u361	What instruments does the Secretary of State see, apart from the good conversation? Of the latter, in the last ten years, we've seen him bite for ten years that it just doesn't work. It just doesn't work! Those good intentions, those beautiful words...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u362	Clear, you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u363	... those ambitions, those conversations with the municipalities; ten years we've been spinning around in the same circle. When are we going to stop doing that and take steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u364	It's human work. Decentralizing is also letting go. You have to trust your fellow governments for that. There are municipal elections and people's representatives can address their directors. I am very much in favour of this, because at local level you sometimes see more, and more integral, than from the Lower House. That is why I am in favour of it and I do not intend to change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u365	Thank you. Mrs. Van Brenk has a question on another point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u366	No, Mr President, I have to go on for a moment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u367	You have a new question? We've already had ten variations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u368	No, one variation not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u369	Go ahead. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u370	I'm gonna try again. Because I, too, had asked for the money to be earmarked, but I understand that the Secretary of State is not in favour of it. So there are a number of municipalities where it has been shown that they do not need that money. 'Cause they didn't put it in. Isn't the next step that we're just gonna skip these municipalities next time? Then those other municipalities, which are doing well, can spend those extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u371	If you zoom in on the situation a little deeper, you can see that even the municipalities that say they did not spend the money on it have spent money on poverty reduction in many other ways. There are many ways to do that. I also think that any intervention will create so much bureaucracy and burdens that it will reduce the amount of money spent on children. I'm in favour of as clean a settlement as possible. That's the arrangement we have now. This will enable us to ensure that the children receive as much money as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u372	I'm very disappointed, because you can see that municipalities that just don't do it are now rewarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u373	Mr Bruins wants to interrupt on the same point? Oh, come on. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u374	No, I'm just trying to reason the other way. I notice that Members of Parliament are very much going to sit on the executive function of the cabinet here. I wonder if the Secretary of State will be able to tell us in any time how she will ensure that these funds will end up in poverty for children. 'Cause that's what I think it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u375	Mr Bruins asked for a letter about the talks that the Secretary of State was going to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u376	We also have a general discussion on this, I believe in January. This review and the measures will also be on the agenda. So that AO seems like a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u377	Fine, let's do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u378	And a feedback of the conversations will come, I suppose. Where have you arrived now, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u379	I'm just looking, because all the interruptions have changed things a bit. A large part of Mr Peters' speech dealt with the persistent problem of poverty. I know that's an issue for him. He also asked for my response to the CBS figures. There are several reports about poverty. The CBS reported a slight increase in the number of low-income households. The SCP reported a decline in poverty last week. Well, that's kind of confusing, of course. For me, at least, it remains important to combat poverty. These different figures are, of course, also caused by these different definitions, samples and snapshots. I believe that the discussion we are having on the definition and reduction targets is particularly important. In this context, Mr Peters asked if I share the view that working poor are not in the picture. I note that, in fact, municipalities have less vision of low-income workers when it comes to municipal support for the minima. Because a lot of low-income people who work don't think they're entitled to that municipal support. On the other hand, municipalities are better able to reach people they already know by, for example, receiving welfare benefits. I think it would be a good idea if I pointed this out to the congregations in the collectible news we have with the municipalities. Indeed, more is possible in this area. Municipalities are active here, but not everyone does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u380	My point was that not only municipalities do not have these working poor in sight, but also the UWV. After all, they work. The municipality doesn't have them in view, the UWV doesn't have them, and the unions basically don't have them. Branch organisations aren't, either. In other words, in that sense they have no voice in the polder. It happens to them all kinds of things. If our social state were to function properly, with supplements and so on, they would work, but they wouldn't be poor. My question is, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u381	In the written reply, the Minister gave a number of answers concerning their representation and appreciation in the polder, for example fromzzp organisations and trade unions. So in that sense completely unknown? Shredded over several gremia, though. I had a feeling about Mr Peters' plea. I see what I could do myself by at least calling on municipalities to take real account of the fact that people who work should also be able to make use of regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u382	In the end, that is not enough for me. A large group of people are out of the boat. 320,000 people are having a hard time, they're having a hard time. It's shredded, as you say. For example, they are partly represented by small unions for zzp'ers and perhaps by trade union FNV or CNV, but mostly not. They're out of the picture. We also don't know very well about their income figures, for example. What does that look like, for example, in relation to the social minimum? Actually, we have no idea, and that bothers me. I would like to do something with that, because it is a large group of people and no one is direct to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u383	I have heard Mr Peters' suggestion in the first period of time to gain more knowledge of this. Perhaps it is a good thing that we should come back to that in the second term. Then the debts. I will leave aside all the exciting perspectives and texts and, for the sake of time, concentrate my answers on the questions that have been asked. A number of Members of Parliament have asked to be informed about the progress of actions in the broad debt approach. I indicated that we will send a progress letter in spring 2019. Because things were slowing down on a few issues, I thought I would proactively inform the Chamber. "Spring 2019" I thought was too long. In the meantime, I would like to say that I am trying to make a number of workarounds on the dossiers that are quite appropriate and very important. These include simplification of the herd-free footage and the broadening of the collection register. In the first months of 2019 I can inform you about this. Where something doesn't go through, we try to see what can. I'd like to inform the Chamber about that. You will receive the full progress report as agreed in spring 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u384	The Secretary of State says, "Where something can't go through, we'll see what we can do." About this collection register, the Secretary of State writes in her letter that the Court is still being informed about the problems raised and the resulting approach to the problems in the collection market. With regard to the collection register, which we all consider very important: can the Secretary of State confirm that this can happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u385	It's not a question of how or how. Mr Raemakers indicated in his term: I have tabled motions, how is that going? I remember when the motion was tabled I indicated that this is going to be very tight and I do not know if we are going to reach that deadline, but I certainly want to strive for it. That's what we've all tried. That is why I indicated that it would be later after all. As far as I'm concerned, all hands on deck to get this done as quickly as possible, but the question is not whether or not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u386	Now, a year later, we would have liked to have a bit of an idea of that. I'd like to introduce myself to a collection register. You include an article in the law: each collection agency must be affiliated to the register. Paragraph 2: if you are not connected, then et cetera. Paragraph 3: et cetera. The Secretary of State then writes in her letter: "Because of the complexity of the subject, it will not be possible to inform you before that date." I don't think it's that hard to get that collection register, but according to the Secretary of State, it is. Then what's that incredibly complex thing? Maybe she can sketch that a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u387	I will not tire you of the daily futility of a Secretary of State's life, but I can assure you: whatever stone you lift, there is a whole world behind implementing issues, ICT systems and interdepartmental policy alignments, which sometimes make things slower than you want. You should know, Mr President, that three departments, a number of industry organisations and many complex ICT systems are involved in this dossier. We all do everything we can to reduce that diversity and complexity, but sometimes it just takes time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u388	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u389	Really rounding up. This is a very important appointment from the coalition agreement. We made that deal last year. Over a year has passed now and we have been given twelve rules which state that it is all very complex and that there are all problems. I just don't know what this is about as a Member of Parliament. I would advise you to send at least one or two sides to the Chamber in future, which states why it is so difficult, because I have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u390	I'll tell you more about that next time. In any case, I hope to be able to clarify the general discussion on poverty and debt that we have in the first quarter of 2019. Then I come to the issue of labour market discrimination. Mrs Van Brenk has asked whether this includes age discrimination and sanctions. I can give a brief answer to that: yes. The SZW Inspection has a special team for labour market discrimination. This team examines whether employers pursue policies for their employees on all so-called 12 grounds of discrimination, including age. Mr Kuzu asked how much money is available for this and whether I consider the measures sufficient. The additional resources for enforcement under the coalition agreement provide a structural investment of EUR 1 million. In addition, the SZW inspection budget is structurally increased by half a million from the departmental enforcement budget. In 2019 and 2020 there will also be 1 million extra for communication. I also appreciate Mr Van Weyenberg's commitment to this. I would like to take a look ahead to the amendment on this subject. I shall come back to that in response to the amendments. I would like to say that the measures contained in the new action plan are a further step in tackling a turbulent problem. It calls for the commitment of all interested parties to the labour market and also for a shared sense of urgency. That is why we are committed to enforcement, but we are certainly also investing in knowledge and awareness and in promoting a cultural change in inclusiveness in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u391	So much for labour discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u392	Yeah, this was the short version.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u393	Okay. Fine. There is a question from Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u394	Thanks for the comment. I also asked two questions. Do you think it is appropriate to combat it? And what sanction is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u395	The answer to the first question is yes, because that is why we have proposed these measures. But it's okay to keep the finger on the wrist. I really think that with the resources of the government agreement for additional enforcement, a major blow can be made. Look at the Labour Market Discrimination Team: it doubles. So that really is a huge increase. From my point of view, a fine of up to €3,500 can be given. If that's different, I'll say it in second term, but that's a little out of my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u396	Can the Secretary of State also tell us how progress is reported to the Chamber? How often and when does that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u397	We have the inspection's annual plans anyway. We have also agreed that we will come up with a mid-term review. Sorry for the English word "sorry" in which we look after two years to see if the policy priorities we have now set offer real solace. There is also an opportunity to adjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u398	You have another question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u399	When the action plan was presented, our DENK heart beat faster, so we would like to thank the Secretary of State for her commitment on that point. I also asked a question yesterday about the fact that discrimination cases are often well-founded at the College of Human Rights and that then criminal proceedings indicate that it is difficult to prove. I have the same fear with the inspection SZW, which wants to impose fines on discriminatory companies. Does the Secretary of State really think he can make progress in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u400	Of course, that is what the stakes are for. I'm actually gonna put that stick behind the door. Individual situations can be reported to the police or to the College. The inspection will see if the employer has a good policy on this. Of course, that starts with paper. That's where it starts. That's what the inspection's gonna check on. Then, of course, she will also look into the practice. I don't think a stick behind the door is the only thing that matters. I believe that awareness is also needed, as is the development of instruments. That's why they're working on it. But it starts with a serious stick behind the door. We'll put it down like this. The inspection, as in other fields of psychosocial workload, already has experience of how you actually control this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u401	It is indeed a question of coherence between all measures taken to combat labour discrimination. The lock is indeed a stick behind the door. Now we have had this in the past with the discriminatory companies that would not be awarded contracts by the government. We have noted that this has not worked and that this has led to zero non-gunnings from the government towards those companies. I cannot imagine that this was not the case, because we ourselves have raised a number of specific issues in the past. Does the Secretary of State really believe that this stick is going to be used behind the door, and that in a few years' time we will not find that zero companies will be fined for deliberately discriminated against?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u402	The answer to that is yes. I also announced a legislative change. I would never just announce a change of law for symbolic politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u403	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u404	We're gonna live to see it. At least we compliment the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u405	We've come to the last thing: working healthy and safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u406	Yes! The last block! The right to inaccessibility; that sounds delicious to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u407	This cri de coeur was very special!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u408	There's really a lot to say about it, because it's really a serious problem: work stress, burn-out. One in seven workers has to do with burn-out complaints and one in six with unwanted forms of handling. But because of the time and the stress here and of the people who have another debate after us, I will confine myself to the agreements. Mr Renkema asked which developments in society lead to stress, outburst from work and burn-out. I agree with him that there is a need for insight into this. That is why I have already promised the Chamber to have research conducted in 2019 into underlying mechanisms for burn-out complaints among specific groups. I am also prepared to broaden this research, including knowledge and expertise from different knowledge organisations and possibly other ministries. So we can have a broader analysis. In turn, this can lead to incentives for employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u409	Let me get this straight. I've listened to the answer well. These include specific groups and recommendations for employers and employees. My specific question to the Secretary of State was also whether she is prepared to include social developments, not so much the micro-level of individuals or the meta-level of an organisation. Can I interpret the research that the Secretary of State announces here so widely that social developments are also understood by that research, which the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is also asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u410	Now I'm gonna take my mind off it. I've had a discussion about this. It was quite difficult to cut it with scissors: are you going to do it at the level of an organization or are you just taking the social level? We said maybe we should take this together. So, yeah. If it's any different, I'll let you know later. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, there are two initiatives from the Chamber, from the GroenLinks Group and from the PvdA Group, which advocate legislation in the area of trust and in the area of the right of inaccessibility. Let me say this about it. I see the problem that is behind it, but I would like to have the discussion at some point, and we can do that at another time as to whether legislation is always the right way forward. On these aspects, I believe much more in the conversation between the employer and the employee and that you are indeed providing the right tools for this by doing research and giving hand-outs. This is without prejudice to the fact that I consider the problems raised by both Members to be very relevant. I'm just choosing another route. I would also like to focus on information, for example on the role and added value of the trusted person. For example, I also set up a guide for trusted persons and check that trusted persons are accessible, have the right qualifications and can operate independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u411	When the Secretary of State started, I thought "we're gonna take care of it today." I am thinking for a moment of all those Social Affairs officials who have to look at us for two days now, and who have to listen to us too, and who have had to work for a long time last night. How much right would they have now not to be disturbed tomorrow and the weekend by the Secretary of State and the Minister? We can settle that today because of the right to inaccessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u412	Look, they're laughing over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u413	Yeah, I can feel the support from that side. We can arrange that today by saying that we think it is important that every company, institution, organization or ministry makes good agreements about when you are reachable or not. That's one of the indicators that always makes you "on." I'm hoping for a little more space than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u414	Now you get a little on this path. I believe that legislation is there to remove obstacles. Something that should actually be intrinsic in culture is almost impossible to enforce with a law. We disagree on that. We can build whole trees on that, but for the sake of short: I share the objective, I recognise that everyone has the right to come back, only, I do not see that in the way of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u415	I note that we are not going to deal with this today, but we will soon come up with an initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u416	Exciting. Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of my speech. I'm gonna tell you, because I think that's important. We saw a lot of topics coming by yesterday and today. As far as I am concerned, the common thread is how we ensure that people can participate again. That's what I'm trying to do with simple rules. For me, the touchstone is perhaps even more than how many laws we will have passed later on, that we have succeeded if I hear from people with disabilities that they have found a job, that they have improved financially, when I hear from employers that they have been able to hire employees in a simple way. I taste a lot of ambition for that, even here in the Chamber. I would very much like to support this with you and with many parties in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u417	Thank you. There are two more amendments to your file, I see. An amendment by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Kent to point No. 9 on 140 million for social employment and one from Van Weyenberg in part No. 35 on extra money for the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u418	Oh, yeah. Mr. Chairman. My response to Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Kent's amendment is that the two-step measurement in June shows that the issue is decreasing by 2020 and that the coalition agreement also provides funds for the accres that can provide solace for the years 2018 to 2020. The last measurement will be available at the end of 2019. If circumstances change, I will enter into consultation with the UNG on this, but I therefore advise against the amendment on item No. 9. The amendment in part No. 35 boosts enforcement and awareness of discrimination during recruitment and selection. I'll leave this to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u419	Thank you. Then I look at the Members for the second term, because I assume that this is what is needed. Oh, there is one more question I understand from Mr Raemakers. Then it has to be answered. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u420	One more question remained, which was not included in the written reply. This concerns the question of the individual study allowance for students with disabilities. That arrangement is often not well known. I also get signals from students that it doesn't work quite well and that it varies by municipality. Can the Secretary of State indicate what is going on with the evaluation and when we could get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u421	Yeah, I'll let you know in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u422	Fine. We'll suspend for two minutes and then we'll go to the second term. Is that a good idea? That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u423	The next item is the second term of office. Members have the opportunity to make motions. As the first speaker from the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u424	Mr President, thank you very much. Looking back at the debate, I think it is a shame that this Minister has not chosen to seize the opportunity today to remove the threat of a pension reduction, to try to make indexing possible for the foreseeable future, and to accommodate all those people who are struggling to reach retirement age in a healthy way, by, for example, freezing the AOW age or putting it at 65 years even better. I really think that's a shame. What I also regret is that this Secretary of State has not taken the opportunity here today to put the sustainability of our social security at the heart of this issue, and to take a real step in the area of benefit fraud. I would therefore like to table my very first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to recover the amount of fraud up to the last cent plus fine and statutory interest and to ensure that the claim is not subject to a limitation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u425	But how wonderful it would be if, at the last moment of this debate, we could get something done about those people who have been waiting for years for that real purchasing power improvement, who are eager to finally feel in their pockets that our economy is doing better, as we so often hear. And that is why I would like to table the next motion. I would like to hear that this cabinet embraces it with great positivity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to bring forward real purchasing power improvements in 2019 and therefore to abolish the expat regime and to use the money released to reduce the burden on citizens;]] [[calls on the government to reverse the VAT increase on messages, to reduce rents by 15% and to freeze the care premium and to use the budget surplus for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members De Jong, Wilders and Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u426	So my appeal is: Cabinet, make sure people really feel it in their wallet, that they're really gonna feel that purchasing power improvement, that they're gonna feel, as you always say, that the economy is getting better. I very much hope that the cabinet will promise it so soon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u427	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Graaf, including the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u428	Thank you, Chairman, today with glasses. From the government often sounds the remark "we live in a difficult time" or "there is so much happening around us, internationally." But the government forgets that, with us from Parliament, here and across the street, in the First Chamber, as one of the few in this country can really influence the timing. Then it is very striking that the cabinet, precisely on one of the factors on which it should exercise influence, is only following international developments, watching patiently and doing nothing about the loss of our culture. Because our culture is under pressure from Islamization, but the cabinet is watching and doing nothing about it; it only facilitates. Our society is under pressure from massive immigration of people from Islamic countries in particular, but the cabinet is watching and letting it happen. More and more we see that our people are tired of it and those who can afford it leave our country for good. And I get it. Because we have a mayor in our capital who is fine with burkas and does not want to enforce the burka law. Such a mayor plays with fire and has to leave, but the government refuses to fire her. Jews no longer dare to use a yarmulke and flee the Netherlands and other parts of Europe. The government of our country, in all its layers, is forgiven for self-loathing. If foreigners, immigrants, newcomers, whatever they are called, do not perform or are involved in the government infusion, that is always up to the Dutch. But Dutch people work hard and are discriminated against. That's a crazy and ferocious thought. The following islamisation story also presents itself. I have a motion on that because it must be prevented at all costs. The motion is about halal banking. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the IMF's investigation in 2016 showed that halal banking is sensitive to money laundering and terrorist financing;]] [[Considering, inter alia, that the Islamic terrorist organisation Hamas uses Islamic banking to finance terror;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should do everything in its power to combat money laundering and terrorist financing rather than facilitate it;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow halal banking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u429	Mr. Chairman. For the PVV at the end of these two long days. Unfortunately, the doom image of losing the Netherlands is real. The government is partly responsible for this. Fortunately, in March 2019, people will be able to deal with this giving-away and throwing-away cabinet in a few months' time. Finally. I was critical yesterday of that part of the Christian population of the Netherlands that is not defending itself against the loss of our Jewish-Christian culture and the rise of Islam. The call I made was meant to be positive, but was also a wake-up call for that group. I've had a lot of positive reactions to it, I can tell you. That is why I would like to conclude with the following. The Christmas party's coming up; another month. But celebrating Christmas only makes sense if the Christian warriors do indeed continue to move forward and take action to defend their culture. Now is not the time to follow without question, for our Christian culture has never been meant to end and end in Islam. I'd like to leave it at that for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u430	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u431	Mr. Chairman. You would almost forget how much work it is to prepare this budget and go through the whole process. I am referring not to myself as a Member of Parliament, but to the Minister and the Secretary of State, and above all to their support, to the officials. So a big word of thanks from my group for that support. This applies not only to the support for this budget debate, but in general to the support for all the major dossiers currently being dealt with in the Ministry and which, hopefully, will very often lead to very nice debates in this Chamber in the coming weeks. So thank you for the support and strength for the coming time! I see that this is recognized in box K and laughs are being made. For now! Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply and for some of the commitments they have made. I mention the role of young people in the polder, innovators in the polder or, in fact, just other parties in society that can also be relevant in the polder. We have also explicitly mentionedzzp'ers. I am pleased that the Minister will consider how these can be of even greater added value in the consultation economy. I welcome the commitments on taxation and VAT. My colleague Van Weyenberg will be tabling a motion on our behalf shortly. We hope that the VAT issue in particular can play a role in the pilots announced by the Minister. I also welcome the attention given to the initiative of the Craft Academy that we tabled today with the CDA through an amendment. I am very pleased with the Minister's warm words about this. I also hope that the Minister would want to give that movement, perhaps with business schools, even more life. I would remind the Minister that he would come back to that in the second term. This would take place in line with my question about business schools and whether we can use them more often to get better-trained staff for SMEs in particular. Can they play a part in this? I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment on the Self-Decision Action Plan and the role that the Minister himself can play in this. Mr. Chairman. The most important element in my contribution was unnecessary uncertainty. A lot is happening, there is a changing labour market and these changes are also affecting people. They do something with the certainties that people experience and also with the role we can play to help people in it. What I see too often is that we have large systems and sometimes rigid rules that get in the way of that. I mentioned a number of examples of these systems, but also a number of examples of people who run into them and complain about them. I called Donny 38 years old, who ended up in the WW against his will. He was an instructor at a gym, lost his job and had to knock at the UWV. He was eager to get to work as a plasterer, but he couldn't do it because it required a training budget. There was money, which is very nice, which we released last year during the budget debate, but it was not enough. I am glad that the Minister has promised today that he will see how we can even better organise this retraining and further training, especially for people like Donny. I also got a message from Donny in which he says: I hope they do something with it. I'd be happy to convey that message. In the area of unnecessary uncertainty, I also have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent studies show that older jobseekers in particular are still finding it difficult to get to work;]] [[noting that, at a time when there is a record number of vacancies, it is of the utmost importance to get everyone back into the labour market;]] [[Whereas existing arrangements such as training vouchers and no-risk policies are still not sufficiently effective;]] [[whereas the threshold to a fixed job is sometimes high, but a short-term flex contract also contributes to a sustainable start-up in the labour market;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with social partners the inclusion in collective agreements of start-up jobs, combining a long-term contract with additional training, in order to create new opportunities for older jobseekers;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of progress by this spring at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u432	I have a second motion, along with this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a rapidly changing labour market continues to rely on you;]] [[Whereas training and development are essential to reduce mismatches between supply and demand;]] [[noting that there is scope for training under the Unemployment Act, but that it is sometimes too limited to return to work as soon as possible;]] [[noting that there is often still a lack of knowledge of the various ways of getting back to work through training;]] [[Whereas the agreed adjustment of the training budget scheme may give individual cases greater scope to support training;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider in the short term whether within the current WW there is scope to spread the benefit over longer periods of time if a necessary training course lasts longer than the right to WW;]] [[invites the government to explore whether, under conditions, tailor-made work can be made possible in the WW, e.g. to bring forward part of your WW benefit in order to achieve training in combination with a job guarantee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u433	I am very curious about the financial support of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u434	I don't have the motion before me anymore, but the motion asks to see how and what possibilities there are. I have also heard the Minister say earlier that he is going to present the pros and cons of this. The motion asks that we explore it in that context. So we're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u435	So it's a research motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u436	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u437	I understand it's a research motion. But does Mr Wiersma realize that if this is carried out, the premiums paid by employers will have to be increased, because there will be a greater seizure of the WW pots?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u438	We have an idea. We're going to explore the consequences, the pros and cons, of that. I hope you're just as curious about that investigation with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u439	All the curiosity. But I also think it is good to be aware of the consequences of the proposal that the VVD is making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u440	The VVD always tries to be aware of all the consequences, including these. Mr. Chairman. Then, in my contribution, I will also come to a CPB investigation. It has been mentioned a few times today about the delayed wage development in the Netherlands. I think that is a subject that concerns all of us. Then it's not just about the labour income ratio, but also about the pay share, so how much money goes to people in that wallet. The CPB notes that labour productivity makes an important contribution to this, but that we should actually do more research on this and that it could play a greater role in policy. My group has the next motion for this, which has been co-signed by Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CPB's investigation into the slowdown in wage developments in the Netherlands shows that a faster increase in labour productivity is relevant for the increase in real wages;]] [[Whereas according to the CPB, among other things, public policies can contribute to an increase in labour productivity;]] [[Whereas this can also make a positive contribution to the share of wages;]] [[noting that the CPB notes that the knowledge on the effectiveness of specific labour productivity policies is modest;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how policies can contribute to increasing labour productivity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u441	Finally, a final motion for a resolution. He sees fraud. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities are obliged to impose fines in the event of proven fraud and to recover the amounts of benefits received;]] [[noting that it is unclear whether, in the event of proven fraud abroad, all municipalities are indeed recovering and collecting fines;]] [[noting that both the recovery and the fine imposed by the "capital = assets -/- debt" rule are included in the debt, thus re-establishing the right to benefit in the event of negative assets;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the active implementation of the above-mentioned obligation by municipalities and to make every effort to effectively collect the amount of benefits received and the fine imposed;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the recovery and the fine imposed do not fall under the heading "debt' under the rule of "property = property -/- debt', so that there is no new entitlement to a benefit until recovery and the fine imposed have been paid and there is still too much capital, and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u442	Those were the motions we have. All I have to do is thank the Chamber for the contribution. It is going to be an exciting year and we look forward to seeing all the elements involved. We'll see each other then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u443	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u444	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have much time, so I'll start my motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that work is currently under way on the drafting of legislation to replace the DBA Act (Deregulation Assessment of Industrial Relations);]] [[noting that 80% of employees are not insured against incapacity for work;]] [[Whereas this entails risks for both individuals and society;]] [[noting that in the meantime the General Employers' Association Netherlands (AWVN) also advocates disability insurance for all employees;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward proposals for disability insurance for allzzp workers when drawing up the plans;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenk and Mr Van Rooijen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u445	Fortunately, I do not need to talk so quickly and give Mr Smeulders a chance to catch my breath. I have one question. If I heard correctly, he said "to come with insurance for allzzp'ers." Now we had a debate here on pensions and then Mr Klaver said: no, no, all my ideas about obligation are not about real entrepreneurs, but about vulnerable people at the bottom who are actually employees. I'm gonna ask you sometime. Is this the Green Left position and not Mr Klaver's position on pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u446	I am so glad to be able to reply to this quietly, because it does not go away from my speaking time. To be clear about it: as far as we are concerned, there is a difference between pensions and disability. We believe that disability should be dealt with for everyone in this country. If you can prove that you've managed your pension in a different way, that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u447	Well, you finished it right away. Proceed with your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u448	Yes, I do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that relatively little is now being done in the framework of the Law on Fake Constructions (WAS), because employees are afraid to lose their jobs and look up to the complex procedures;]] [[Whereas workers should be able to defend their own rights if they suspect that they are affected;]] [[Whereas this is certainly important because of the sham structures in the current labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it can be made possible for trade unions on behalf of employees to be able to use the WAS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the low income benefit (LIV) may be an appropriate tool to stimulate employment at the bottom of the labour market;]] [[Whereas LIV does not always seem to be used for what it is intended to be;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to impose additional conditions on LIV, thereby restoring the instrument's original objective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas one out of five workers provides family care;]] [[Whereas this group will only increase in the coming years due to the ageing population and increasing pressure on the environment of the needy;]] [[Whereas long-term care is a heavy burden on the worker;]] [[noting that only 5% of the family workers who provide long-term and/or regular care use short-term care leave and only 1% of long-term care leave;]] [[believes that care leave can be a good means of relief for the caregiver;]] [[calls on the Government to identify how the combination of work and care is currently being completed, why care leave is being used so little and to put forward a proposal in mid-2019 to promote the use of care leave,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-44]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-45]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u449	Thank you. Thanks also to the Secretary of State, the Minister and the official support. I have three motions. The first one is about the batter-free foot. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that last year the Simplification Act was adopted by both chambers;]] [[Whereas rapid implementation is necessary because too often the current rules around the attachment-free foot are not followed and therefore the security of life of debtors is no longer guaranteed, so that, for example, they may even lose their homes;]] [[calls on the government to do whatever is necessary to implement this law as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas young people from practical education and secondary special education need good guidance in order to move from school to a suitable place of work for them;]] [[noting that from the Wajong there were good networks between UWV, schools and employers, but that with the introduction of the Participation Act this group seems increasingly to fall apart,]] [[Noting that funds have been made available to this group on an occasional basis through the Segers motion, but not structuralally,]] [[calls on the government to pay particular structural attention to this group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Renkema, Mr Peters, Mr Raemakers, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Stoffer and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-47]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema, Mr Raemakers and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u450	Because I'm not quite sure what the scope of the burn-out investigation is, I'm also filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one of the seven working Dutch people is getting a burn-out;]] [[Considering that burn-out is an important social problem;]] [[noting that in 2014 the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau established that insufficient research has been carried out into the impact of societal developments on the number of burn-outs;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the effects of social developments on burn-outs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their first-term response. Many subjects have been discussed in a fairly long debate today. Following on from Mr Wiersma, I would like to thank the Minister specifically for his positive response to the amendment to the craft academy, which is an initiative in which very little money can be given to achieve very good results. There has been no real mention of the VCA examination here, but the written reply did mention it. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment he intends to make, although it is not a public instrument to see if parties can come together. Thanks also for the commitment he made on behalf of the State Secretary to return to the Chamber on positive examples where the government has used instruments to support regional training initiatives. I would also like to mention the Minister's commitment to Mr Van Kent's amendment on the problems which are called 'burning houses'. It's about people; the problem ofzzp'ers who got into trouble with an old product. We wait for the letter to come in early 2019. I assume that Mr Van Kent himself will also look very critically at what comes out of that. The Minister also owes me an answer. We have had a little debate on initiatives by employers and employees in the framework of the DWSRA. The Minister has promised that he will return to it. As this is about initiatives that are coming to an end, the time limit for their return is important. I'd like it to be as soon as possible. The Minister indicated that he would return to this in second term. I've got two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the importance of the representation of young people in the ESC in order to ensure solidarity between generations;]] [[Whereas, through the Gijs van Dijk/Van Weyenberg motion, the Chamber has requested the SER Youth Platform to carry out a one-off exploration of the future;]] [[considers that the position of young people within the consultative structures of the ESC should be extended;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the ESC to strengthen the position of young people within the ESC and also to invite the SER Youth Platform to carry out a future review every two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Wiersma, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Bruins and Mr Smeulders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u452	Then I come to the efforts of municipalities to offer newcomers and oldcomers the opportunity to get out of the assistance and therefore not to rely on the fact that they have a very small perspective. I have mentioned the Somalis and Eritreans, but also the newcomers who are coming in now. Municipalities deal with them differently. The two directors also replied to this in their reply. This is a debate that started last week during WHO Integration and that we moved here, because the Secretary of State would be there. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many refugees remain stuck in the assistance;]] [[Whereas there is already a large over-representation of non-Western immigrants in the assistance;]] [[considers that it is not social and not sensible to rely on it;]] [[noting that municipalities have several possibilities that activate new and oldcomers as a stepping stone to regular work;]] [[calls on the government to make firm agreements with municipalities on how new and oldcomers will be more activated and accompanied to work by greater use of existing instruments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions and for the good feeling that it speaks. The sense of urgency, to put it in good Dutch, is present. Maybe things aren't going as fast as we all hope, but I think we're working on it well. I am also glad that the so-called red button will be carefully looked at. People who would like to work, but simply do not dare out of fear that their net-stable income would change catastrophically. I am glad that we are going to have a good look at this and that we are also being asked about it. I'm a little less pleased with the delay in the debt file, but that's no different. I understand that it is largely technical and that it is certainly not a lack of commitment or desire. It has become so difficult for me to think of President Eisenhower the other day, who said in his last speech: I am the last person to understand this expanding military-industrial complex, and after me it becomes really incomprehensible. I'm afraid we've all created something similar here. I'm worried about that. It has become so complicated that I wonder if we are still able to understand everything, but well. Having said that, I have drawn attention to two target groups, and I have also written two motions for resolutions. The first is about the working poor, people who, in my view, are poorly represented and of whom we do not know exactly how they are. Hence the next motion, which I would like to table together with Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the working poor group is increasing in number;]] [[noting that these working poor, including many self-employed, are not represented by trade unions and trade associations;]] [[noting that we have a rather complicated system of supplements and social security;]] [[Considers that the working poor deserve attention and representation and that solutions should be sought for real problems such as pension, insurance and income;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[talk to the polder about this growing group of working poor;]] [[the SER to request a reconnaissance on the identification of working arms in the polder;]] [[and the income position of definable groups as singles, singles with and without children, single parents and older people, in relation to the social minimum, to be specifically portrayed;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u454	The second group I have asked for attention for is the group of people who are expelled from their homes, who are no longer able to live in their homes because of payment problems. Actually, I've noticed, and many with me, I think that's counterproductive, harmful, expensive and unwise. Of course, we are not going to call for a ban, but for an action plan that should lead to zero expulsions. I've written a motion for that, which I'm going to read to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas agreements have been made with municipalities to prevent removals by making housing corporations part of municipal plans to address debt resolution and poverty;]] [[Whereas the removal of families with children should be avoided by setting up social care in their own environment;]] [[also considering that debt write-offs are still taking place;]] [[Considers that any removal is too much;]] [[calls on the government, in inter-departmental consultation with the VNG and housing corporations, to draw up an action plan "No debt removals',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u455	Mr. Chairman. There is a group of young people who may have the following problem: they are in social care, have to live elsewhere, which can, but then suffer from the cost sharing standard. In the answers of the Secretary of State, we have seen that it is possible for municipalities to deal with them differently. In practice, we see that very often this does not happen. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of young people homeless has increased in recent years and that this has a significant impact on both young people and society;]] [[Whereas strict application of the cost sharing standard may increase the chances of homelessness;]] [[Whereas, in applying the cost sharing standard, it is possible to tailor the assistance and its obligations to the circumstances such as threat of homelessness;]] [[noting that this possibility is still underutilized by municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to highlight the possibility of tailor-made measures in the application of the cost-sharing standard to the municipalities in order to avoid the threat of homelessness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u456	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not wish to make any motions, but two amendments, which were already known in the first term. The Minister began his reply promisingly. It would be about the plans for 2019. I was on the edge of my chair. I kept a list, but the list's pretty empty. The Minister did not come further than the integration, the appointment of committees and that kind of thing, while we are talking about the budget for 2019. 2017 was the year of a long coalition negotiation. 2018 was the year of in vain negotiation with the polder. 2019 seems to be another year, I fear, in which words are mainly spoken rather than deeds are shown, among other things in the Brostlap forward committee. Based on what we have heard today, 2020 does not promise to get much better. It is not until 2021, four years after the Minister's arrival, that we can expect the first concrete results. As I said in my first term: a lot of workers and pensioners,zzp'ers and start-ups in the labour market are paying for this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the group of people who have fallen into financial difficulties without their fault and who have in vain knocked on the door of all kinds of agencies. Then it's about Piet and Paul, whom I mentioned a few times in the first term. In the case of amendment, I propose an emergency fund to rectify this injustice. There has also been a small debate with the Minister. Mr Heerma referred to it earlier. I am glad that the Minister at least sees the problem and takes it seriously. He would return to my supplementary questions in the second term. I'm curious about that. One thing is certain: something must be done about this. I hope that after today a first step can be taken to rectify what Piet and Paul and many thousands of others have done in recent years. Then the increase in the number of long-term ill 60-plussers. The number of long-term ill workers over 60 has tripled in five years. The minister mentioned an investigation. I went to dig. In 2017, we did receive a letter from the Minister. That was December 15th, around the budget time. The UWV would do research. We have looked very hard, but we have found nothing, except the knowledge report, in which there is no clear outcome on the relationship between longer working hours and the increase in the number of people who are ill or disabled. I ask the Minister, on the basis of the data collected by the UWV so far, to do a study to see where that relationship can be found and what measures can be taken to ensure that people do not fail, should not go into disability towards retirement. I think there are a lot of figures known at the UWV and in other places. I think it would be a good idea to study this further so that we can learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u457	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, including the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u458	Mr. Chairman. We have a number of phenomena that are happening at the same time right now. We have a growing economy. We've got rising poverty. We have wages that are left behind. And we have top salaries shooting through the roof. I've been talking to the Minister about it for a while, and he said, "Yes, it can be, but we're not talking about that." I regret that very much, because there is a great deal of discontent about this skepticism, this division. So if I had been the cabinet, and that day will come again, I'd know. But this government can also embrace this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas two thirds of the Dutch believe that a maximum of top salaries should be provided;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has good links with business;]] [[noting that the pay gap has only increased in recent years;]] [[calls on the government to respond to the discontent of rising top salaries by reducing the growing wage gap in consultation with trade unions and industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u459	You can't be against it, Mr. Chairman. I can't imagine. Mr. Chairman. Then there's child poverty. We had a big debate on that. 2 million has remained in North Holland. I've asked the Secretary of State to look into that. She hasn't answered that yet. Mr Kuzu is coming up with a motion, which I have co-signed, to get that money in the right place. To be continued. Mr. Chairman. Then there's social work. It is a shame that so many people are at home now, as many as half of the people with disabilities. We've been able to see Hans de Boer from the employers over the last few weeks and my party leader, Lilian Marijnissen. The Labour Party used to be different. All those who are now saying: it has gone too fast with this social work provision. Now offer room for people who are now falling between shore and ship. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the SCP, the employment rate for people with disabilities has decreased from 50% to 30%;]] [[Whereas many people with reduced working hours fall between shore and ship because they are not eligible for sheltered work, but are also not employed in a regular business;]] [[calls on the Government to extend access to sheltered work so as to prevent people with disabilities falling between shore and ship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u460	Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the issue of wage costs subsidies. The Secretary of State is working on the so-called release arrangement. I would still like her to look at the possibility of helping these people through a surcharge. I'm just asking for an investigation. And you can, if it's up to me, so you can embrace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u461	The same applies to the other motions!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u462	Yes, but they're all such sympathetic motions. Let's end the day nicely, I'd like to say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u463	That's kind of social. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people with a medical time limit who work according to their ability and are covered by the employment agreement are unable to work more hours because of this restriction;]] [[noting that they are unable to generate sufficient income from wages and therefore need an additional income;]] [[considers it illogical for them to be treated as beneficiaries;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to provide an income supplement through a supplement to people who are able to work with a medical hour limitation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u464	Mr. Chairman. The collection agencies are also working hard by the government with the collection register. There are cowboys on the market, and we shouldn't deny that. They want to get as much money away from the debtors as possible and not always in the most sympathetic way. Hence my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Authority for Consumer & Market,]] [[calls on the Government to send a proposal to this effect to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u465	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both rulers for their reply throughout this day, and indeed all the people in the Ministry of Justice, I have done it myself once, who have spent many hours helping to ensure that all our questions were answered as well as possible. As always, all the good work of them, while all the things I am disappointed about, are of course, as always, the fault of the rulers. That is their tragic fate, Mr President. But I'm actually very satisfied today, so that's nice for me. For starters, I wanted to highlight a few things. I am very pleased with the written reply on volunteering and the extension of the rules in the WW. That was not really appointed, but it was also designed together with voluntary organisations, as I read in the written reply. A very important commitment. I really hope that will help, including for all those local buses, for example, in North Holland, about which people were very concerned. Mr. Chairman. I also welcome the Minister's commitment to allow much more tailor-made work on the money for retraining, from the money earmarked for retraining job seekers over 45 under the previous budget. He also gave a clear answer to all my questions about the wok agreement and its future. I look forward to the outcome. Three motions will be tabled on my behalf. Mr Smeulders has already done so with regard to care leave. There has already been a motion on the position of young people in the ESC and Mr Gijs van Dijk will be tabling another motion asking the ESC to take a kind of picture of the situation with regard to the platform economy. That motion will follow shortly. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the positive assessment of the amendment on labour market discrimination. In addition to the extra money from the coalition agreement, where we have already contributed a total of 0.5 million to the Labour Inspectorate, where we are really getting more resources, she has sent an ambitious letter to provide more information and more enforcement tools. Mr Jasper van Dijk was absolutely right, and also Mr Kuzu: information is beautiful and it is also a very important element against unconscious discrimination, but you must also maintain it. That is where the amendment goes on for the first four years. The problems are really big enough for that. I look forward to the results, especially in relation to, for example, the approach to temporary employment agencies and how we deal with them when they go along with discriminatory requests. Mr. Chairman. Then I have three more motions. The first one is: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas lifelong development is important for the earning capacity of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the primary responsibility for lifelong development lies with employers and employees;]] [[noting that the application of the tax exemption from the wage tax for training in private individual learning accounts is not always unambiguous and leads to uncertainty among employers and employees;]] [[Whereas the portability of the individual learning account will further promote the use of tax exemption from the wage charge;]] [[Whereas the possibilities of reducing employability costs from the transition fee are extended;]] [[calls on the Government to examine:]] [[whether there are improvements in the application of the existing tax exemption for training in private individual learning accounts;]] [[the connection between the tax exemption and the reduction of the transition fee;]] [[whether and how it is possible to deduct costs from the transition fee by means of payments requested by the employee to the individual learning account,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Weyenberg, Pieter Heerma, Wiersma, Bruins, Gijs van Dijk, Smeulders, Van Kent, Van Brenk, Van Rooijen, Kuzu and Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u466	Mr. Chairman. A very technical motion, but one to put an end, I think, to a lot of long-term uncertainty. My second motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more and more people will be diagnosed with cancer throughout their career and will recover from it;]] [[noting that the diagnosis of cancer, especially among young women and workers in the temporary employment sector, leads to a significant loss of income five years after that date;]] [[noting that these groups do not yet have a strong link with an employer;]] [[Whereas it is very important for this group and for society that they have the same opportunities to develop as their peers who have not been diagnosed;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage with the temporary agency sector to also promote the reintegration of (ex-) cancer patients and to explore in greater detail, in cooperation with the UWV, how medical care and work-related care can reinforce each other, with specific attention to people without an employer;]] [[calls on the Government to include the results of the pilot with the early deployment of the no-risk policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u467	The last motion is because governing is really forward-looking, and we need to learn from the past. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that unemployment is currently historically low;]] [[Whereas an economic change is conceivable in the foreseeable future;]] [[Whereas, in the previous crisis, measures on the labour market did not have the desired effect and, to some extent, did not enter into force until the recovery was well under way;]] [[calls on the Government to draw lessons from previous measures and to develop effective policy options in the field of services to the unemployed in order to prepare for a subsequent downturn in the economy, opportunities for supporting retraining and measures to maintain the number of training places while also reflecting the financial picture of the options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u468	I look forward to all the debates that we will have over the coming period on all the government's laws, from the law on thezzp to the Labour Market Act in balance. And I really hope, we will also debate legislation on pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u469	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a second, because you're gonna have a new chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u470	I give the floor to Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u471	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I would also like to thank the directors and the official support very much. And let me summarize what the debate has been about. I have called for attention to be paid to dealing with debt, to the broad offensive and to vulnerable young people. I think we can conclude that there are a lot of nice plans for dealing with debt, but also that there are a lot of concerns in the Chamber about implementation. That is why D66 is also under the motion on the delay in implementing the simplification of the attachment-free foot, a motion tabled by GroenLinks. But even if I look at other dossiers, for example on the collection register, and on measures relating to consumer credit, I can see that there is some delay when I am not always clear how technical this delay is. So I hope that we can really see what the next steps are in the general consultation in January. This is also an appeal to the Secretary of State. Then there's the broad offensive. We have, of course, talked about 'working must pay' and about this new release arrangement. And we have also concluded with each other that it is still a little unclear why people are working part-time. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more than 60% of people working with pay dispensation or wage subsidy do so part-time;]] [[noting that for some of these workers it is not medically possible to work more hours;]] [[noting that it is now proposed to introduce a release in a similar way for those who work part-time but do not have a medical time limit, but as an occasional release which can be extended by six or twelve months;]] [[calls on the government to ask out some large, medium-sized and small municipalities to give an idea of how many hours the target group works and, if that is known, the reasons for working part-time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u472	The final issue: the vulnerable young people. I'm glad I've seen that subject come across at a lot of parties. My name is also under the motion by GroenLinks and under a motion by the CDA about young people in a difficult position. And I myself would like to table the next motion on behalf of D66 and the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas young people are the future and the start-up of the labour market and education is a key factor for young people's long-term opportunities;]] [[noting that young people are still not sufficiently helped towards employment or training in all municipalities, but that municipalities themselves are very keen to do so;]] [[Whereas this is likely to bring a group of young people between shore and ship;]] [[whereas there are several good examples in specific municipalities that are successful in helping young people to get on the road;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities, to put on the agenda the need for guidance of young people to work or training and to collect best practices, and to further promote mutual exchange of best practices between municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u474	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Then we'll go to the next speaker. That is Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the directors for their reply. If you have to sum up what several people in this room are doing, I'd say the beating has to be done. The beech has to go in, figuratively; that seems decent to me. We were here last year. Then we said: this cabinet has a lot of ambitions when it comes to the labour market, about certainties that people are missing and that need to be strengthened. We've been a year. I'm not going to say it's negative yet, but I think it's going slow. We know how complicated it is, labour market policy and legislation. But then 2019 really must be the year of action. I call on the cabinet and the coalition to do the same. If we can work on this in a good way, we will certainly not fail to do so. We are, of course, talking about good pensions, a good labour market with the necessary guarantees and also for self-employed protection and the approach to bogus self-employment. Mr. Chairman. I therefore have four motions to strengthen this, firstly about the self-employed, in particular the older construction worker where I have had it a few times during the debate, who can no longer guarantee himself through a private insurer because the insurer says: you are simply too old. Well, of course you can't, so that's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas self-employed workers want to be sure of protection against illness and disability;]] [[Whereas older self-employed persons who have paid contributions for years in specific occupations such as construction cannot receive insurance after a certain age;]] [[calls on the government to investigate, for example, through UWV to allow self-employed persons to insure themselves if this is not possible through private insurers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u476	(NL) Mr President, the social employment services are also very important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[there is broad agreement that the social infrastructure needs to be maintained in order to help people with disabilities to work sustainably;]] [[too much social infrastructure has been lost as a result of the introduction of the Participation Act;]] [[The Thermometer Social Employment Services Act shows that deficits in SW companies are reaching their peak in 2019 and 2020 and that this is threatening a further blow to social infrastructure;]] [[calls on the government to stop the cuts in SW as of 2019 in order to further shape the realisation of social development companies and to cover them by increasing the capital tax for assets above EUR 1 million,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u477	As you can see, we properly cover our motions. I'm running out of time right now, Mr. Chairman, so I need to stick to the next motion. One motion is now dropping, unfortunately. I'll file it another time. That's too bad. But the next motion is very important. We talked about the future of the labour market and platform companies. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the platform economy provides more convenience, more jobs and more innovation, but also has a shadowy side;]] [[Considering that the development of the platform economy is taking place at a high pace and that ING Economic Bureau indicates that the platform economy can dramatically change the labour market with potentially a million additionalzzp's;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the Economic and Social Council to explore the practice of the platform economy, including the position of platform workers, the position and nature of platform companies and the maintenance of false self-employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u478	It has been passed on to my colleague Kirsten van den Hul, who has another budget this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u479	Thank you. Then I shall go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u480	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the pleasant debate. I would also like to thank the Ministry's officials for their hard work. I noticed that we literally got the written answers in the middle of the night. So thank the officials and the whole team behind it. Also thanks to the messengers and the staff of the restaurant here. This is the last day of budgetary treatment. Surely that's a special moment to remember. I would like to thank the Minister for the positive assessment of my amendment to launch a broad campaign for safe and healthy working in the agriculture and horticulture sector. I thank the Secretary of State for her commitment to getting internal guidance for people with disabilities well on the radar of municipalities. In the second term, I would like to hear whether we can obtain periodic information on the extent to which municipalities and employers use buddy training. I have endorsed several motions, including the motion just tabled by Mr Raemakers to support vulnerable young people under the age of 27. I have two more motions of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that employers, mainly in the construction, transport and agriculture sectors, often use labour from other (Eastern) European countries, and that despite the new European regulations, there may still be undesirable cost benefits;]] [[Whereas a firm approach is needed from employers responsible for phony constructions and exploitation;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of SZW is working on the legislative proposal to implement the new Detachment Directive;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly identify, within the framework of the implementation of the new Detaching Directive, which work structures are and are no longer permitted under European and Dutch legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a broad offensive to help people with disabilities to get to work;]] [[Calls on the Government to bring together municipalities, education and care institutions and the Ministries of SZW, OCW, VWS and BZK and to work together to ensure continuity in guidance on age limits and life domains and to inform the Chamber further on this before the summer of 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-67]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Raemakers, Mr Peters, Mr Renkema, Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Kuzu, Mr Stoffer and Mr Gijs van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u481	For the sake of time, I skipped a lot when reading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u482	I would ask you, however, to read out the recitals, because the spoken word applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u483	I will not do so now, otherwise my colleague will not have enough time to deal with his budget. I will amend the motion in terms of text.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u484	The recitals will then be deleted, but you may table an amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u485	That's what I'm gonna do through the Registry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u486	That's how we agreed. Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I'm going to the next speaker. That's Mrs. Van Brenk from 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u487	It's good to see our own president, by the way. Mr. Chairman. We spent two days debating each other intensively. 50PLUS has chosen to invest a lot of time in this budget, because it affects a lot of people. We remain of the opinion, even after the Minister and the Secretary of State's input, that the older worker is in the corner where the blows are taking place. The opportunity for older people to work is worrying and sometimes downright bad, especially in view of employers' prejudices. We're seeing attacks on income security. Think of the AOW age, which is moving forward. The influx of older people into the WIA is high, even now that requirements are being tightened. The income support for the elderly, the IOW, continues to shift. The transition fee for older people will be reduced. Mr. Chairman. Security of income is vital. We have therefore co-signed the necessary motions and we are therefore submitting the following motions as 50PLUS. We really believe that the policy needs to be changed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an explosive increase in the number ofzzp'ers has taken place in the Netherlands in recent years, also vis-à-vis abroad;]] [[Whereas the ING's economic office has stated that the number ofzzp'ers could increase further to 1 million in the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the causes and to make recommendations on concrete policy options that can slow down or reverse the increase inzzp's numbers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities implement municipal debt relief in different ways and with varying degrees of success;]] [[calls on the government to help develop a clear framework on how good quality debt relief looks minimal, so that municipalities can compare their own implementation and improve the quality of assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a clear framework to allow a better national picture of the quality of municipal debt relief,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-69]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u488	Mr. Chairman. This is point 9 of the report on poverty bottlenecks and debts of the Permanent Committee of the Chambers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is frustrating, ineffective and pointless to allow older people to apply for assistance if they no longer have a real chance on the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to link the application requirement for persons in the assistance to a periodic assessment of the usefulness of applying;]] [[calls on the Government to replace the obligation to apply for assistance by personal development, meaning and health-related activities in cases eligible for assistance following an individual assessment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the income provision of older unemployed (IOW) is a temporary scheme, with the reason that a lower labour market position of older unemployed would be "temporary";]] [[Whereas, according to the Central Planning Bureau, high long-term unemployment is not a cyclical problem but a structural problem, which is confirmed by available figures;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the IOW at the age of 60,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Commission is carrying out research on the regulation of work and is to give its opinion on the establishment of the labour market of the future;]] [[Whereas there are currently considerable differences in the level of protection between different employment contracts;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include in this Committee the analysis of the Council of State on labour market polarisation, social divisions, and the related suggestion of a single uniform regime for all workers, for which the legislator defines a hard minimum level of protection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that it is irresponsible to continue to cut back on the already considerably reduced safety net in order to protect workers from the risk of incapacity for work;]] [[Considers that precisely vulnerable people will be affected by these cuts;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from further tightening criteria for a WIA disability benefit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reality of pension reductions has gotten closer by blowing the negotiations on the new pension system;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly instruct the Parameters Commission to examine whether the European Ultimate Forward Rate (UFR) can also apply to Dutch pension funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reality of pension reductions has been brought closer by the crackdown on the negotiations on a new pension system;]] [[Whereas it is not consistent when pension contributions and pension liabilities are calculated according to different standards;]] [[calls on the Government to use the same "expected return" as in the pension calculation for the calculation of pension funds' liabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-71]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-72]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-73]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-74]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-75]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u489	Mr. Chairman. Next Tuesday, a motion will be put to the vote. We would like to bring them to the attention of colleagues. If it's all right with you, I'll give it to the messenger, too. And I would like to thank all those who have worked very hard on this budget, the rulers but above all the officials. It's not our policy. I would just add that, because Mr Van Weyenberg said 'our rulers'. Well, it's not. It's not our policy either. Hence these many motions. However, we would like to thank them very much for their work and thank them for answering all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u490	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. And you're bringing the motion to part number on Tuesday. 415 (32043) on the future of the pension system. Thank you. I am going to the next speaker, and that is Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u491	Mr President, given the short time available to me, I agree with the words of thanks that many have already spoken. And I learned a lesson today: I tried to participate in two debates at the same time and I never do that again. But I also have two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for employers to be actively and clearly informed about the rules in force in order to provide employment opportunities;]] [[Considering that, since 1 January 2018, the rules on wage costs benefit have added requirements for which employers have not been or have not been informed and which, for example, lead to exclusion of the wage cost benefit for young people from practical education;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that employers who have taken up employment from the target register from 1 January 2018 do not miss out on the wage cost advantage;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u492	And then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the death of loved ones regularly results in long-term failure of employers;]] [[Whereas it is better for both employees and employers to have a scheme tailored to situations of mourning, so that, for example, unintentional influx into the Disease Act can be avoided;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a legal right to unpaid mourning leave,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u493	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u494	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then we go to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u495	Thank you, Mr President. In the context of time, I'm going to start the motions immediately. I asked the Minister yesterday to express his thanks for all those migrant workers. I see that many aldermen in the country are doing their best to ensure that companies are brought in, but there is too little consideration given to the housing of these migrant workers. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that labour migrants contributed EUR 11 billion to the Dutch economy in 2016;]] [[noting that there is a serious shortage of good housing for migrant workers;]] [[noting that last year the Flexwonen Expertise Centre estimated that there was a shortage of 100,000 places of residence that met the minimum requirements;]] [[believes that migrant workers deserve decent housing;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the alignment of the ambitions of companies in which these migrant workers work in regions where migrant workers are employed with the necessary housing;]] [[calls on the government to consult local authorities and employers to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u496	The second motion concerns labour market discrimination. That is an important subject for DENK. We see that the Secretary of State is taking good steps, and to support her in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that cases of discrimination which are justified by the College of Human Rights rarely lead to a conviction by the criminal court;]] [[believes that racism and discrimination are persistent problems in our society;]] [[noting that the SZW inspection is going to fine discriminatory companies;]] [[Whereas cases of discrimination are "legally difficult to prove';]] [[Whereas the same problem that labour market discrimination is likely to be "bad to prove" is also likely to play at the SZW Inspection;]] [[considers that this measure should not become a measure which is in practice unusable;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how this measure, in conjunction with all other measures, will be effectively used in the preparation of the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u497	The final motion concerns the ear tag of the means. We talked about the target benefit. There are too many administrative burdens. We want to do that in the community fund's social sub-fund. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in practice the funds made available by the Cabinet for children in poverty do not appear to reach children in full;]] [[noting that the evaluation shows that half of the municipalities have not actually accounted for and 27% have not been spent on the intended purpose;]] [[Whereas the means of combating poverty under the Government Agreement are a means of providing income support;]] [[considers that municipalities should make full use of the resources made available to combat child poverty;]] [[calls on the Government to allocate the additional funds from the Government's anti-poverty agreement to the social sub-fund of the Community Fund for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XV-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u498	That brings me to the end of my contribution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u499	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. The rulers have requested a 20-minute suspension. I'm just having second thoughts about what to do. I think this is how we're gonna do it and then we're gonna finish the rulers' term for dinner, then we're gonna have dinner break, and then we're gonna move on to the last budget discussion this year. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u500	Can I make an order proposal? Can we have dinner break right away? There are a number of colleagues who also do the external trade and development cooperation budget. It also saves time, because then we have to go through less deep into the night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u501	The urgent request is that the second term be completed before dinner break. That just has to do with the support and the Registry. I therefore propose that we suspend until 6:45 p.m., then do the second term quickly, then take the dinner break and then do the final budget discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u502	The next item is the debate on the budget for Social Affairs and Employment. We have arrived at the second term of office. I would like to agree that the directors give a brief and concise appreciation of the motions that have been tabled. The amendments have already been dealt with. With the Members of Parliament, I would like to agree that only the author may, if necessary, put a single question for clarification, so that we can conclude the detailed debate we have had with each other somewhere in the next half hour. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u503	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to all the members of the Chamber for the questions that have been asked, even in the second term, and for today's good debate. First of all, I would like to join with all the compliments for the officials of SZW. It's some sort of oiled machine, a military operation. Last night at 04:00 we were emailed the lyrics and the written sets. Thank you very much, also for the people who are watching. There are still a number of questions. Then I'll go to the motions. Mr Wiersma had another question about the business schools. In the first period, I have already promised to return to this in writing in consultation with the Minister for Education and Science. Mr Heerma had another question about the DWRSA scheme. We looked into it. Last Monday, I sent a mid-term evaluation of the DWRSA to the Chamber. At the Craft Academy it was about the risk that the infrastructure would fall. That is why it is very good that the amendment is being tabled. For the other activities, this was a start-up grant based on the idea that the cooperation between the parties would be built up and can then be continued by partners themselves. That must therefore be financed by partners themselves, because we will no longer have any money when it is finished. Mr Heerma has asked for a further deadline. In the second half of 2019 I will come up with a letter on the final evaluation. I know Mr Heerma well in the meantime and I see that he has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u504	A brief question from Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u505	I have the impression that in the second term the Minister is less committed than he has already done in the first period. So I'm not satisfied with that. This story is well known. That was also stated in the written reply. My question was whether he wanted to see if initiatives that are likely to disappear in the meantime and whether he would like to talk about this in order to see if there are opportunities to continue. I said it wasn't about a bag of money. I find an evaluation at the end of next year where it is noted that, unfortunately, a few things have been completed that they are going to build up again, then too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u506	I understand. I shared with Mr Heerma in the first term that I find it complicated that we have no money to extend it. The question is: what are promising initiatives that should be brought to the attention of the wider public? Because I have already been more indulgent in the first period than I am now in the second period. That is what Mr Heerma is right about. I am going to take the mid-term evaluation and see what kind of initiatives lie ahead. I see angry looks coming my way now, but I'll see what we have in early 2019. Mr Heerma can look very threatening! Mr Van Kent asked another question about the relationship between longer working and illness based on data from the UWV. My picture was that an investigation had already been sent; that is what I said in the first term. I was wrong, but the investigation is coming. So in December, the follow-up inquiry following the debate was sent to the Chamber earlier this year. The question is whether we have any signals that can explain why this influx is so high. So there's no need for a new investigation. We first have this investigation, which was promised before. That will be sent to you next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u507	That explains why we couldn't find it. Would the Minister also be prepared to indicate what could possibly be done to prevent people from becoming ill or unfit for work when they come to the Chamber? Can he give us an incentive to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u508	Let's see. What can be done to prevent people from becoming ill or unfit for work? Of course, we are trying to do this more broadly, including in terms of preventive action and other activities. This research is mainly a search for how in a year suddenly there was a much higher influx. This research is being carried out in response to the debate we had in April of this year. I think it's good to discuss it afterwards. I have less good news for Mr Van Kent on the extension of the research for the OBR. In addition to Mr Van Kent's and Mr Heerma's point about, annoyingly said, the 'burning houses', Mr Van Kent had also asked for other arrangements. That question was mainly about people who enter the Participation Act and then have a power test. The complicated thing is that I actually said in the first period of time that it is about different schemes that are used in succession. The OBR was created for people who were already disabled before the age of AOW rose. In addition, I'm going to investigate the insurance companies for the "burning houses." This is about eating one's own house. There's a power test when people call on the Participation Act. On 19 November, following questions from the Committee on Social Security, I sent a response to a citizen's letter. That was indeed a question from Mr Van Kent. I have explained how it works and what the various arrangements are. The confluence of circumstances was very complicated with this one. It was about a young partner. In the 1990s it was already decided to phase out the scheme for young partners. But I do not see any reason to extend the investigation. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 37 by Mr De Jong, Mr Wilders and Mr Van Dijck are concerned with purchasing power. Then we are talking about a whole package of other burden measures. I advise against this motion. As a cabinet, of course, we do a lot for purchasing power. 95% of the Netherlands is expected to improve next year's estimate, I say to Mr De Jong. The motion in part No. 38 by Mr De Graaf is about halal banking. I also advise against this motion. Of course, the relevant legislation when it comes to terrorist financing applies to all forms of banking, including halal banking. The motion in part No. I leave Mr Wiersma's 39 comments on re-starting jobs to the House's judgement. The motion in part No. 40 by Mr Wiersma is about the search for more customization within the WW. I support that investigation. I'll leave the motion to the Court's judgment. The motion in part No. 41 by Mr Wiersma and Mr Bruins on labour productivity, I also leave it to the House to decide. The motions I'm skipping now, the Secretary of State is about to do. The motion in part No. 43 by Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Van Rooijen, on incapacity for work. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. We have had an extensive debate on this today. It is, by the way, part of the Borstlap Committee, but it is not part of these plans. The motion in part No. 44 by Mr Smeulders and Mr Heerma are concerned with the WAS, the Law on Fake Constructions. I would like to leave this motion to the House's opinion, because the WAS is monitored annually. The evaluation will be sent to the Chamber before the summer of 2019. In this evaluation I will pay attention to this aspect. So I'll take it with me in the course of the evaluation. Against that backdrop, I'd like to give Chamber's judgment to the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Smeulders' 45 concerns the low income advantage. This is what I'd like to give Court judgment to, provided... By "mits," I mean if I may interpret the motion in such a way that it can be taken into account in the review in 2020. Why do I say that? It's just been implemented. All the ICT systems are running just now. Then I'm talking about the Reciprocity Act. If you change it now, it will be very complicated, also for the implementation organisations. I also drew attention to this in my first term. So I understand the thought, but if I can explain the motion this way, then I want to give her judgment Chamber. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. But Mr Smeulders remains seated, so I can interpret the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u509	Mr Smeulders nods in agreement. This means that the motion can be interpreted in this way and has been given a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u510	Then the motion to part No. Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg on leave for care. I've already promised this in the first term, so I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Motion-Heerma c.s. in piece No. 50 on the youth platform, judge Chamber. Then there is the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 55 on top salaries. I have already said in the first term that the government is not about wage relations in business. We have a legal structure on the basis of which the discussion can be conducted within the works council itself. Earlier this year, a law was passed that this issue should be discussed with the works council. I don't want to go any further, and that's why I don't recommend this motion. The motion in part No. 59 on education and taxation has been signed by about the entire Chamber, so I would like to lay down the "judgement chamber" flag. The Van Weyenberg/Van Brenn motion on part No. 60 is about cancer and work. Like Mr Van Weyenberg, I think it is very important that people who recover from illness can also return to the labour market, which is why they are judged by the Chamber. The Van Weyenberg/Wiersma motion in part No. 61 is about to be ready for the crisis. What have we learned from the past few years and how do we deal with the economic tide? Judgment Room. Is there going to be a term question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u511	There is indeed a deadline. I didn't put it in motion because I wanted to leave it open a little bit. But I imagine we'll get this before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u512	Yes. I'm in a cool mood. The motion in part No. 64 by Mr Gijs van Dijk asks the government to examine the possibility of self-employed persons being able to insure themselves if this is not possible through private insurers because of their age. I have noticed in this debate that there are many questions about this, even after my letter last Monday. I understand those questions. In advance I can say that a solution of the UWV is far away. I temper the expectations, but I am willing to take stock of the possibilities, bearing in mind this motion, and that is why I am giving her judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 66 van Gijs van Dijk, Heerma and Van Weyenberg on the platform economy and the SER: judge Kamer. Mrs Hammer is happy about that, too. Then there is the Bruins/Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 67 on cost benefits for employers in the deployment of EU employees in relation to Dutch employees. I have a layered reaction. There's not gonna be a new investigation, because there's a lot already known. Next year will be the legislative proposal to implement the new Posting of Workers Directive. This is about the same subject and this aspect is certainly raised. On that occasion, I will share with the House of Representatives the latest insights into the cost benefits. I will also provide an overview of the constructions that will or will no longer be able to be based on EU and Dutch regulations. If I can see this as an interpretation, I'll give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u513	I see Mr Bruins nodding in agreement, so you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u514	The motion in part No. Mrs Brenk and Mr Van Rooijen asked the government to investigate the causes and make recommendations on concrete policy options that could slow down or reverse the increase inzzp's numbers. We have the ibozzp, we now also have the committee on regulation of work, on which Mrs Van Brenk has also tabled a motion, and that is why I do not think this is necessary. I advise against this motion. The Van Brenn/Van Rooijen motion in part No. 72 calls on the government to maintain the IOW at the age of 60. In the coalition agreement, we did extend the IOW, but it was pricked at five years before the AOW date. This is also an answer to a written question and I therefore advise against it. The motion in part No. 73 by Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Van Rooijen ask about the suggestions made by the Council of State for the work committee. I would like to bring it to the attention of the committee, and that is why this motion is given a ruling Chamber. Motion-Van Brenn/Van Rooijen to piece No. 74 is about the WIA. I sent a note last Monday that I will return to it after a discussion with the social partners. I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion now. The motion in part No. 75 is for the EIOPA UFR. Last Tuesday in the debate on pensions, I say to Mr Van Rooijen, I appointed the same task for the Commission Parameters, as it is called neatly, as it was five years ago. There is no reference to EIOPA/UFR, but to international context, but not to EIOPA/UFR. That's why I don't recommend this motion. Then there is the Van Brenn/Van Rooijen motion on part No. 76...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u515	We are aware that it is not the task, but it might be a small effort, or perhaps a nice challenge for the Commission Parameters if they could also consider the European variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u516	This discourse goes back a long way. I remember that Mr van Rooijen had fierce debates in the Eerste Kamer with Mr Dijsselbloem, the Minister for Finance, on EIOPA in the previous period. EIOPA/UFR relates to Solvency II, to insurers. That really is a different framework than the UFR we use in the Netherlands. So I'm sticking to my point of view: dissuade. The motion in part No. 76 calls on the government to base the calculation of pension fund liabilities on the same expected return as the premium calculation. I think this is a very creative motion. It's actually an interest rate motion, but it's the other way around. It's creatively made up, but I've figured it out, and I'm deceiving the motion. Then there's the stoffer motion to part No. 77 on the target population register and wage costs benefit. I'm giving you a layered response, Mr. Stoffer. Because of other problems, such as technical implementation, I cannot, with retroactive effect, undertake that it can be reversed. However, I can promise to inform the Chamber of the possibilities for this issue. A number of changes have already been made to the implementation arrangements on accessibility. For example, there have been recovery actions and UWV has applied coulance. There's also an arrangement signed for it. I can't make this literal motion, and that's why I have to discourage her. I would like to inform you about the actions already taken to increase accessibility. I am happy to tell Mr Stoffer to do so soon. The subject of the Stoffer motion in part No. 78 on unpaid mourning leave, at least about the intention, we discussed the treatment of the Cradle... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm gonna meet you, I'm gonna tell Mr. Stoffer before you react. As you know, there is a debate in Europe on the work-life balance directive. Following European decision-making, I would like to see, in line with the recommendation of the ESC and following the birth leave law, whether the integration of leave arrangements is possible and desirable. I would like to assure you that we would also like to look at mourning leave in this light. So I would not want to do it on my own now, but in the context of this European work-life balance, I will include the mourning leave, if Mr Stoffer agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u517	I think that's excellent. I'm guessing I'm gonna hold the motion for a moment until the Minister comes forward with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u518	Mr Stoffer is sharper than I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u519	At the request of Mr Stoffer, I propose his motion (35000-XV, No. 78). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u520	At the Kuzu motion in part No. 79 I have a procedural question because it is really about the portfolio of the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Ollongren. It is also in consultation with local authorities on this issue. I would therefore like to ask Mr Kuzu if he wishes to continue the motion and involve him in the debates with BZK on this point. It's a layered responsibility. The municipalities themselves are responsible. Also temporary employment agencies in some cases. This is really the job of the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u521	In my view, that is a key issue. On the one hand, it is about housing and on the other hand it is about social affairs and migrant workers. But I take the Minister's proposal to heart. I will hold the motion and give it to Mr Azarkan, who will then submit it elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u522	I will inform my colleague of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u523	At the request of Mr Kuzu, I propose his motion (35000-XV, No. 79). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u524	That's it for me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u525	Thank you, Minister, I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment for the motions in her area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u526	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to answer a few questions. Mrs Van Brenk asked me whether I would like to provide financial incentives to municipalities running fast for sheltered work. I said I'd figure out the financial reasoning back there. The bonus of €3,000 is intended for municipalities that run fast. You only get a bonus if you have realized a place. So there was that in there. Then I had a question from Mr Bruins whether I would like to set up a monitor on buddy training. I understand Mr Bruins' need very well and I will discuss with Divosa how we can get a closer look at this. I would have remarked in the first period that the maximum fine in the case of discrimination in employment was €3,000, but that turns out to be €4,500. I'd like to correct that here. Mr Raemakers asked about the progress of his motion on the individual study allowance. I had reported to the Chamber before the summer that the results would become available in the fourth quarter of 2018. I asked both the CBS and the Inspection SZW to carry out an investigation, which was also the reason why it was not possible to do this before 1 September. I expect to be able to share the results of that investigation with you in the course of the next month. Then I'll get to the motions. Perhaps Mr De Jong's first motion, in part No. 36, the whole debate that we had well together, because I fully agree with the first part of the request. I'm just dealing with the fact that there's a statute of limitations in cases like this. This also applies to all matters, and that means that I have to discourage the motion. There is a limitation period on many offences, crimes and offences, and there is also a limitation period of 20 years. If that weren't in there, I could give this motion judgment Chamber, but it's there. That is why I must discourage the motion, and I note that I agree with what he said in the first part of his request. The request of the Wiersma/Peters motion to item No. I should like to include 42 on recovery in the investigation that has already been announced. I would also like to see whether I can look at the first one as a proposed solution direction. If I can see the motion in that light, I can give this judgment Chamber. Then there is a broadly signed motion by Mr Renkema, among others, on item No. 47 on the simplification of the herd-free foot. I see this as a fine incentive and I also want to do everything necessary to implement this law as soon as possible. With that I give this motion judgment Chamber. The motion by Mr Renkema, Mr Raemakers and Mr Bruins to item No. 48 calls for additional structural attention for this group. I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber, because it's really about attention and I can't say anything about the money yet. After all, we are still negotiating the ESF. I see an interruption coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u527	I have a question about the assessment of my motion in part No. 36 on the recovery of benefit fraud. Couldn't the Secretary of State just consult with her colleague on V and J? Or J and V, what is it these days?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u528	Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u529	About how to handle this. If the Secretary of State says that as far as she is concerned, it should also be the case that benefit fraud should always be recovered and that you would prefer not to have limitation periods, then you might be able to consult with your colleague and, on that basis, perhaps give a ruling to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u530	I've been thinking about that possibility, too. We have previously looked for such an opportunity in the explanation about the behaviour and the people working in child care. That was possible then, so I've already had that thought. Only there are limitation periods, even for murder, so I have to deal with the legal framework on this. Because of that statute of limitations, and only for that reason, I can't help but dissuade the motion. I do not want to go on a journey that I know I will return with the same message. I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u531	Finally. The moment you want something, you can make it happen. The Secretary of State is now saying that there are limitation periods. You could also choose to say that you do not want those limitation periods or that the limitation period, which is now 20 years, is set at 40 years. I'd rather not see any possibility of statute of limitations. It may be that the Secretary of State considers this to be so important that she consults her colleague on how to get out of this. On that basis, you can give the motion judgment Chamber. If you say no, that's okay, we'll see in the mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u532	For that reason, and for that reason alone, I can't do that. It's also with J and V's colleagues. If I'd seen room in that, I'd have looked for it, but I just want to be honest with you. I will make every effort to fight the first part of the request for each other. I shall go to Mr Renkema's motion on item No. 49, which asks me to investigate the effects of social developments on the number of burn-outs. If I can involve this in the investigation that is already planned and ongoing, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 51. I experience it as a support to enter into the conversation with the municipalities. I'll give the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 52 by Mr Peters and Mrs Van Brenn ask me to speak to the ESC for an exploration of working poor people. I'll give the motion judgment Chamber, because I think it's good that we get this picture. The motion in part No. 53 by Mr Peters. This runs across departments. Agreements have also been made within the framework of the inter-administrative programme, in which we talk with VWS and BZK among others. It's about kids and kids. That cooperation is reflected in the motion and I hereby give her judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. Mr Peters, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Raemakers. They want me to make it clear to the municipalities that they can provide tailor-made services. I'll give the motion judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 56 by Mr Jasper van Dijk on sheltered work. I was thinking back to the interrupting debate we had and I was wondering if Mr Jasper van Dijk would be inclined to turn this motion into: involving in the evaluation. I think we had a broad feeling here that we had a direction to take. When it comes to broadening access without that evaluation, I must discourage the motion. But I am prepared to include this in the evaluation so that we can have that discussion. Then I can give him judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u533	The motion does not rule out your involvement in the evaluation. If you ask me to read the motion in this way, I would say that you can. The motion doesn't say anything about the evaluation. If you say that you would like to include this in the evaluation, then I say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u534	Yeah, except I've noticed that motions lead their own lives. The accompanying words go into the Acts, where they remain forever. I attach great importance to the text in the motion in order not to raise expectations that I cannot live up to. I think we were on the road together in the interrupting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u535	Let me take a look at the President, because the spoken word is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u536	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u537	It's in the Acts now, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u538	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u539	You can always call me on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u540	That is absolutely true, but the Secretary of State is still talking about her own appreciation of the motion. If there is no modification of the motion and that leads to a dissuade, then I simply have to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u541	I have noticed that these debates and these kinds of motions are being followed very well. That is why I attach myself to the words that stand in black and white. But I hope we can work it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u542	We're gonna see. You know, Mr. Van Dijk, that the motion will be dissuaded if it stays that way. If the motion is modified, she will be judged Chamber. All the groups present now know that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u543	Then the motion to part No. Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. They ask for an examination of whether it is possible to work with an income supplement. We do a lot of research, but I don't have the opportunity to do this right now, because this is a big system change. I don't want us doing research that raises expectations. That's why I have to discourage this motion. I come to Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion on item No. 58 on the Authority's Consumer & Market. If I may read the motion in such a way that the Minister for Legal Protection, the State Secretary of EZK and I will involve the motion in the elaboration of the collection register, which the Chamber will be informed about at the beginning of 2019, then I will leave its judgment Chamber. I see Mr. Jasper van Dijk nodding, so I dare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u544	The motion can be interpreted in this way, because I also see Mr Jasper van Dijk nodding in the affirmative. The motion has judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u545	Very good. Then the motion to part No. 62 by Mr Raemakers and Mr Renkema on medical hours limitation. This is something I want to do and what I want to involve in the drafting of the bill. That's how I give her judgment, Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Raemakers and Mr Bruins on youth guidance. It's a nice encouragement and a nice accent. I'll give the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 65 is about stopping the cuts in social services. I'd advise against it. I would remind you of the debate we have had on the future, but that is not the issue now. That's why I advise against this motion. Mr Bruins' motion for a resolution (Doc. 68 has been signed by many MPs and is about bringing together municipalities and education and care institutions and working on guidance across age and life domains. I'll give the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 70 by Mrs Van Brenn on a clear framework for debt relief. I think it is very good that good initiatives taken by municipalities should also be brought to a higher level. We are working on this, but I do not think that the enforcement of a national framework is appropriate. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The motion in part No. 71 by Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Van Rooijen, on the obligation to apply for assistance and to replace that obligation by activities aimed at personal development. I know that customisation is already possible, but as far as I am concerned, the perspective is mainly focused on work. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Mr Kuzu's motion for a resolution 80 is about the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan. I think it is a good idea to see whether a measure we are proposing is actually useful. That's why I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 81 is about marking the money for poverty reduction. I have noticed in the debate that we are very much in agreement that all this money should go to children, but we differ on the way forward. I am not in favour of a target benefit, which is why I advise against this motion. Mr President, I would like to thank your Chamber and the officials, whom I wish to thank tonight for the right of inaccessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u546	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and for the good debate we have had with each other. This brings us to the end of the debate on the Social Affairs and Employment budget. Voting on the budget, the amendments to it and the motions for resolutions will take place next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 8 p.m., after which we shall proceed with this year's final budget debate. That is the budget for external trade and development cooperation.
