ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy for 2019. I welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate. Thank you for coming to the Chamber. We have 18 speakers today. We will begin with the PVV spokesperson, who has a speaking time of twenty minutes. I call Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u2	Indeed, Mr President, twenty minutes of speaking time. I can hear the rulers sighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u3	I see there's a point of order right away. Excuse me, I'll interrupt you immediately. There is a point of order from Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u4	Mr President, that's right. I have a point of order. I asked for a letter in the scheme on the government's position on the construction of nuclear power stations. It was three very simple questions. The letter's not here yet. My question is whether the letter will appear on the way. He's in the pipeline. Is he in the middle or at the end of the pipeline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u5	We redirect this section of the stenogram to the cabinet. As soon as there is white smoke, we will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. We ask through the Registry, through the usual channels, what is the state of play with regard to the arrival of the letter requested. Excuse me, Mr. Kops. You have the floor for your contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet wants to go to a fully CO-neutral Netherlands. Last Wednesday night we had a debate in this Chamber on the forthcoming climate agreement. Then the PVV said: priceless, nonsensical and impossible. There's some kind of obsessive fight against CO emissions going on. Everything seems to be allowed to do so. No cure is shunned. The most savage and ill-thought-out plans are presented. Everyone will have to believe: citizens need to get rid of gas, households need to get rid of the heat pump and about the whole country will be flooded with windmills. That is the climate agreement in a nutshell. Although the Minister insists that climate policy should be affordable and "to be achieved," the financial suffering will not be perceptible. Despite the fact that the Plan Bureau for the Environment states in its calculation of the climate agreement that there is nothing to say about issues such as burden-sharing and revenue effects, independent research agency CE Delft has indicated that the highest costs will be incurred in the built environment and that, above all, lower incomes will come into the financial problems, as they have lost an increasing share of their income on energy. So what do you mean, "payability"? Mr. Chairman. It is therefore cynical that Diederik Samsom, you know, the PvdAer, has proudly said that the bill should be distributed as fairly as possible. Between households and companies, he means. A farce, because in reality the account is divided between households and households. 'Cause it's just her and no one else who's gonna take the fall. And even the Minister recognized that six months ago. And that's telling. I quote: "Evident remains that all costs, directly or indirectly, are ultimately borne by society. Households see costs in product prices, rent, house prices, energy costs or taxes, for example." Does the Minister still support this ruling? This means that whatever citizens buy, everything becomes more expensive as a result of climate policy. During the hearing last week, Mr Schuurman of CSR Netherlands even talked about a cup of coffee that could become more expensive as a result of climate policy. That is, of course, too ridiculous for words. That's inexplicable. There is only one solution: to stop this madness before it is too late. Each household receives a tax discount on the energy account, also called "energy tax reduction," a fixed amount per year. That was once meant to keep the energy bill affordable. Today, affordability and energy are in stark contrast to each other. No affordability. Next year the tax discount will be reduced from €308 to €257, a difference of €51. Energy, a basic need, is becoming a luxury product for more and more people. It's called energy poverty. In a once prosperous country like the Netherlands that is a fact. One million households can barely or not pay the ever-increasing energy bill. But you shouldn't expect this cabinet to lower the bill. This cabinet has nothing to do with the ordinary man or woman, because next year the energy bill for an average household increases by €150. Mr. Chairman. In addition to households, the obsessive fight against CO also requires car owners to believe in it, at least as far as D66 is concerned. Because last week, this party proposed the plan to reduce the speed limit on motorways in order to reduce CO emissions. Of course, that's too bizarre for words. The question then arises, of course, whether this reduced speed limit may also apply to electric cars, of which D66 is such a fan. In the case of cars with an internal combustion engine, I should like to mention some 80 km/h or even less, while electric cars on the same highway are allowed to rip by at 150 km/h. Is that how D66 sees it? What an ill-thought-out plan. As the PVV said, anything is possible in the context of the climate obsession. Minister, please tell us that you are not going into this madness of your coalition partner. Instead, look at a country like Germany, where the Energy Week is a great tragedy. So far, EUR 500 billion has been spent on it, while the CO concentration has barely decreased. The German Court of Auditors was the alarm clock recently. He accused the Federal Government of not wanting to provide an overview of the costs. There is no cost-benefit analysis at all. And that's how it is here in the Netherlands. Here too, we are dealing with a minister who continues to be secretive about costs. Nevertheless, the costs in Germany are very high. Over 2 trillion in 2050. For the record, that's a 2 with 12 zeros. Those are amounts where you can't even make a performance. Germany once wanted to play a leading role in the energy transition, but Germany is now nothing but a very bad example. Mr. Chairman. As the PVV said, the Minister continues to be secretive about the total costs. Recently he applauded the fact that a permit was issued for the construction of a windmill park at sea without subsidies, for the first time. The Minister said it's a scoop. However, it turns out to be bullshit, because the connection of the park to the electricity grid still requires a subsidy of around EUR 4 billion from the SDE+ pool. Or is the park not connected to the electricity grid? Of course you can. That's how we're being fooled. So no, Minister, wind energy is not profitable. Wind energy still can't do without a subsidy. The citizens are directly responsible for this through the energy bill, through the storage of renewable energy. Speaking of wind energy. Wherever there are plans to install windmills, they encounter resistance from the local population. Take windpark Bijvanck in the municipality of Zevenaar. The city didn't want those things at all. Local politics and the population had spoken loudly and clearly against it. But what does their opinion matter, the province of Gelderland must have thought, because by means of a provincial integration plan the windmill plans were simply pushed through. That's how it's done in so many places. People don't want windmills, but they get them anyway. It's just being pushed down their throats. It is therefore cynical that the climate agreement speaks prominently about acceptance. I quote: "Additional costs due to climate change must be acceptable to all households in order to maintain the support for this transition." There is also talk of financial participation. I quote: 'This with the ambition that 50% of new renewable production on land will be owned by the local environment'. What exactly does this mean? Can the Minister explain this? 'Cause there's no support at all. People do not want windmills, but do they have to participate financially? This looks like buying support! And what kind of financial participation do we actually talk about if SDE+ subsidies are still being provided for wind farms, which are being coughed up by the citizens themselves through the energy bill? That's a cigar from your own box. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Let us not forget: this whole climate madness, what is it really good for? According to the International Energy Agency, for the first time more than 100 million barrels of oil are produced per day. A record. While the Netherlands is obsessed with solar and wind energy, an additional gas pipeline is being built from Russia to Germany and Shell is building a huge liquid gas plant in Canada and 250 new gas wells in Australia. Not to mention the many coal plants in China and India. So in the Netherlands, all coal plants must be closed by 2030, and preferably earlier, while almost 60% of all coal plants are in China and India. A quarter of total global emissions come from China alone. So are all these coal plants going to close in 2030? No, of course not. Of course not, because the Chinese do not want to be in the dark and in the cold. And rightly so. The conclusion is that the world is not going away from fossil fuels at all. In fact, fossil apparently still has the future. But here in the Netherlands there is an obsessive fight against CO, at least against only 0.35% of it, because that is the negligible Dutch share of total global emissions. Costs: hundreds of billions. Effect: zero. It's madness at the top. Mr President, speaking of madness. Something other than solar panels. As far as the Minister is concerned, these things are practically on every roof, because that is good for the climate and, he says, good for the wallet. Lower loads, then he cheers. That sounds good, of course. It's about time. It also sounds a bit uncomfortable from the mouth of a VVD minister of a cabinet that ultimately only increases the burden on households, but well. A ruling by the court of Arnhem-Leeuwarden shows that solar panels can be included in the determination of the WOZ value of the house. So that World War II value's going up. This means that municipal taxes go up, that the home forfait goes up and that the waterboard tax goes up. A higher World Health Organisation also has an impact on the waste tax, on income tax, you name it all. Everything becomes more expensive as a result. Yeah, there you are with your solar panels. I thought they were supposed to pay off. So it becomes clear, little by little, that the energy transition is going to cost an incredible amount of money. In every possible way, now also through the World Trade Organisation value, money is being knocked out of the pockets of the citizens in a devious way. No method is left unused. On 27 September last, the PVV, together with the SP, Mrs Beckerman, tabled a motion to prevent a higher WOZ value due to solar panels. But no, the motion was rejected. The VVD voted against. The whole coalition voted against it, by the way. How hypocritical and how sneaky it is that yesterday the VVD had recorded in De Telegraaf: terrible that the WWZ goes up through solar panels; can't, can't; we're going to arrange it. Then why did the VVD vote against it? Better stealing than making up bad ideas, maybe that's it? I'm curious how the VVD can explain this folklore to the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u7	I was having second thoughts, because it is already very tiring to listen to this. Anyway, we already mentioned this in September. We were working on it. It's just being reviewed in the Tax Plan. We all agree that if you invest in solar panels, this should not mean that you get higher costs on the other hand, for example because the WPA value goes up. So if the PVV is so concerned about all kinds of sustainability measures, I would advise you to just join us. We think about it then, we come up with concrete proposals and then we deal with it for the people. That's a lot more useful than constantly turning off the same picture here. You must get tired of it yourself, mustn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u8	I sense a little irritation with Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u9	Fatigue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u10	Yeah, fatigue, that's possible. Well, you can leave if you want. It's none of my business. But Mrs Yeşilgöz knows how to turn it around very nicely. Mrs Yeşilgöz simply cannot have it that we of the PVV were with the SP earlier with this, with a motion to ensure that solar panels are not included in the determination of the WOZ value. I take it from Mrs Yeşilgöz that she simply agrees. Then she can explain to the people at home why, if she agrees, she will vote against that motion. Despite all the fine words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u11	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u12	Yeah, that's obvious. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stay with the VVD for a while. Just yesterday: nuclear power. We need to build new nuclear power stations, according to the chairman of the VVD group. Sounds good. Little late, though. The PVV talks about it all the time. The VVD may be tough about this now, but nowhere in the climate agreement at least the proposal now before us is talking about nuclear energy. Nowhere! How is that possible? Can the Minister, who is the minister of the same party as the chairman of the largest political group in this Chamber who made those statements respond to this? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of Groningen, because there is still a big mess. The damage settlement is virtually dead. The PVV didn't come up with that, but those are the words of the Groningen deputy responsible for the earthquake record. The Minister also recognizes that the settlement of damages by the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen is still too slow. It's an understatement. More than 80% of the more than 6,000 old damage cases would have been dealt with by now. Those duped were thus still at the whims of the NAM, but they finally accepted the offer of the NAM. However, this does not mean that all of these people are satisfied with it, people who have reluctantly agreed because they just want to get rid of it, because they are done, because they have had enough of this years of struggle for compensation. That's understandable. That does not alter the fact that many doomed people are shattered with a shred of real damage. It's like blackmail. People are being pressured by the NAM and bought off with a tip. Recently, the PVV had a conversation with the NAM; a matter of hearing and hearing again. "We are absolutely compensating for all mining damage," we were told, "but only mining damage. Cracks in the walls are, of course, compensated, but some of the victims are keen to have their entire farm rebuilt." It's like the bad guys do it all for fun. It's like they're out to rebuild their entire farm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u13	I am a little surprised to listen to the strong words of the PVV. Because the Netherlands is the third CO-emission in Europe; only Malta and Luxembourg emit more. Actually, we're doing exactly what you want us to do. And what happens? On the contrary, all kinds of companies want us to stop doing this and invest in clean technology. They want us to help them so that they, as entrepreneurs, can seize that world opportunity. Don't you give those companies that world chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u14	We need to stop the energy transition. We have to stop doing that. The PVV is about the citizens. We were elected by PVV voters, our voters. That's what we're standing up for. And we see their burdens go up every year. The energy bill will go up by €150 next year. For the purpose of degassing a house, the amounts vary. Making all homes gasless already costs more than 235 billion. That's over €30,000 per house. At the end of the day, it will really have to come out of the pockets of the citizens. That's the point. And we don't want that. You come up with "we have to give companies a chance." What do you mean, give him a chance? We stand up for the citizens. Their burdens go up. We don't want that. Stop that energy transition. Stop with the crazy climate policy. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u15	So you resent them for the chance of the world. And perhaps even worse: the cost of doing nothing is much higher for our country. You're completely ignoring that. That's okay, but then I notice that you're actually cutting our country down twice. We can do it well now, help people in a very affordable way to live affordable, drive cheaper and live more comfortably, and help with that entrepreneurial opportunity, which creates many more jobs. And what do you say? We're just dropping the Netherlands. We're just gonna flood the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u16	Please speak through the chairman, because I am not saying that at all. Mr Kops was the one who was addressed. He's gonna answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u17	I'm just thinking. Did I hear the word "affordable"? It can't be. I think you're from D66, a government party. You will personally ensure that next year's energy bill goes up by €150. Then you can come up with 'yes, but the cost of doing nothing is much higher', but that is another typical argument, because the cost of energy transition, of climate policy, is getting a little clearer. The PVV has asked the minister so many times: what exactly does it cost? Every time we didn't get an answer, but little by little it becomes clear: it's going to cost hundreds of billions. Then suddenly we get such an opportunity argument. Yes, you can run away now. That's what it is, an occasional argument: you bring something in and then you walk away. It's easy. You come up with the occasional argument "yes, but doing nothing costs more." How much? Can you come up with a few calculations? Could you give me a few numbers? How many billion more will do nothing but cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u18	Mr. Kops, my invitation to speak through the chairman also applies to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u19	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u20	I note that you are not asking those questions to me, but to Mr Sienot of D66. He may respond, but we have agreed a total of eight questions per group. So you're starting your third question, Mr. Sienot. Okay, I see the choice is different. Then I suggest that Mr Kops continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u21	So I still haven't heard any figures. Let me make that clear. It's easy. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the NAM. So he leaves it to pay out, to compensate for damage. According to the NAM, the injured would be out to make a sale, to rebuild their entire farm at the expense of the NAM. If an entire farm needs to be rebuilt because due to the years of tremors it is no longer possible to save a few cracks, then that must of course be done. But the NAM is failing. Now take Tina and Jan Kuiper. Shortly after the couple had been married for 60 years, the municipality of Delfzijl declared their home uninhabitable! They had a diamond wedding. A telegram followed with the King's congratulations; very nice. But what a feast, because for a few weeks they have been forced to live in a stand on their own property. They just can't go anywhere. And how does the NAM react to this? I quote. "This is very annoying for the couple in the first place." That's cynical. "The damage to the home is not the result of earthquakes." Well, you'll have to deal with that. Meanwhile, the whole place is collapsing. For years, the couple paid the mortgage nicely, but all that money went up in smoke. And then to realize that last year's Safe Living Centre made a profit of 2.5 million euros, a record. Making a profit in dealing with damages is simply not explainable, certainly not because the whole Chamber voted against it last year. What has the Minister done about it since then? How can it be that such an organization makes a big profit over the backs of those who literally live in a building trap and fight for years for a decent handling of their damage, often in vain? An independent and generous damages settlement promised the Minister, but nothing will come of it at all. Mr. Chairman. We read in the budget that the cabinet is working together with the Groningen region on a new perspective for the future and that an amount of EUR 1 billion will be made available for this purpose. Apart from the fact that the region of Groningen is not aware of this so-called cooperation, what is the purpose of this money? What future perspective are we talking about here when houses, something very basic actually, are still on the verge of collapse, there is no solution and people are completely left to their fate? It's like giving a construction drop a new layer of paint and then saying, "Look, dissolved. Look how beautiful!" In the case of Tina and Jan Kuiper this is almost literally the case. Mr President, so much for Groningen. Something completely different. The transition may be a bit crazy, but I also have some questions for the Secretary of State. From climate I go via Groningen to the subject of creditboys; totally different. Do you know what a credit boy is? Creditboys are a kind of loverboys, but they don't let young people prostitute, they let them take out credits, such as phone subscriptions with associated phones. Phone fraud under duress, that's it. It still happens all the time. The victims are in huge debt and the credit boys are taking off with the expensive phones. There are stories of victims who have signed multiple subscriptions within a few weeks. With all kinds of promises and nice talk, they're being set up. What is the Secretary of State doing about this? The ACM pays extensive attention to matters such as safety and quality of the technical infrastructure in the Netherlands. But what about protecting citizens and consumers from these creditboy practices? What about the stolen phones? These are valuable products for the black market. Can these devices not be traced, blocked or rendered unusable? Is the Secretary of State prepared to bring together interested parties, such as Marketplace, where these things are sold, the BKR, the police and the providers, to finally put a stop to these creditboy practices? I like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u22	Thank you for your contribution. Before moving on to the next speaker, I would like to inform the Chamber that, following Mr Moorlag's question, we asked the Ministry. The requested letter on nuclear energy reaches the Chamber during the evening. That's what I can tell you. We don't know specifically at the hour and the minute when that letter comes, but in the course of the evening. The next speaker was Mr Wörsdörfer of the VVD. It's his maiden speech. That means that he must not be interrupted and that we must all listen without interruption to what he has to say, or can or may listen. You can choose your own choice. I call Mr Wörsdörfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You already pointed it out. This is indeed my maiden speech. I looked it up. I've been in the Chamber for 594 days. And even though I don't float on a cloud through the hallways like the first few weeks, I still think it's great that I get to do this job. I imagine people think that 594 days is quite long before you can finally stand here in this place. But I would like to say to those people that much of the work takes place elsewhere in this building. And much more work takes place outside, of course. Mr. Chairman. I won't tire you with my life story and exactly how I got here. I'm here on behalf of the VVD for the entrepreneurs, so let's do business. As an economic spokesperson and as an SME spokesperson, I like to be on the road and in conversation with the entrepreneurs. In recent years I have spoken a few hundred in their company, at conferences and here in the Lower House. You see what wonderful things they do in this country. All I do is talk to people who are passionate. That gives me energy again. Mr. Chairman. I'm happy to help those entrepreneurs. Then perhaps you think: why does a liberal want to help entrepreneurs? Doesn't he believe in his own responsibility? Of course I believe that, but entrepreneurs want to do what they are generally good at, namely doing business. That's their responsibility. The government must be in the way with as few rules as possible. As far as I am concerned, that is the core business of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, of EZK. Yet we need rules and they must be good, simple and efficient. An entrepreneur should not spend hours on all kinds of administrative misery. That's a shame. This entrepreneur can better put his time or her energy and creativity into entrepreneurship, for example in the challenge of climate policy with common sense........................................................................................................................................ Mr. Chairman. SMEs are the driving force behind the Dutch economy. With the coalition agreement and the recent package of measures for the business community and our locational environment, we have started to lighten the burden that benefits the SME entrepreneur in particular on the corner of the street and in the shopping centre. I'll mention a few. The income tax goes down. For example, the low Vpb rate even goes to 15%. This is particularly good for SMEs. Employers' labour costs are down by 200 million. A reduction of 100 million was announced earlier. And we're giving an extra 100 million in research and development. These are excellent measures to make SMEs feel that the Netherlands is doing better and at the same time to keep the Dutch locational environment in order, including for multinationals. Because, Mr President, I think we should stop creating false contradictions between small and medium-sized enterprises on the one hand and large companies, multinationals on the other. Small and medium-sized enterprises have an enormous amount of work, precisely because of the presence of these large companies, as suppliers of raw materials or semi-finished products, for example, or as caterers of lunches or drinks, and also because then there are often simply more people who have a good job and can spend their money at the local middle classes, such as the shoemaker on the corner. Examples too much! MKB and large companies just need each other. Let's acknowledge that. Mr. Chairman. The annual State of SMEs shows that small entrepreneurs experience concrete problems in three areas. The first point is finding good staff. The second is the lack of funding and the third is the challenges of digitisation. These problems hamper the growth of SMEs. The Secretary of State for EZK has presented a large number of action plans in recent years that touch on these issues. We welcome this because it clearly shows that the cabinet is prepared to take action. But now we also want to see more action and know when we can expect results. 'Cause that's all that matters. On the first point, the lack of skilled staff, we want to instruct the Cabinet to take full advantage of the Technics Pact and to provide skilled personnel who are digitally literate. This is important to meet the challenges of the future, such as the energy transition. How is the Secretary of State going to push this further? In addition, we see employers tending and weighing to see if they will hire someone. For example, this is in the financial risks of being an employer, but that is something for the budgetary treatment of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. The only thing I miss so far is attention to the administrative misery that an entrepreneur is facing in the role of employer, for example the administrative obligations in the event of illness, leave or reintegration or the administration that the entrepreneur is required to conduct for the Tax Administration or the UWV. Our appeal to EZK is here to map that and to come up with proposals to make this easier for the entrepreneur. Furthermore, it has been agreed to shorten the pay-by-pay period for diseases in SMEs by one year. Everyone agrees, but it doesn't make any sense. As far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State for EZK has to push this further. Does she wish to urge her colleagues to do so? As far as we are concerned, she is looking at this a little harshly. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few suggestions on the second point: lack of funding. The first concerns payment deadlines. The government is doing its best to pay within 30 days, and that is moving in the right direction, but there are signs that large companies are increasing their payment deadlines, and that is not the intention. We ask the cabinet to include this in the review of the law, which is precisely to ensure that SMEs are paid more quickly. Furthermore, we still see banks rejecting a high percentage of SME loan applications. What exactly is that in? Only when that is understandable do you know whether all the instruments that are being deployed will work, so that picture should be taken into account in the analysis of the coherence of the financial instruments that the Court will receive at the beginning of 2019. Is the Secretary of State willing to take this? Finally, as far as the VVD is concerned, there is a need to review the security law. This sometimes hinders entrepreneurs in making new loans, because banks often claim and hold on to a disproportionate amount of collateral for a long time, even after most of the credit has been repaid. Is the Cabinet prepared to investigate such a review? Mr. Chairman. As an IT politician of the past year, I naturally have a special eye for the third challenge: digitisation, or wider, the opportunities for technological developments. We have good arrangements to stimulate innovation. I mentioned the expansion of the Wbso. Couldn't it go in a year earlier? Is there room, for example, to keep the PPS surcharge at level? After all, this supplement encourages private investment in research, which we desperately need. We want pace with experimental space, for example for fintech. As far as we are concerned, EZK should draw the attention of our colleagues in the Justice and Security Committee to new developments in which experimental space is needed. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD? Can it make this part of the annual digitalisation summit initiated by the VVD, where companies, science and government will meet to discuss the ambitions for the coming year? By the way, we would like to hear how the preparations for that summit are going. 5G and fast fixed internet are crucial in the development and deployment of new technologies, such as self-driving cars and smart cities. This is also very important for start-ups, SMEs and the region. The VVD has therefore always been committed to a quick auction of the different frequency bands, so that the Netherlands does not come chasing after other European countries. Any sign of an auction date yet? During the AO Telecommunications, among other things, there was talk of redistributing frequencies for digital radio. Many radio stations are involved in the task force set up at the request of the Chamber. The Dutch local public broadcasters are literally and figuratively threatening to become the child of the account. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give broadcasting a full place with DAB+? Then I come to an evergreen. I love music. In my office, here in the Chamber, there are now 1,000 albums, but I don't like this tune at all. It is the greyened plate of unnecessary and needlessly complicated or unclear rules. As I said, it is the core task of EZK to combat this in all the policies that the Empire is pursuing. Especially for small and medium-sized enterprises that cannot afford expensive departments to do all that administration, rules are often too complicated and difficult to implement. There is not enough tailor-made work for SMEs. Recent internet consultations among entrepreneurs show that they still see too many rules and that they would like to co-operate on new rules. Last week, in a general discussion, we discussed the slow pace at which the SME test was introduced. That test should ensure that, before policy or law is made, a department considers with entrepreneurs whether it is feasible and feasible. I called for the SME test to be applied immediately, as of today, to each department, according to the principle: apply or explain. The Secretary of State said she would like to await the evaluation of the ongoing trials. But wouldn't it be better to introduce that SME test directly and nationally? Then a point where the core task of EZK, less and simpler rules, comes together with an important core task of the government in general: security. The Netherlands is high on the list of shoplifters per capita worldwide. The most conservative estimate of what that costs is EUR 300 million per year. This can also have a significant impact on shop staff and shoppers. Think, for example, of ramcracking, or armed robberies. As far as the VVD is concerned, the approach to shoplifting is given more priority. That is why, together with Mr Van Oosten, I have put forward a series of proposals, such as the introduction of a ban on bags of predatory material to circumvent the alarm of detection gates. With a bag like that, you shouldn't be able to cross the street anymore. And since we see that more than 30% of shopkeepers who have been robbed are no longer reporting shoplifting, we propose to simplify the filing of the declaration, because that percentage should be reduced. And in the case of robbing gangs, responsible for estimated one third of shoplifting, it should be standard, for example, for crimes to be swept together throughout the country and in different regions when imposing a penalty. In the suspension, I'll hand those proposals over to the Secretary of State. We are, of course, asking for a response. You can do that in writing. I do not expect a detailed input on all the suggestions contained in it. We are also aware that Justice and Security plays an important role in this. And we hope for a joint response to our suggestions. Finally, Mr President, a comment on the forthcoming Brexit. I see that the department, for example, with campaigns from the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland, invests enormously in entrepreneurs pointing out the risks and how they can prepare for the Brexit. But surveys show that this message does not land sufficiently. How can we point our entrepreneurs at this more specifically? Is it an idea, for example, to work with entrepreneurs with experience to ensure that customs procedures are easy to understand for the, grab him, 35,000 Dutch entrepreneurs who have no experience of doing business with third countries but do business with the United Kingdom, and to help them do so? And to target those entrepreneurs, for example through the Chamber of Commerce or the Tax Administration? I'd like a response to that suggestion. Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to continue to speak with all those entrepreneurs who run our country in the near future. Because, as I said, the real work does not necessarily take place in this room, but often also outside this building. The concerns they have, I will continue to bring forward here. As far as I am concerned, it is our duty to ensure that these entrepreneurs suffer as little as possible from the government. Mr. Chairman. I thank you and the Members for your attention during this maiden speech. An important moment - for me anyway. And I am very much looking forward to the cabinet's answer to our questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u24	Thank you. Please stand still. It's definitely an important moment. In addition, I should like to say a few words about the President-in-Office of the Council. Making your dream debut in the Chamber. You say I've been in the Chamber for 594 days, and this is just my maiden speech. I understand that you have waited until the moment of the budget debate, because in the case of budgetary treatment you can talk about the whole policy area of the person concerned and so you can also choose where your heart lies. I wrote down: "enjoy," "IT" and "crazy about music." The cliffhanger is that you didn't tell us exactly which music you like. I'd really like to ask you that, but we're about to. I'm suspending my congratulations. The first congratulations are mine: congratulations on this maiden speech! I shall now suspend the sitting so that other colleagues can also congratulate you. At another moment I would like to ask you exactly what your favourite band is; I am interested in that again. I'm suspending the meeting, right before dinner break, until 7:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u25	For the suspension for dinner break we had Mr Wörsdörfer as spokesman on behalf of the VVD Group. But they still have a spokesperson, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. And this isn't her maiden speech, so she can be interrupted. I understand that several people are already warm for that. But we are just going to start listening to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius' input on behalf of the VVD group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for this entrapment too. I'm curious. I would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, Mr Wörsdörfer, on his maiden speech. I myself find it admirable to see how he has been working every day since his installation for entrepreneurs, for mbk'ers, for everyone who keeps our society and economy running. I am glad that you have now been able to see this in this plenary. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the budget, so we are talking about the cabinet's plans for the coming year. When it comes to the climate, it is a bit difficult, because at the moment more than 100 parties, from Tata Steel to Greenpeace, employers, workers, are working together to see how our country can go through the energy transition in the smartest way possible. So it is a little difficult to talk about concrete measures for next year, but we are going to talk about that. I do not think we can talk enough about climate either. I said here last week, again in another climate debate, that it is up to us people's representatives not only to worry about the Netherlands today, but also about the Netherlands of the future and also to take responsibility for the generations after us, so that the Netherlands is also a beautiful and fine country for them. I'll have a sip of water, Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u27	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u28	Thank you. While we are committed to the Netherlands of the future, it is important that we do not be distracted by climate deniers, people who say: well, science is just an opinion. That's what they're saying just to avoid taking responsibility. Nor should we be distracted by drammers, people for whom things cannot go fast enough, who want to determine how long you can wash your hair and how often I can eat meat. I think we should focus on sensible climate policy. So it's common sense. That sounds very easy, but sometimes it seems to be more complicated than that. I'm sure we'll be able to talk about that shortly. We're not just doing this because we find it ourselves. I speak to Dutch people every day who say to me, I am sure that all my colleagues can agree that they also want a good future for their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren and that they want to work for it, but sometimes they really don't know what they are up to. I understand that very well. These people read in the newspaper that CV boilers should no longer exist within three years and are all banned or that they should put thousands of euros on the table tomorrow in their own pocket to make their homes more sustainable. I understand that's gonna make you all miserable and wonder where you're at. I think it's very important that we show that we keep the calm. We have great ambitions, which we share with almost everyone here, but we do have until 2050. People who live in Heerlen, Apeldoorn, Amersfoort or anywhere else may not be working on those solar panels and heat pumps at all, but want to know what's going to happen on their streets and when it's going to happen. Maybe your resume boiler is broken and you just want to know if it makes sense to buy a new one or if it makes sense to solve it in another way, because in two years' time a heat grid will come into your street. I would like there to be an objective information agency, a place, a website, where people can just enter and see their zip code: ah, that's what's going to happen for me. I can imagine that, for example, Environment Central could play a role in this. There is already a lot of objective good information there. Perhaps the Minister can see if there or elsewhere there are clear lines for those who want to know what is coming to them. I would very much like us to give that priority and not wait very long for those climate tables and for everything to be ready. 'Cause it's bothering people now. They want to be taken care of now. They want to know what they're up to now. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, we are also dealing with municipal authorities that have so much ambition that they say to their residents: within three years we all have to get rid of natural gas and if you can't afford it, just increase your mortgage, because this has to be done. So this is absolutely how it shouldn't be. Here's what we'll hear. I know that the VNG is also at the table at the climate tables, but I would ask the Minister if he would like to discuss this with the VNG. We really need to be clear: boys, we have until 2050; we can handle this in a smart way, but please don't forget our residents. Let's not forget all those Dutch people who just want to know: where am I? Mr. Chairman. Sensible climate policy is, of course, not just about costs. It's also about benefits. If we play it smart, it could get us a lot of money. My colleague Wörsdörfer has already mentioned all those entrepreneurs, all those SMEs who are so busy with innovation and smart solutions. I very much hope that our country can really sell it and that we can also make money from it. Mr. Chairman. It's also nice for people, whether they have a lot of money or not, who say: I want to be able to participate, whether it's in a neighborhood mill or in a solar panel with the neighbors. There are a lot of ways to become part of this and see if your energy bill can go down. I know a lot of people who just like it. I don't quite understand how such a panel works, but I know people who are really into it and think: cool. I would like us to continue to encourage these people positively. Now we just see a little too often that we run into our old rules and sometimes laws. My colleague Helma Lodders mentioned this earlier this week, and the PVV colleague also mentioned that your WOZ value is rising when you place solar panels. Can't we look at that in a smarter way? Many people are working on solar panels, but there is also a double energy load, for example. The moment you generate energy, store it and throw it back into the market from your battery, you pay double energy taxes. Would the Minister like to look into how often that occurs and whether it is something we should be in favour of before households may all have batteries? In my view, this double energy tax is not desirable and I would like to draw attention to it before it becomes a major problem. Mr. Chairman. Allowing people to benefit from it is another point that I mentioned earlier in one of my first debates as spokesman on climate and energy: the high cost of gas closure. If you want to get rid of the natural gas yourself, you don't want to wait for anyone, you're gonna take care of it yourself and you want to close your gas seal permanently, you're gonna cost hundreds of euros. I get e-mails from people who say: I want to invest in it but this almost feels like punishment. I tabled and held a motion at the time in which I said: can we not make a temporary closure, because it is a lot cheaper, permanent? I thought that was a pretty smart solution myself. The Minister said that it doesn't work like that, because that's not always safe, but I'll look into it. So I would like to ask the Minister to go into that again. Mr. Chairman. We ask a great deal of Dutch people, of companies, of industry. Then it is also quite logical that they expect things from us, for example that we are committed to a smart energy mix. We invest heavily in wind and sun. Beautiful, and I hope we keep doing that. At the same time, we know that the wind doesn't always blow and the sun doesn't always shine. So we need a smart mix, with a backup, so we know that we can keep warming up, that there will be light and that the economy can go crazy. You have already heard in recent days that the VVD is thinking of nuclear energy among other things. It wasn't new that we put that in. At the beginning of the climate tables, I asked here, in various debates, whether we could make sure that innovations and technologies that we might not normally talk about here could get a place at the climate tables. I have repeatedly mentioned hydrogen, geothermal and nuclear energy. The Minister said: of course, all the innovation that is being introduced there simply has a place and then one has to look there to see if it can be scaled up, whether there is security of supply and whether we can do it smartly. Now we are informed by various parties that they simply do not get the discussion on forms of nuclear energy started at the climate tables, that it is simply not there. I'm so sorry about that. I find it extremely regrettable because investigations by the UN, the IPCC reports, show that it can be an important part of a healthy energy mix. A lot of scientists point to it, too. I understand that I did not understand at all, because I myself said that a debate had been requested. So we're going to talk about this in more detail. However, I would like to ask the Minister how we can ensure that all relevant innovation is given a fair chance at these climate tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u29	There is a question for you from Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u30	I am very curious to know which parties say that. I just read a headline on the Internet, in the AD: "Energy giants are filling VVD proposals for new nuclear power plants." The big producers say literally: that book, or building a power station in the Netherlands, is closed to us. Which parties want to discuss the nuclear debate at these climate tables are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u31	I'll ask the parties who e-mailed me. And if they're okay with me sharing their names, I'd be happy to forward them to Mr Van der Lee. I didn't get an e-mail from someone who says, "I have a nuclear power plant in my back pocket, and I want to place it." People say, "It's not even part of the conversation. Can it be part of an energy mix: yes or no?" It is, of course, very strange that we are tumbling all over each other to point out IPCC's reports: "Look, we are behind and we need to do more to achieve those goals!" But then when you see in all these reports that nuclear energy is part of a healthy energy mix, I wonder why it is not discussed at those tables. If it then shows that there are other, smarter, solutions, then that's fine. But not even having the conversation with each other is crazy, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u32	This surprises me too, because I have had a number of debates here and almost every debate deals with nuclear energy. I understand it was discussed at those tables, too. We also had a hearing with the chairman of the Climate Change Council. He also discussed this in detail at the questions raised by Mr Mulder. So that there's a taboo on it is bullshit. And the fact that there's no conversation about it is bullshit, too. But let me just say something about what you think is so important, namely cost-effectiveness. You're not gonna get over that. The large energy producers indicate that it is not cost-effective. Why break your own principle and are you now suddenly arguing for a technology choice, for an additional nuclear power plant in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u33	I ask you to speak through the President. The questions were addressed to Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u34	It is, of course, to be expected that a discussion about nuclear energy will evoke emotion. To be honest, it did that to me at first. But the moment I went into it, I thought, "Wait a minute! This can also be a useful part of a healthy energy mix." And then you're really gonna look at the facts. I therefore invite Mr Van der Lee to do so together. The question is also: cost-effective compared to what? And what are the consequences of that? That's exactly the conversation I wanted to have at those tables. So I hope it comes from those tables, and then we can just put the numbers side by side and tell each other what it's gonna look like. But Mr Van der Lee will agree with me that the wind does not always blow and the sun does not always shine. That is also why the VVD has repeatedly drawn attention to innovations and other technologies: to achieve such a mix. That's what nuclear power was all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u35	Mr Van der Lee with his third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u36	But I really don't understand something. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius will be sent to parliament with a Klaasballon, which is contrary to what the VVD constantly says: cost-effectiveness and clean up your own mess. That is a very important point that she always makes. Then I think: this is totally inconsistent, isn't it? Can you explain to me how to understand the VVD line, if you also make a technology choice? Because you always say that public instruments must be technologically neutral. This story just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u37	The VVD says here that an energy mix is needed. I do not think we disagree on this either. You need a mix to make sure the light is always on. That's just a fact. And that is not only possible with wind and sun, or not yet, is also a fact. There are also researchers who say that they don't know whether batteries will ever become such that they can guarantee security of supply. One assumes you don't, so you'll need a backup. And then nuclear energy makes great sense to consider, for example, because it has no CO emissions, unlike other fossil options, which colleagues here seem to be considering. If we have to choose, we prefer to opt for an option without CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u38	One final question on this point. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius is now talking about switching power. For that there are also very good other and better alternatives, especially when we have green hydrogen. The problem with such a nuclear power plant is that it has to run fully continuously. It's a base loader or else you'll never get it profitable. And that's not very flexible to use as backup for sun and wind. So on that point, too, this proposal simply does not make any sense. And I want to end with a question. What are you going to propose today? Are you asking for money from the government? 'Cause the companies say they're not doing it. Do you want to build a state nuclear power plant? Are you asking for money from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate? What is the specific proposal on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u39	Do you know how many solar panels are needed to generate the same amount of energy as the Borssele nuclear power plant? That's between 12.5 million and 17 million. This is really about a sensible addition to the mix. I have been calling for this for months, but I now understand that it does not land at those tables to be included in the climate agreement. Let us not have an energy mix in a moment where we still have to keep gas plants open, and we also have to rely on Putin for a long time. This could be smarter; research it now. I understand that at the moment there is no company, no company with a business case, because we are all constantly closing this issue down and saying: we can't do that. We then say purely on emotion: this is unspeakable, this simply cannot be done. Then I understand that as an entrepreneur, you don't look at the Netherlands. I would like us to say together: the Dutch have a right to come up with a smart energy mix and do this right. Then we must not be guided by dogmas and images of fear that are not in line with the facts. I would say: just take this with us, so that we can do this as smartly as possible for the Netherlands. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u40	I'm gonna try one more time anyway. I didn't mention any dogma, and I'm not superemotional. I'm just giving hard arguments, like inconsistencies in the VVD line. What is the contribution of nuclear energy to our energy production? 1%. Worldwide, that's less than 2%. If you double that in the next few years, you'll be through all the uranium in 25 years. Uranium is not renewable. Of course, it's part of the existing mix, but it's not an answer for the future at all. Sun and wind are in the long run many, many times cheaper. Those are all arguments; I'm not talking about dogmas. It is especially the VVD that is riding a stick horse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u41	I think it's special. We have been here several times to talk about international investigations, of the UN, of the IPCC, requested by GroenLinks with the words: we have to look at them, we have to look at them. Those investigators are turning this in themselves. They say: if you want a real energy mix, then you hardly get away from the fact that in that mix of wind energy, solar energy and so on, there is also nuclear energy. They warn us that we are not paying attention to this and they advise us to pay attention to this. Then GroenLinks may find that this is not consistent, but I have been asking for this for months. I am based on studies which Mr Van der Lee himself cites and which he says I want to deal with here, because they are important. We can't go fishing out there, Mr. Van der Lee; then we'll look at everything there is. Then we have to conclude that, as the Netherlands, we are wearing blinders when it comes to one part. My definition, my conclusion is that this is because there is a lot of emotion around it and little is looked at the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u42	Some facts, though, like the technology. We see that there is one type of energy that is becoming more and more expensive and for which it takes longer and longer to deliver. That's nuclear power. Almost all other forms of energy, such as solar energy and wind energy, fall into price. The market has already seen this, so everywhere, in all kinds of places, the nuclear power stations are not coming off. In America, they ran away from two of them crying. And yet you want to investigate what the market has already discovered. I don't understand. I also don't understand why the VVD doesn't want to speed things up with us. Because we don't need it. The PBL has calculated that we are going to make it through these technical solutions, which have now come out of the climate talks for the climate agreement. Fantastic! Let's speed this up together. How is the VVD going to speed up with us? Or does she want to slow down with unnecessary investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u43	It's different, by the way. It depends on what kind of power station you have in mind, but that it becomes more expensive in places, is also because it is reduced by these kinds of emotions. This means that there is no further investment in innovation. Look how it went with windmills. Before that the same conversation was held: far too expensive, it can't and you name it. At present, almost the entire section of windmills is non-subsidised. You gotta have that guts, you gotta have the guts to do that. I wonder what the backup plan of D66 is when renewable energy is not enough. Should we fall back on gas plants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u44	These nuclear power plants have the following problem. They close because they're getting so much more expensive each time. I was just explaining. They only become more expensive and it only takes longer before they are delivered. And that is the big difference with those other technologies you call: you can indeed challenge them as a market. And then it develops. Then the performance gets better and it gets cheaper. That's fantastic about the other technologies. That is why the market chooses to do so. That's not taboo, that's a fact. My question to Mrs Yesilgöz is therefore: how are we going to speed up together with, for example, other storage methods, such as hydrogen, green hydrogen, and such as batteries that are also falling very quickly in price? How are we going to use it? And if we use all the billions that you want to bring to nuclear power stations for that, we won't even need that discussion about nuclear power plants in five years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u45	The ambition to make pace, share D66 and the VVD absolutely. Then we'll do it together in this coalition. At the same time, the Netherlands is entitled to realistic policies. I said it at the beginning, I repeated it a few times and I will say it again: I also love wind and solar energy. We're investing heavily in that. I also believe that this should continue to be the case. Together with colleagues, I have also drawn attention to innovations such as hydrogen on several occasions in this Chamber. I also know there's a lot of work to be done on that. But the fact remains that you need a backup. If I had to choose, I would not very quickly opt for gas plants, which you also know is CO emissions, regardless of the dependence of regimes that I have my doubts about. Then I think: why not have a nuclear power plant, why not investigate what contribution a nuclear power plant can make to the energy mix, so that we know what we are talking about? I really hope that's just gonna happen. What I'm asking here is actually just a conversation about facts. What does that look like and would it or would it not be good for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u46	Mr. Sienot, your fifth question. Yeah, it's going fast!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u47	Just one more question. We have about 3% of our energy supply with Borssele. So if we add another one, we have 6%. But we're gonna close Borssele, so we're gonna have another 3%. So we need, let's say, six new power stations to function as a bit of backup capacity. Then we have roughly 20%. If we're going to do that, where exactly are these six plants going to be? We're gonna have provincial state elections. Maybe you can help us a little by telling us where you'd like them to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u48	Look, but now I see an opening at D66 to talk about nuclear energy. And that's the point. The moment we say that we are just looking at the facts, that we are not being guided by emotions, but by what is best for the Netherlands, market players can say: hey, I want to do further research. I know that, for example, the SGP always calls for research into thorium. There are parties who want to do more research into uranium and how to deal with the waste. Then we talk about something and then we can say: okay, these investments are possible and there and there it could be. And that's the point. If you keep shutting the door and saying: no, it's unthinkable; I prefer to keep gas plants as backup. That's possible. That's an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u49	I have a question. Why does Mrs Yesilgöz-Zegerius disqualify herself and her minister, a party colleague, so? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u50	It will not surprise Mr Moorlag that I do not understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u51	There's a VVD minister. It's been on the road for a year now with a climate agreement. It has gone on the road with a mission from the Chamber: an energy mix that does not contain nuclear energy. We talked here last week about the interim state of the climate agreement. Mrs Yesilgöz then had plenty of room to say: gosh, there's a white stain in that plan; I miss nuclear energy in it. How then is it that her group chairman, who apparently received something at the drink table last weekend in Breda, has suddenly been struck by a thunderbolt of wisdom and sends Mrs Yesilgöz and apparently also the Minister to develop nuclear energy in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u52	I think Mr Moorlag has missed a number of elements, but I would like to clarify it. No problem at all. The VVD has been asking from the start of the climate agreement whether there is enough room at the tables for innovations, from hydrogen, geothermal to nuclear energy. Last week we had a round table together. I have also made comments on nuclear energy. The same evening Mr Dijkhoff indeed had a whole debate on nuclear energy in Groningen. If we then look at the IPCC reports and see that nuclear energy is part of the energy mix in all the relevant models, then we think that we need to do something with it, and it is not surprising that we should draw attention to this during this debate. Mr Moorlag may or may not agree with the timing and place of the debate and whether it is taking place in an AO or in a plenary debate, but I think people at home would like to know if they can count on us when it comes to looking at the smartest methods that are taking our country the furthest. That's what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u53	Let's talk about the point of the smartest method. Apparently, the VVD has the smartness in rent, because I haven't seen any market parties that the VVD usually has a blind faith in, knocking on the door at the Ministry or in this Chamber building with the plea: boys, make a nuclear power plant in the Netherlands possible. I also know very well why they do not, because there is simply no business case to be made. Nuclear power is inflexible. It is not suitable as a backup system at all. There is no market party that believes in it. Following on from Mr Van der Lee, I wonder whether some kind of state liberalism is being preached here to bring about the construction of a nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u54	Mr Moorlag will be surprised, but the VVD is not only listening to entrepreneurs and businesses that are moving our country and our economy forward. We also like to listen to scientists. We very much like to listen to the facts they put on the table. In many studies, including those of the IPCC, which I know Mr Moorlag also considers important and has also studied, nuclear energy is part of a healthy energy mix. Then it is not so strange that we in our Parliament say: wait a minute, what is that really like in the Netherlands and what would that mean for our country? The reason why nuclear power stations are closing down or why they no longer see bread in them is because, in the long term, there is no political support because it is extremely guided by emotions. I would say: let us try to do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u55	Emotions aren't that decisive. You can say quite rationally of nuclear energy that the risk is not so great, that the risk of problems is not so great, but its consequences can be immense in a densely populated area. That is why the PvdA rejects nuclear energy in the energy mix. But it remains a mystery to me how it is possible that suddenly a kind of lightning bolt of wisdom entered the VVD between last week when we had the debate and this moment. Anyway, life is full of mysteries. Perhaps someday this will be explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u56	I am happy to go through all my contributions over the last eight months with Mr Moorlag. I can show that we have always talked about nuclear energy. I think it is very clear that Mr Moorlag states that this is not an option for the PvdA. All I am asking is for each other to show that this issue can be discussed at the tables. If one thinks that one can do something clever with it, then one must also be able to present it to us freely. I note that this is not the case at the moment. That's what the conversation's about now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u57	I'm hearing all this with a little surprise. Last night around 8:30, I got out of the car. In the short time I was in it, I heard that Mr Dijkhoff is going to talk about nuclear energy tonight. Fine, but my question is, did something new happen last night or not? I don't think so, but I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u58	In general or with Mr Dijkhoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u59	Just, did the VVD post anything new or is it something that it was in line with expectations that the VVD would come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u60	I think everyone in this Chamber and beyond knows that the VVD has never been an opponent of nuclear energy. So that's not new. We have been asking from the start of the climate agreement process: please, pay attention to this. What you see now is that the IPCC comes up with reports and says: in a healthy energy mix this is necessary. We then find, on the basis of reports from the parties sitting at those tables, that they do not even get that discussion going. Then it is quite logical that we as VVD say: but wait a minute, so you do not come to the smartest solutions, that has to be different. So that's what happened there. That is what Mr Dijkhoff said at a meeting last week. In this case, Nieuwsuur has indeed arrested it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u61	Clear. So I guess there's just nothing new under the sun. That's nice. Then there is the second point, which we shared here last time. I have also indicated this and will re-appoint it in my contribution. We always say: with sun and wind you're just not going to get there. Something extra is needed to ensure that we also have a reliable energy supply in the future. You're saying that's supposed to be nuclear? Or do you say: that's one of the options, it can also be aquathermia or geothermal, or make up a few more? Is it just one of the options to be reliable? Or do you say, in 2030, does that thing just have to be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u62	Reliability of the security of supply is the most important thing for the VVD. That's the point. The moment you really want these questions answered and then put everything together, you know what wisdom is. I hope that geothermal or hydrogen can serve as a large-scale back-up, but the results show us that if you do not want CO emissions, at the moment only nuclear energy seems to be an option. That is why we say: that seems to be a very important part of the smart energy mix.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u63	My last question goes a little further. I'm going to ask the Minister in my contribution to do a stress test, and then a little more than what TenneT is doing. I've been digging into that for the past few days. The question is: do we have a reliable energy supply in 2030 and 2050, with all the scenarios that exist, with nuclear power, without nuclear power, with sun, with wind, so on and so on? Do I have you by my side when I ask that question later and the Minister says: yes, but I still have to... Then do you support my motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u64	That's a lot of mistrust right away in one question. Let's see what the minister answers first. He's already looking forward to such a challenging question, so I'm confident you'll get a super-smart answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u65	That also helps to get the Minister to just say he's going to do the stress test right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u66	He doesn't need that from me, you know. He's got that freedom all the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u67	But if that's what you're saying, I think that's gonna help a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u68	Mrs Yeşilgöz and I share quite a lot. We hate drammers and we like the facts. We appreciate the IPCC report. The question I have is next. That's actually just one question. In the whole process of the climate tables, I know there are no taboos, except, for example, aviation, which should not be discussed. All forms of energy were allowed on the table. It is also no secret that you are quite into this energy form, or at least want to investigate it. Well, nothing came out of that as a recommendation in the sense of: this is what we have to do. Isn't it much the case that Mrs Yeşilgöz here is actually the drammer who throws up a test balloon, actually in panic, because perhaps there are very unpleasant other choices to be made? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u69	Mr Van Raan began so kindly. I thought, "Well, it's gonna be a nice conversation." But then again, I didn't. That's too bad. No, all I ask here is the responsibility we have been given by Dutch people to come back with a smart energy mix. The point is that people know that we have done the most cost-effective thing and that they also know that they are not in the dark. I don't know if you're a Feyenoord supporter, but I don't think it was a fun day. That's what it's all about: that we get it right. That's what the VVD is requesting right now. I don't really understand the need to close that conversation. Let's just see if we can do it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u70	A few observations. Mrs Yeşilgöz says: you have to be smart and the energy mix is important. Mrs Yeşilgöz says that we have raised nuclear power and nuclear power before. She knows that the major parties do not want to build nuclear power plants. If you're smart, so she wants to appear, I guess you would have written that in your party program two years ago? Then you write that in an election program and then you try to get the coalition members along, like the dividend tax, with a melon, potato or tomato or whatever they have to swallow? A smart VVD would have started this two years ago, given the energy mix, instead of just last night with another Dijkhoff balloon? What do you think, Mrs Yeşilgöz?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u71	I would advise Mr Öztürk to read through our election programme. But I am so curious: what is his alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u72	I think I'll have my input around 12:30 tonight. Then questions can be asked. But I just asked a serious question here. You did not mention this in the election campaign. I did not see Mr Rutte talking about nuclear power stations, nor did I see him talking about dividend taxation. Now you're coming with me. Your group leader came up with a Dijkhoff balloon last night. A month ago, that balloon was about extra punishment in the neighborhoods and now it's about a nuclear power plant. This kind of test balloons costs the Netherlands a lot of time and energy; we have been talking about a test balloon by Dijkhoff for half an hour. When does the VVD stop doing this? If you know that you have no support for the coalition, if you know that the minister doesn't really want to, if you know that companies don't want to pay and if you don't have a proposal to pay from the state treasury, then what are we doing here? Why are we not discussing the issues we should be discussing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u73	I also ask you to speak through the President. The questions are addressed to Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u74	The reason I asked Mr Öztürk what his options were is that I have never seen him in a climate debate. Or maybe once, when he said we should just keep drilling in Groningen. Those are options, but I can tell Mr Öztürk that this is really a very important subject and that Dutch people are wondering every day what they are going to do in The Hague. They are concerned about the future of their children and their grandchildren, they want us to get it right with each other. That is what we are then debating, in this Chamber and in other rooms, but also in the country. For hours, to see what wisdom is. It is, of course, an option to make a few general statements here and to bring in the dividend tax, but that is incredibly unfair to the great concerns people have about our planet, the future and how we are going to pay all these measures together. That is why it is extremely important that we invest together in a smart energy mix. However, if Mr Öztürk comes a little more often, he can participate in those debates. Maybe he also has some good ideas on how to arrange that backup. But when I say this, I remember again: that idea is born in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u75	If Mrs Yeşilgöz is having a hard time, she makes it personal. That's what they're gonna reason for: you're gonna have to come to the meeting a little bit more. There are three of us MPs! In the polls we are at seven and we will therefore attend even more meetings if the voter gives us that support. Let's be clear about that. But you didn't answer my question because you know this is a test balloon. If you're so smart, want to look smart, why didn't you share this with the voters before the election? Why did you not say in all these debates that we want a nuclear power plant? Why didn't Mrs Dilan Yeşilgöz say, with Mr Rutte, "if you vote for us, we'll build a nuclear power plant in your neighborhood. We want to make sure you're in danger"? All because of that beautiful, beautiful hallelujah story you just kept. Why is it always put up as a test balloon by Mr Dijkhoff one night? These kind of test balloons only cost the Netherlands time, money and misery. When does the VVD stop with test balloons, that's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u76	I think it's supposed to stick with the press "test balloon." The VVD has always made it very clear that it does not oppose nuclear power plants. We have often mentioned thorium, even in campaign time. These are matters that make colleagues behind Mr Öztürk nervous. That is what they have told us in debates. And we have said again: you must not rule out anything, as far as we are concerned there are no taboos. So we've always been honest about that, all VVDs who think it's an interesting subject have been able to follow it all and know it. Mr Öztürk really does not have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u77	In conclusion. Mr Sienot's question was quite clear: where are these nuclear power stations supposed to be? The VVD didn't have an answer to that. Well, that's right: you can't build a test balloon anywhere, it's somewhere in the air. I hope this will enable us to conclude this discussion. I also hope that the Minister will come up with a sensible opinion, just like the opinion on Mr Dijkhoff when it came to harsher penalties in the neighbourhoods, and that we can close the discussion with this. And yes, I see that, unfortunately, Mrs Yeşilgöz, as spokesman for climate change, has to do the dirty work of her group chairman again. I regret that for a spokesperson who has just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u78	I don't hear a question. I can't help but feel sorry for you. I'll just take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u79	What I would like to know is when the plant or those plants will be there and if the VVD thinks it should count for the target of reduction by 2030, which is minus 49%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u80	That is a very good question from Mrs Mulder, because there are different calculations. There are researchers who say that you could have realized that before 2030, so that can count. There are researchers who say, "No, you can't." Those are really things I would have liked to have picked out, just looking at the facts: what is feasible in our energy mix and what would be wisdom? As far as I am concerned, we need to deal with this energy mix, this whole energy transition, responsibly as quickly as possible. We share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u81	The CDA also represents an energy mix. We have put this forward in all the debates in recent years. However, as CDA, we have not said that this must also be done with additional nuclear energy for the purpose of 2030. I heard Mr Dijkhoff say that yesterday. I would like to know from Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius whether it really is and whether there should be an extra effort next to Borssele at the moment. If that extra commitment was always the VVD's commitment to those climate tables, why wasn't that given at an earlier stage? I'll ask myself that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u82	In my opinion, two weeks ago, the new IPCC report came out, which also said that nuclear energy is something that cannot be missed in an energy mix. That is what we are saying: if you want to settle this properly for the Netherlands, if you look at science, at international research and at what is happening in our neighbouring countries, please let us learn from that, then it is very strange to pretend as the Netherlands that this whole discussion does not exist. Then let's just see if this is a passable road or not and not just close that door.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u83	Then how does the VVD look at the costs? We have seen in recent years that Borssele has been rather difficult, with a number of years of loss. Then it's gonna be a tough case. Colleagues said it here, too. If that were to count for 2030, I can actually hear Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius say so here, and it should already be included in the 49% CO reduction in the 2030 mix. What would the VVD have to pay for this by 2030? Those power stations are just too expensive to build right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u84	Of course, we as a government are currently investing a lot of money in subsidies to stimulate innovation. We should look together at what additional nuclear power plant would then be possible and desirable. What would really contribute to such an energy mix and what costs would be included next? There too, we see a lot of differences between researchers. Some researchers say it depends on the size, on what you want with it and on the safety aspects. I'd love to have that conversation with each other to see what's possible. Of course, we are now investing a lot in all kinds of innovative things to achieve our goals. The IPCC says you're not gonna meet those Paris climate targets without nuclear power. I think that's worth investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u85	You will continue your speech. No, I didn't. Mr Kops has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u86	Mrs Yeşilgöz is clearly in favour of the construction of new nuclear power plants. Well, it's beautiful. But how does it see this in practice, since at least two of its own coalition parties, the Christian Union and D66, are strongly opposed to it? How is she going to do that in practice? Is it really going to happen, and if so, when? Or is it just fine words?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u87	There will soon be a debate on nuclear energy. I hope that all the spokesmen there will get to work on the facts. To be honest, I am convinced that we can convince each other and that D66 and the Christian Union also think: well, that is a sensible plan. I'm just assuming that's what I'm gonna do. I know my colleagues as well-thinking people. Then we'll see what we come up with. That debate will come and I hope that it will be conducted purely on the basis of facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u88	Then again, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u89	Thank you. I cannot, of course, stand here and talk about the budget without thinking about Groningen. We will soon be discussing the damage and reinforcements in Groningen. I have a lot to say about that, but I have decided to keep it for that debate. I would now like to focus on three areas where I actually have three questions for the Minister, once again with the remark that we will soon be discussing Groningen in detail. The first is that 1.15 billion extra has been made available for the future perspective in Groningen. That was a few weeks ago. So that is short notice, but I would very much like to know from the Minister what the state of affairs is and what progress has already been made. I repeat that the VVD sincerely hopes that the money will reach Groningers itself as soon and as well as possible, so that they can build their province, their surroundings, and move on with their lives. So that 1.15 billion. My second question is a rather specific one, which I will also mention in the next debate, which concerns a motion that I tabled earlier with the support of colleagues. I would very much like Groningers to be much more involved in their own home and in what happens with it. We have all spoken a lot of Groningers and they all say almost the same: someone comes and tells me what to do, it seems like it's not about me and about my house and I want to be involved. I was wondering if the Minister could go into that now. Have steps been taken to involve people well in everything that is left and not just to involve them, but to give them control? Mr. Chairman. My third question for now concerns the reinforcement plan of the NCG, the National Coordinator Groningen. That was recently presented. I think we should read it all very carefully, but I think it is so important that it is there that I would like to ask the Minister to briefly reflect on what the state of affairs is, what is in it and what we think of it. Mr. Chairman. I will be happy to keep my very long list of all the other questions that Groninger has left for another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u90	Thank you for your contribution. We are now going to listen to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week we talked about the importance of a good climate agreement. There is a huge amount at stake for the Netherlands as a vulnerable delta. Moreover, we have a great responsibility for a small country. The historical CO emissions of the Netherlands, which were previously industrialised, are cumulatively comparable to those of countries such as Indonesia or Brazil, which have a few hundred million inhabitants. The Netherlands is both a competitor and a potential victim of climate change. An ambitious climate policy is therefore inevitable, both from the point of view of debt and from the point of view of personal preservation. Does the Minister share that analysis? Last year, the Minister returned his mission to one word: tonne-hunting. This self-appointed CO hunter wanted to eliminate as many tonnes of CO as possible with maximum effectiveness per euro, so as cheaply as possible. Today we are considering whether there is progress in the tonne-hunt and it hurts me to say it, but there is actually no such eager progress. Those who look purely at the tonnes of CO see that the emissions in 2017 were 193 megatons, only 1% lower than in 2016 and only 13% lower than in 1990, whereas in less than two years, by 2020, we should have been 25% lower. The effect of current climate policy is merely to compensate for additional emissions resulting from economic growth. In fact, therefore, there is simply an enormous stagnation in the tonne-hunt. Does the Minister recognize that? And does he not regret his short-term choices that perpetuate this stagnation? I am referring to the fact that much smaller sustainability projects are often blocked by uncertainty as a result of interventions by this cabinet. I mention the uncertainty about netting arrangements, about the postcode rose scheme. I refer to a containment of small solar PV and wind projects in the SDE. They have prevented good citizens and businesses from moving to renewable energy. Also some geothermal projects beach on a lax government. And every week I'm approached by people who want to take an initiative but don't dare to take it. The firm promise of Minister Kamp, also a VVD'er, to continue the netting arrangement until 2023, has been deliberately broken. The replacement and still cloaked return subsidy has been postponed for another year. Uncertainty is a trump card. Recently I was at AWT, builder of medium turbines. That is a fine undertaking, I say to Mr Wörsdörfer, whom I congratulate on his maiden speech. This beautiful company is one of the carriers of the so-called 'neighborhood mill' projects, but does not get any project off the ground anymore because the postcode rose scheme is at stake. With the uncertainty created by the cabinet, the view of a profitable business case disappears and projects end up in a deep drawer. With relatively small interventions, there is quickly something to do to break the stagnation in the CO reduction. I have worked out six concrete examples in a short note. I will hand it over to everyone at the end of my speech through the President. And I call on the Minister to take action quickly. This is good for support and helps citizens, vve's and businesses save many tons of COte. Of course, a successful climate agreement, which will only work from 2020 and which will actually complete our energy transition, is crucial. But it does not relieve the Minister of the duty to save much more tons of COte during this cabinet period, especially now that the judge has also ruled on appeal that a 25% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 should really be achieved. Doesn't the Minister think an emergency reduction plan is inevitable? Last week we spoke briefly about this. The Planning Office for the Environment publicly indicates that we are not going to make it to 25%. Bureau Kalavasta reported at the recent hearing that we are only going to reach a 15% reduction by 2020. So we cannot escape the early closure of coal power stations. Last week, my group chairman spoke about the amendment I tabled to clear the budget for the immediate closure of the Hemwegcentrale and the Amercentrale. The Minister needs to see this as a back-up. And no doubt he will come to the conclusion in January that power stations must be shut down. So it is good to put aside a game before that. So I would like to hear a response to that amendment. In his written reply, and later in the debate, the Minister acknowledged that the closure of the Hemweg would be seen if the emission figures turned out to be disappointing. And we already know they're disappointing, so that closure just comes along; that's what I'm assuming. But how is he gonna shut down the plant? Another alternative is to bring forward the law prohibiting the production of electricity from coal. But he can't declare that law applicable to a single plant. So can he explain how he's gonna do that, other than buying out a power plant? And what else is there in his plan B if the closure of two plants is not enough to bring about a 25% reduction? Does he embrace the Jetten plan to lower speed limits? Or does he want to give an opinion on another proposal I'm making to him? It doesn't cost the government money, although she can do her best herself, but asks for a standard. Mandatory for all companies to switch to LED lighting by 1 July 2020. This soon saves almost 1 megaton of CO, is very cost-effective, saves energy and also provides the companies with money, because they have lower energy costs. And it's feasible in the short term. I have another suggestion, which also saves a lot of energy and emissions. In consultation with BZK, the Minister can examine whether we can introduce a duty for all citizens and businesses to ensure that every year heating installations are properly and preferably water-sided. A commitment was made to include this on the list in the context of the enforcement of the Environmental Management Act, but there is still no water-side regulation on that list. How is that possible? I'd like a response from the Minister. I see that Mrs Yeşilgöz wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u92	That is what I was going to say: there is a question for you from Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u93	Back to those LED lights for a second. That went very fast and suddenly I thought: hey, this just sounds like a good idea from GroenLinks. Then it's gonna take me a while to realize that, get up and come here. If I am correct, the proposal was: LED lamps for companies. I don't think it's a crazy proposal at all, honestly. I was wondering whether Mr Van der Lee would like to extend that, for example, by looking at whether it is led on all the national and municipal roads and billboards, and whether we could perhaps hang out there together, because I do not think it is so strange at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u94	I am very much in favour of that. We could also do this in the context of sustainable shopping. I welcome that support. If we do it for both of us, we're gonna save a lot. And while we are talking about sustainable shopping, there's actually 5 megatons of CO to be brought up if we do that much more wisely. So let's work together on this; I think it's fantastic. I also hope the Minister will hear that you think this is a good idea and that Thursday is embracing thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder thunder
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u95	Yeah, I think it's a good idea. It would be nice if we could look together and look at business as well, for which I also think it is a good idea, and what effect it will have on large companies and small companies, how much it will cost, whether they can carry it, and how to introduce it smartly. But I think it's an interesting idea and I'm curious about the Minister's answer. If there's room to hang out in there, I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u96	Mrs Yeşilgöz knows me as very constructive, so where we agree on the content, we can work very well together. On other points, it's a little less effective. I think I'll say something about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u97	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u98	Yes. Without additional efforts, we will not only miss the Urgenda target, but also the share of renewable energy in the energy agreement. The Minister has deployed the so-called doubler towards the provinces when it comes to wind on land. GroenLinks thought that was a good idea, but why do we not also explain that to the government itself? Will the Minister say that every percentage point of renewable energy that he lacks in 2023 will be doubled in the following years, on top of the new climate agreement agreements? If you ask the provinces, isn't it crazy to do it yourself? The SDE is crucial for renewable energy growth. It is not to be digested that for billions of dollars there is underexhaustment in this. In particular, energy cooperatives seem to be missing the boat, while every citizen's initiative needs to be explained by the red carpet. If the Minister remains in his refusal to adjust basic amounts, can he not give room by accepting provisional permits for projects as well? More importantly, does he want to quickly implement an additional SDE scheme for small to medium-sized turbines? As I said, the Minister is a self-appointed tonne hunter, who wants to put CO reduction as a result in everything. So I am not going to repeat last week's debate, but I would like to go down in depth on one point. In my view, there is consensus between civil society actors and also the initiators of the Climate Act that electrification is crucial to achieving our climate goals. We want fully CO-neutral electricity generation by 2050. In order to achieve this, we need to encourage wind and sunshine, but we also need to make it clear in good time how renewable electricity demand is developing in industry, mobility and the built-up environment. I have two questions about that. How can the electricity table come to hard plans and calculating instrumentation if the industrial table, the mobility table and the built-up environment table have not completed this first? And two: even if there is later, there is uncertainty as to whether renewable electricity demand is actually going to develop in practice. If the decision is taken to stop the SDE for wind at sea in 2025, then there is still a question. As a precautionary measure, therefore, the sector and experts are calling for an option to include the so-called "contract for difference" in the new wind energy Act. I don't understand why the Minister is resisting this. He doesn't have to make a definite choice, but when the need comes, he has an effective instrument behind his hands. He doesn't want big projects with wind at sea to fall silent, does he? Speaking of the wind energy Act, can he not wait until the plans and agreement on the climate are really completed? After all, we are going to have another law that we will have to amend immediately because new ideas have been added. Finally, a comment on the learning curve that the Minister is going through in climate policy. Last year he put the result and thus the tonne-hunt first. Last week, he suddenly said that it's technically no art at all to get those tons. Put two engineers and an economist together and you'll be out in a week. But what is difficult is to get the barrels and keep the Dutch on board and ensure that everyone participates and can participate. So the Minister has actually learned one lesson in the past year. A lesson that Jack Dixon, historian and connoisseur of major social change processes summarizes as follows: "If you focus on results, you will not change anything. If you focus on change, you will see results." Do you want me to repeat it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u99	That won't be necessary. In the meantime, Mrs Mulder has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u100	Does this also apply to the Green Left Party in relation to nuclear energy? Is GroenLinks open to this as an opportunity to achieve relatively CO-neutral, perhaps CO-reducing, results?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u101	I would like to make a number of arguments. What is said about the IPCC report is factually incorrect. The IPCC report looks at at least 90 scenarios, at possible energy mixes that the world can choose. Many of these scenarios include nuclear energy, because, as I said before, almost 2% of global energy production is nuclear energy. These scenarios all show different percentages for nuclear energy in the future. The IPCC does not make any substantive recommendation on what the energy mix should look like in the future. That leaves it to politicians. We have to make the choices. If I look at nuclear energy and the facts, apart from the safety issue that can be dealt with at very high costs, I can see that at the moment there is no future for nuclear energy in the Netherlands, because that is what we are talking about. That is because the main producers do not see any bread in it at all. And we're in a hurry. We're in a terrible hurry. There is no point in reopening that discussion at that table. He really played there, very briefly, but quite rightly all parties note that it is not a contribution to the solution for the Netherlands in the short term. So I don't have a taboo on nuclear energy at all. I would like to discuss it, I would like to join the debate next time, but it does not solve the problem we are facing. We have to be on 25% reduction within two years. By 2030 at 49% reduction. The average construction time of a power plant in the world right now is thirteen years. It's just not an answer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u102	I note that Mr Van der Lee very often uses the words 'at the moment'. This gives a perspective that in the future GroenLinks is also willing to change at the moment necessary for the energy mix of the future. I hope that this change applies not only to the other parties in the Chamber, but also to GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u103	With us, the mind doesn't stop either. However, I would like to point out that our goal is a sustainable, renewable energy future. Then you have a problem with nuclear energy, because I mentioned it for a while already, and its stock is very limited, especially of winable uranium that you can get from the ground somewhere through a mine at a somewhat decent price. So I simply do not believe that nuclear energy can make a very good contribution for the distant future. But then again, thinking doesn't matter to us either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u104	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u105	Where was I? Oh, yeah, I was with the minister. I had a nice quote, but I can't repeat it. But he heard him very well and understood him very well. I hope he will now take this lesson to heart and use all his persuasiveness to make the polluter pay and to create support for the transition. Crucial in this process of change is the pricing of CO. That is the most elegant, honest and effective instrument available, and fortunately now also embraced by De Nederlandsche Bank. It tackles climate change at its root, causes pain where it should be, gives the best incentive for innovation, is much fairer and prevents complex regulatory pressure. In addition, there is room for this, because the decades away from large consumers in the Netherlands, which many of the current coalition parties have also chosen, have given them an unfair competitive advantage. I dare say that a successful climate policy and the title "greenest cabinet ever" are either or fall into question if this cabinet dares to introduce a national CO2 tax at the top of the ETS. The important lesson about change in acceptance should also apply to Groningen, damage handling, reinforcement operations, village renewals and new perspective. We will soon discuss these issues separately again. In practice, the changes in damage handling, reinforcement and closure of the gas tap ordered by the Minister must prove that they are genuine improvements. So quickly and generously pay out, the most unsafe houses now quickly and effectively strengthen or replace by good new construction, and reduce gas extraction quickly and in substantial steps. That is why I ask how hard the commitments of the big companies are to step away from Groninger gas. How right are their complaints that the Ministry doesn't give at home when they come up with questions or demand clear rules? I also have a question about future security of gas supply. Is additional policies necessary, for example, to secure long-term contracts with Norway to secure the necessary gas imports for the future? And where is an executable gas switch-off plan, which my group has often asked for? All points to the fact that the NAM has done far from generously the damage handling of old cases. People often seem to have accepted a sloppy offer from the NAM out of desperation. There are no figures on this, however, whereas the Minister had promised to investigate that group. That is why I have proposed to the committee that it be investigated as a chamber itself. If this shows that the bid is often not satisfied, is the Minister prepared to take action? Our minister is a ton hunter, but we live in a world in which world powers hunt knowledge. Our highly open competitive and innovative knowledge-based economy is the economy with the highest digital interconnectivity. It is also one of the most vulnerable to corporate espionage, hostile takeovers and cyber attacks. We are big game, especially for the Chinese, for their security services and state-owned companies. The Netherlands is super naive when it comes to China. This cabinet is only aware of the economic opportunities, especially now that the country is announcing a reduction in its import tariffs, but it has little regard for the risks here. China follows, assesses and sanctions all the actions of its citizens with the latest technology. Just as much energy it devotes to the unlawful appropriation of the latest knowledge about, for example, nanotechnology, quantum mechanics or photonics. I call on the Minister and Secretary of State to make a separate analysis of all the activities that China conducts in the Netherlands, both legal activities, such as investing in or taking over companies, as well as illegal activities, from corporate espionage to hacking digital systems. The Chinese state has a completely different view of private property and privacy. Avoid the Netherlands and its knowledge becoming China's next prey. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned the Secretary of State during the budget debate last year a bit of a crazy 'Alice in Digital Wonderland'. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Nu kan ik niet anders dan constateren dat zij zich dit jaar heel hard heeft ingespannen voor een digitale strategie op rijksniveau.]] Compliments for that, but paper is patient and coordination is not self-evident. Can I ask her again whether a digital sub-committee could not provide better assurance for an integrated approach to this digital strategy? Finally, the well-known demand for 5G. Does this Alice lead us out of the rabbit hole when it comes to the Burum satellite ground station? Is there really a solution in sight and before Christmas the Chamber will get so much clarity? Finally, I would like to say that a party that is self-absorbed with the mileage tax, a reduction in livestock and the opening-up of the MIRT should not complain about a so-called taboo on nuclear energy. There's no such thing as a taboo. We talk about it a lot. I hope that the Minister will explain again why nuclear energy is not a very sensible option for our energy mix and the huge challenge of reducing CO emissions in the Netherlands at the moment towards 2020, 2030 and 2050. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u106	Thank you for your contribution. Then it's up to the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u107	Mr President, I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u108	Oh, excuse me. You're not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u109	I have a copy for the minister and for all members. I thought I'd give it to the messengers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u110	Thank you very much. The messenger will distribute your documents to the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u111	Thank you again for your contribution. We are now going to listen to the CDA group, with Mr Amhaouch as the first speaker, and then Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After such a debate on nuclear energy, you get energy to get to the core, but in the field of Economic Affairs. Mr. Chairman. I will start by mentioning the announced burden relief for SMEs through, among other things, low corporate taxes and employers' burdens, the SME Action Plan, a policy programme for better regulation and services, the Dutch Digitalisation Strategy, the Digital Connectivity Action Plan, the new mission-driven top sectors approach, the Action Agenda Better Contractors, a Consumer Agenda and a Brainport National Agenda for Action: this is a selection of the projects that the Cabinet is working on and in which the CDA recognises itself. CDA targets, such as more emphasis on the broad SME peloton, fast internet and better mobile reach in the Netherlands, as well as a fair economy with a level playing field, are getting closer and closer. The themes of SMEs, fair economy and innovation will be at the heart of my input today. Mr. Chairman. The CDA pays particular attention to the beautiful SMEs that form an important foundation of our economy. The State of SMEs shows that in 2017, SMEs accounted for over 80% of employment growth in business and for over 62% of added value. SMEs are an important investor in local society through strong regional representation, as they are often the sponsors, for example, of local sports clubs. The CDA is very contented with the Secretary of State EZK, who is committed to SMEs, and is proud to see the CDA sound in the implementation of the policy. For example, there is the SME Action Plan with the seven policies, in which the Cabinet makes additional funds of no less than 200 million up to 2021 available and emphasises, inter alia, the SME platoon, the SME test and the setting of SMEs as standards. I cannot repeat it often enough: SMEs as a standard in the implementation and organisation of our institutions and instruments. In addition, there is a fine programme, the acceleration agenda for the digitisation of SMEs, to promote promising regional initiatives in broad SMEs. The CDA notes, however, that figures from the CBS show that the number of newly created SMEs has declined significantly over the past decade, both in the categories of 2 to 10, 10 to 50 and 50 to 250 employees. That concerns the CDA towards the future. Would the Secretary of State like to reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. Then innovation. For the coming financial year, the biggest challenge for the Dutch economy is to find a new way of growth in relation to the threat of staff shortages and the transition to a digital and sustainable economy. This is evident from the State of SMEs. In what way will the Secretary of State undertake to accelerate the adaptation process of SMEs in order to increase productivity growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u113	The CDA is making a warm plea here for small and medium-sized enterprises. Many parties here can share that with the CDA. However, the CDA has also been defending, for example, the abolition of the dividend tax. When that went off the table, there was an opportunity to use the resources that were made available to SMEs as well. We see, for example, that in the case of a well-functioning instrument, such as the Research and Development Promotion Act, the amount released for the reduction of contributions for research workers, because the abolition of dividend taxation does not go ahead, is entirely beneficial to the larger companies. Doesn't the CDA think that's crazy? Should the smaller companies not benefit from the funds released so that they too can invest in research?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u114	If Mr Alkaya had paid attention during last year's debate and during the AO's, he would have known that we have already repaired the Wbso for small and medium-sized enterprises. The first rate had already been corrected, as it was initially cut back. For large companies, the percentage has indeed been reduced from 16% to 14% in the past. What do we have when we look at the location climate? I believe that Mr Alkaya is also committed to ensuring adequate employment and job creation. It is also about creating jobs at the front because we have a good locational environment. You shouldn't start grumbling when the jobs leave companies. Let's also invest in the Wbso for the big business. In my opinion, it was Mr Wörsdörfer who said that large businesses and SMEs belong together and that ecosystem also works together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u115	That's where it goes wrong. The interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises are not the same. The latest evaluation of the Wbso scheme shows that large companies are not at all inclined to invest more in innovation with such a fiscal gift. Small businesses are willing to do so. I can also imagine anything. They need all the help they can get. They can use them to hire more research personnel. At the same time, the CDA says that there has been a repair for SMEs and not for large businesses. This does not alter the fact that it could have been chosen to use the EUR 76 million released for small and medium-sized enterprises and not for large businesses, where it would have no added value at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u116	If you say that the second rate of the Wbso for the large company has no added value, we know that 60% of the R&D statement comes mainly from the large company. You really miss the point. That does not mean, as I have just mentioned, that we are making 200 million extra available to SMEs. I also refer to the MIT scheme. I checked the numbers. Compared to 2013, the number of companies using the MIT scheme for SME innovation has doubled. So we're making instruments. The Wbso is one, we have the innovation credit, we have the pps construction. There are several instruments that benefit both large businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises. I think we make a caricature of it when it is said that we do nothing for SMEs. I have just said the same thing in my introduction to the CDA and the cabinet is working hard for SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u117	Finally. I did not say that the large company has no added value in research and development work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u118	Then I heard you wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u119	I say from the previous evaluation that an additional fiscal incentive to hire research staff at large companies will not lead to the actual hiring of more staff. They simply don't need it. This 2% extra you know, 14% or 16% you know, doesn't matter to many large companies, whereas it does matter to small companies. Then Mr Amhaouch can all mention other measures for SMEs, but that does not mean that there is just another 76 million present here to the large business, which it has not even asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u120	Soon I will return to R&D expenditure in the Netherlands. I think we can go further in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u121	During this budget, the CDA always keeps a fantastic story about SMEs and that it supports them all and so on. Last year there was the same story; I remember that well. I asked: how can it be that you keep such a good story for SMEs while the big money, EUR 1.9 billion a year of dividend tax, goes to three companies? Then Mr. Amhaouch came up with the story that it also went to VDL and to ASML, where he once worked. But it wasn't. Now he's keeping another story, but he's missing one key point: what about the financing of these companies? What is the financing climate, the credit climate in the Netherlands? Is that perhaps a reason why a number of companies are no longer being set up and why companies are also stopping in the Netherlands? That is the question you have also asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u122	One thing I share: we need to worry about if the number of newly created companies is to be reduced. That is why I am also asking the Secretary of State. In the AO Enterprise and finance, in which Mr Öztürk was not present, I specifically addressed the issue of funding. I asked the Secretary of State to give us insight. On the one hand, you are right to say to the banks that there is no problem with funding, while on the other hand, we hear every time we talk about the problem of financing. In the first quarter of 2019 we will return to it. I have a commitment on this from the Secretary of State. I hope you will also be here, because funding is one of the important items.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u123	I hear "you are not present at the AO" and "I asked a question" and "in 2019 we get an answer." Entrepreneurs want credit, and not now, but for six years! Have you ever seen the numbers? When it comes to lending, we have once been worse off than Greece, the worst in Europe. That's where we've been for years. Your cabinet has been working on it for a year and a half and you come up with the story: "In the AO where Mr Öztürk was not present, I asked and I get an answer in 2019.' No, when you talk to entrepreneurs, they say the big companies get the big money and we get nothing. This is also the case in this CDA cabinet. What are you going to do in concrete terms? Deeds, Mr Amhaouch, and not beautiful stories of "SMEs is a job engine" and "we stand behind you." No, what action have you taken over the last year and a half to help that entrepreneur get a credit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u124	There have been several initiatives for small entrepreneurs, when we talk about credits or banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u125	Peanuts!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u126	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u127	Mr Amhaouch has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u128	I would not deny that Mr Öztürk has a point here. We in the Chamber, and I believe that there are several parties here, must pay attention to the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. Solutions will have to be found for companies that want to borrow 5 tonnes up to a million. We have postponed this question last time, and we do want a solution to that. That's a problem. I'm not denying that there's a problem. So you have a point. You can put it in your pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u129	Mr Öztürk, your seventh question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u130	Entrepreneurs go bankrupt. Entrepreneurs can't grow. Entrepreneurs can't start. Then the CDA says, "Wait a minute. Next year, you might get an answer." No, banks need to be dealt with. That's what DENK has been saying for four years. Banks are now on the move. We saved the banks with community money, with citizens' taxpayers' money. And what do they do? They don't take responsibility. Does Mr Amhaouch, does Mr Amhaouch have the guts, the balls, to steer this minister towards the banks and say: now you must stand up for those SMEs, because we need those SMEs for the jobs in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u131	Of course, the banks have an obligation to do so. They will have to come to terms with it. Where it is not possible, we will have to look for other solutions. I just talked about Invest-NL in the VAO. Invest-NL should be accessible to SMEs. It is a new instrument, where start-ups should also be able to get growth capital. This is an instrument that this cabinet is going to organise to meet those SMEs. Then Mr Öztürk can say "okay, we're gonna solve everything today," but that's not gonna happen. He can say "we're pulling the benches over the table," but that's not gonna happen either. That's not gonna happen. But we will see how we can help SMEs with a bit of funding. That is one of the seven policy points in the overall package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u132	Let me take a look at Mr Öztürk. We have agreed eight questions per group. This would be your last. It's up to you to put it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u133	I have another party to take care of, so I'll keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u134	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u135	I'm sorry to hear that. If you really have a substantive question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u136	Then there is another question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u137	It is perhaps more a suggestion for Mr Amhaouch, because I think we are both concerned about the same thing. We see for the umpteenth year in a row that the number of loans to companies under EUR 1 million has decreased. There are too few loans from the banks. Now it is true that we also have a Volksbank at the moment. That Volksbank also wants to continue to play a public role. It could also be a solution here. Would Mr Amhaouch, with the GroenLinks Group and through the Minister for Economic Affairs, also like to call on the Minister of Finance to consider keeping the Volksbank in public hands and asking him to focus on providing small loans to fantastic SMEs in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u138	I think that was one of the questions raised by the CDA: what role can the People's Bank, which is actually still in the hands of the State, play in this? I would very much like to investigate that further. But whether we should only hold the Volksbank in our own hands as a state bank, or whether we can do so when it is privatised, I will leave that in the middle. The Volksbank could be a solution, but I do not know what the obstacles are. That question's been deported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u139	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u140	In what way does the Cabinet commit itself to timely retraining, retraining and retraining, so that more qualified staff become available? And what about the broad dissemination of knowledge to SMEs by TO2 institutions through the MIT scheme? The CDA is pleased that the Ministry of Economic Affairs keeps the PPS bonus on the now increased 30% rate. However, there is a discount on the basis of the PPS surcharge. We think it is right to accept this before 2019 and we are therefore working on an amendment, even if it is only a piece of correction. We also agree that the Wbso should be increased to 16% by 2020. Of course, we all benefit from that. The CDA feels something for this already in 2019. The CDA is interested in the productivity growth of SMEs in order to see whether process innovation can be included in the Wbso as in the past. The CDA also welcomes the R&D roadmap, which discusses possible policies that can contribute to a strategy of high R&D investment in the Netherlands, with the ambition to achieve the level of 2.5% of GDP, while the European target is even 3%. When will the target of 2.5% be achieved? What follow-up steps will be taken and how will the field discuss how the policies can be further defined and quantified? We have those five lines now. We would very much like this to be taken into account. If we turn those five buttons, when are we going to be at 2.5%? I would like to give you a regional view of this as well. I recently read in information that came to me, that for example the Brainport region is already at 2.8%. Of course, that is not possible in every region in the Netherlands, but you could see what we can learn from each other to get to that 2.5% together. Mr President, I come to ethnic entrepreneurship. There are also many ethnic entrepreneurs in the SME platoon. That's good to see. In the past, research has shown that the average value added of ethnic entrepreneurs was lower than that of native entrepreneurs. This was partly due to the fact that this group mainly participated in sectors where the survival of companies in the early business phase was lower, they operated more frequently in socially and economically weaker neighbourhoods and made less use of formal business networks. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine with interested parties whether the differences and signals of the past, such as the recommendations of the 1998 ESC report, still exist and how this group can make it easier to move to new ways of growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u141	There is a question for you from Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u142	What is an ethnic entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u143	You can see that ethnic entrepreneurs or immigrant entrepreneurs or people of non-Western descent...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u144	What do you mean only immigrants have ethnicity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u145	Mr Amhaouch has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u146	I was answering, Mr. Baudet. You asked me a question, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u147	But your answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u148	Mr Amhaouch has the floor. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u149	Those are entrepreneurs who want to participate and participate. We're calling for extra attention to be paid to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u150	That's fine, but "ethnic"? What do you mean only immigrants have ethnicity? Either all people have ethnicity or you're just talking about individuals who may or may not come from somewhere else. What do you mean, only certain groups of people have ethnicity? What kind of identity politics is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u151	Now Mr Baudet has the floor. He's done now. Then Mr Amhaouch has the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u152	In this context, I would like to leave it to Mr Baudet to decide what name he wants to use: immigrant entrepreneurs, ethnic entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs with a non-Western background. I don't care. I am concerned about the essence, namely that people are trying to do something. They often do the same in certain neighbourhoods. They will grow in it. An ESC report has once shown that they are lagging behind in a number of cases. The question is whether the recommendations made at that time have been followed. Can we give the entrepreneurs a little more support, where necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u153	I think it is a very bad, discriminatory, people-in-a-box designation for people who come from all over the world. It's about where they want to go and what they want in their lives. To pin them on their ethnicity I find very worrying and resentful. That's going all the way in the wrong direction. That reeks of racism and so on. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u154	If Mr Baudet is in contact with those entrepreneurs and can talk to them about the content, rather than turning around in a big cloud, then he can come to the core, namely that those entrepreneurs are looking. Some entrepreneurs find their own way around certain networks and some entrepreneurs do not find them. They're calling attention to this. Those are people who try to do in the Netherlands with poached sleeves. It would be very good for Mr Baudet, who always puts a sticker on his forehead in a different context, to say here: okay, if those people are willing to take action in the Netherlands, they will also have the support of the Forum of Democracy and we will go against it together to say the Netherlands even better in the world, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u155	Madam President, the name of my party is Forum for Democracy and not Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u156	Mr Amhaouch continues his speech, I suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Baudet, if you don't mind, I'm going to go over ethnic entrepreneurship with the right context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u158	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u159	You continue your speech!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u160	They operate more often in socio-economically weaker neighbourhoods and make less use of them. I shall come back to the ESC report. At the time, recommendations were made in the ESC report. I think it is very good to see where these recommendations have been implemented and where they are still inadequate. Can we help these entrepreneurs? Then I come to protecting small businesses. So I am going back to the SMEs, because they are the foundation of this society. The CDA stands for a fair economy. At present, small entrepreneurs have up to ten employees less rights than a consumer, while in many cases they have no more knowledge or power than a consumer. For example, there is often insufficient protection in the case of misdirection in the conclusion of a subscription rate for small entrepreneurs. One cannot go to a supervisor like the ACM either. The Unfair Commercial Practices Act, which is monitored by the ACM, only deals with the relationship between business and consumers. Adaptation of formal rights alone is often insufficient. In addition, it is difficult for small entrepreneurs to get their rights due to lengthy procedures and the fact that they have a large party opposite them with deeper pockets. Moreover, smaller entrepreneurs are often afraid to sue. They fear the loss of an important client. For example, you can see that entrepreneurs hardly dare to go to court if a large company or government does not pay the legal commercial interest at a later date. Instead of bringing small businesses to justice for individual cases, public oversight can play a role by contributing to more collective protection against structural complaints about non-compliance by large companies and public authorities. For example, the public supervisor could start a conversation with many complaints. How does the Secretary of State view the protection of small entrepreneurs? Mr President, then there is unfair platform competition. The Financial Dagblad opened last week with the message that customs sighs under the explosive growth at web stores. More and more Dutch consumers buy products from abroad via web shops. In order to create a fair economy, the CDA considers it important to address unfair platform competition from countries such as China and America. Products on the European market must meet very high quality and safety requirements. Because consumers sometimes import these products themselves, without knowing that, they are not always subject to quality or safety controls. This brings more non-compliant or even dangerous products onto the European market. How does the Secretary of State view better enforcement of this? In the case of products coming from outside the EU, it is also unclear what the situation is with regard to liability. Who's responsible? Who is responsible for informing authorities and consumers if things go wrong? How does the Secretary of State intend to argue in the EU that third-country companies selling online products to consumers in Europe should be obliged to have a liability officer, who is responsible for conformity on European territory? Finally, I would like to ask when the legislation announced on vital sectors will now come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u161	Thank you for your contribution. Then Mrs Mulder will have the floor for the second half of the CDA playing time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u162	Mr. Chairman. What a stage this is! For the CDA, acceptance is essential for a successful climate policy. This means working together with residents on climate policy and on a realistic energy transition. Now I sometimes get the feeling that people are being pushed down the throat from above. If we do that, there is a threat of enormous resistance, and I understand that, too! In the peat colonies I have felt what happens when people are talked about and not with them, and when alternatives are not seriously investigated. The feeling of powerlessness and not being heard frustrates us as residents and thus also becomes a danger to the energy transition. That's made a lot of impression on me. The Minister, the provinces, the municipalities and we in the House of Representatives must ensure that support is given, and that is a heavy and important task, otherwise we ourselves will cause a rebellion against our own policies. This can also be done differently; by providing our residents, businesses and cooperatives with an eye-catching perspective and serious consideration of feasibility, affordability and portability. That has always been the CDA's commitment and I continue to criticize it. First of all, the feasibility. When we demand the impossible demands of our inhabitants and businesses, they quit and people become insecure. The slogan "off the gas" is counterproductive. Too many people think it's gonna make someone come by tomorrow and shut the place down. That's not the way we have to deal with households. We're gonna get off the Groningen gas as soon as possible, but we're gonna need gas for a while. As a CDA, we also see opportunities for green gas. Regions, provinces and municipalities are now working on a regional energy strategy and thermal visions and many of our inhabitants want to contribute to a better climate. The key question is: how are residents and companies involved? I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u163	There is indeed a question for you, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u164	The acceptance and willingness to change are also a major concern for the PvdA Group. It is true that a number of wind projects, in particular those under the state coordination scheme, have really taken the turn of the day. As a concrete example, Mrs Mulder mentioned the Windpark De Drentse Monden. Today it has become known that although the mission for this wind farm is 150 megawatts, the elastic is now stretched to 175 megawatts. Does Mrs Mulder share the view that it would be better to bring that back to 150 megawatts for the support base in that area, to the extent that it can be restored at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u165	That's where the PvdA finds the CDA all by her side. If you meet 150, it should eventually be 150, and then you shouldn't sit on 175.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u166	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u167	Sometimes I'm so obvious...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u168	So it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u169	Mr. Chairman. The same applies to plans for windmills; we were just talking about them. At the moment there seems to be a wind farm between Oss and Den Bosch. There too the process is not going well and the resistance is now great. This underlines the importance of looking together with villages and communities at what is possible and how they can benefit themselves. What conditions are we going to set for regional energy strategies? Residents and businesses should be able to rely on the government to support them, to be heard and to influence the plans. This requires framework conditions for residents and businesses to be able to address public authorities. What are the conditions for the regional energy strategy and the thermal visions? What kind of participation do the residents get? At the moment, these conditions are not real. Well, that's gonna have to change. How does the Minister view that? Does the Minister find inspiration in the programme Space for the River? As public authorities on the production side, we can create, stimulate or standardise conditions, and we can also introduce cross-compliance on the marketing side. The production side is discussed extensively at the tables, but the outlet side is still a bit behind and there the CDA also sees possibilities. I am thinking in particular of the steel industry. The European Union was created once by merging the coal and steel industries. How wonderful it would be if, in the light of our history, we could make European agreements on the positive promotion of greener steel! What a wonderful thing it is that we in the Netherlands have a company that also offers jobs to many families, namely Tata Steel, which has been working for years to reduce energy consumption and therefore CO. Can we also encourage companies that lead the way in Europe? The CDA wants the Minister to examine the possibilities for this and to give a positive opinion to his colleagues on the board. For example, certificates can be considered. For example, steel that is less green, from other continents, could be regulated by import levies. Is the Minister prepared to examine this idea further? How can the government pay more attention to this in its own procurement policy, not only in the case of steel but also in the case of other products? It just came up with Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks: get more out of that circular shopping, and make sure you can reduce even more. The CDA would like circular, low-CO2 purchases to get a big move in the back. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the energy transition must be affordable. With the storage of renewable energy, with which we invest in renewable energy, and the government agreement, the costs for households and SMEs increase. The government has an important role to play in informing residents in a timely manner. In this way, our residents can take this into account in their choices for investment in their homes, and they can also save for it. For example, public authorities and residents can strengthen each other, for example by saving energy through isolation measures. Fortunately, a motion from my hand on this matter was adopted earlier today. I hope the Minister will implement it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u170	I think Mrs. Beckerman wanted to wait for you to move on. Or isn't it, Mrs. Beckerman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u171	Well, I thought, I'm not gonna do that in the middle of a sentence, that's just so unsympathetic. So I'm just gonna wait and see. But I'd like to ask a question, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u172	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have seen a lot in the media recently that the CDA seems to be an ally of the SP when it comes to limiting the energy bill. A lot of households are getting into trouble because of the ever-increasing energy bill. Mr Buma said recently at EenVandaag: we should not impose any more charges if there is no prospect of adjusting your account. Now my question. This budget is contrary to what Mr Buma said, because this budget increases the burden on households by 800 million. We see a limitation of the duty-free foot. We see an increase in the energy tax for an average household in a property of €150. Do you remain our ally or do you opt for this budget? What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u174	Of course, we have agreed on the energy agreement before. I will ask the Minister later to evaluate that energy agreement so that we can see what we can learn from it. So measures have already been agreed. Moreover, the SP Group has also approved this. I have been working with all your predecessors since 2013. So there are increases, which we have already agreed on before. These include storage of renewable energy. Mrs Beckerman will know that too, so she shouldn't pretend she doesn't know anything about it. Then, in the coalition agreement, this cabinet said that we are going to take a number of measures. And yes, they hurt. Then we also said that we want to look together with the tables at how we can take other measures, in order to reach 49% CO reduction in 2030. So some of the measures have already increased this year. And what did my colleague Buma say? Our chief said: let's see if we can add a lot to these tables, by taking more measures in the standards and by doing less of everything through subsidies. Well, that seems to me to be a very sensible appeal from my colleague Buma. I noticed that also in the various debates with the SP, for example right after the summer, early September. We talked about it last week, and at other times. The SP also said at the time that it does not want that to go up unbridled. So, yeah, I think the SP and the CDA are gonna find each other on a big scale. Perhaps not yet in this budget, but certainly for future plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u175	I'm just chewing it up. So we will not find each other in this budget, but we will find each other in the future. So basically the CDA says: whatever we all say in the media about helping the low-income people, they can see an increase in the coming year. I would like to try again; I will continue to look for that alliance. Would you then, with us, at least not be prepared to apply that tax-free rate reduction for the energy bill, which causes a lot of households to see their energy bills rise, to ensure that those people, so everyone, can stay in a well-heated home? Because that energy poverty is increasing because of your policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u176	I notice this more often with the SP: that they, say, pull individual measures out and do not look at the overall package of measures. Of course, we just have the purchasing power cards. They're all accounted for. That's what we're gonna have to do now. For the future, we want the new energy measures that are being taken, the climate measures, to fall down in a good way and to distribute them fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u177	Mrs Beckerman, the sixth question for your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u178	I know, but this is, of course, very acidic. You say, "Look at those purchasing power cards." But the CPB has just said that this has not been properly calculated. It said this is really gonna hurt. You can now choose to fix that. A lot of people will thank you for that. This measure also makes no sense for the climate as long as people are not able to do anything about their home. So it doesn't make sense for the climate. We're chasing people on charges. You can do something about it now. Why don't you want that? I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u179	Mrs Beckerman rightly says that there is still a need to improve purchasing power. I've asked a lot of questions about that, too. She can laugh about that, but I've asked serious questions about it. I hope that Mrs Beckerman will also support me in this, because if we all have a much better understanding of where it goes sideways, we can also intervene much more effectively. We certainly have to do this towards the future, because the costs of climate and energy transition are not yet over. We know that, too. Mrs Beckerman also believes that this is important. I have heard her say in a number of debates that costs will otherwise end up in other places or in other generations. Of course, so does Mrs Beckerman. It seems to me that we should take a good look at that. It must be portable in a good way for today's inhabitants, but also for later generations. So we can't just leave it there. Mrs Beckerman of the SP knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u180	I was triggered by Mrs Mulder's speech about Tata Steel, a wonderful company. I also heard her say it's about the level playing field. If foreign steel is made more unfair and polluting, we must tax it. Will Mrs Mulder work with me to create a level playing field for Tata Steel, which pays a disproportionately low, degressive, energy tariff? And is Mrs. Mulder going to help the Party for Animals straighten that out so there's a level playing field?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u181	Last week we had the debate on the climate agreement. At that time, the Minister indicated that he is now at those tables talking to the companies about how to shape all that. There's a lot of different ways to do that. Suppose you need a stick behind the door, then you can also price CO. That is actually what Mr Van Raan is advocating here. The Dutch Bank has said that there may be room for this. If that space is there, we also want to look at that space. But that is just as separate from the proposal I am making here today, namely that if we are buying, or if we are buying, or if governments or other companies are buying, we should also look on the market to see if we are buying a little green steel or that we are subsidising steel from other parts of the world that is totally not green. Then we should be able to choose a little for our jobs and for our companies that invest in sustainability. I certainly do not rule out the possibility of encouraging them to do so. But it is up to the Minister and the climate tables to negotiate this together and to get out well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u182	I'm happy with the answer. Mrs Mulder and I agree. We conclude that Tata Steel currently has an unfair advantage, because it pays a very low energy price. We're gonna do something about that together. That's profit. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u183	Now Mr Van Raan goes a little further than I did in my reply. Let me correct that for a moment, so that everyone can see how we stand in it. Yeah, there's a lower rate for big consumers. We all know that. Then you have to see how that low rate relates to abroad and its direct competitors. As a CDA, we consider it important that we do not get leaky effects or waterbed effects. So imagine our measures making Tata Steel's steel so expensive that it no longer works for competitiveness and Tata Steel would leave. Then we must import that steel from elsewhere. This means that we have lost a great deal of employment. That's definitely not what the CDA wants. We want to give the Tata Steels of this world maximum enthusiasm to take the right steps, preferably at the right pace. By the way, Tata Steel is very innovative about this. They have created a pilot plant to look at the processes, which are quite complicated. You get to go to work there, you get all excited about that. You didn't just do it with those trials. Here it may be thought: your cat is ready and ready. But that's not how it works. So how can we encourage companies to take all the steps so that they become more sustainable for a long time? I think that's what Tata Steel wants. That's good for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u184	That is a very long way of saying that we agree that prices contribute to the fact that there is no level playing field now and that we are going to work on it together. And that's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u185	Well, De Nederlandsche Bank says something about this in his report, but also says: there are a number of vulnerable sectors, including the chemical sector and the metal sector. So perhaps it is not as black and white as Mr Van Raan says here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u186	Just now, the energy bill came up. Then Mrs Mulder says: we have to look at the overall purchasing power picture. We hear that a lot in this room. That's how the coalition parties agreed. A statement by Mr Buma was also raised. Now Mr Buma has said a lot of things. I still wonder how we should see the following statement from him in the context of the overall purchasing power picture: "Dwelling Dutch people will turn against elitist measures to save the climate. The proposals push up household energy bills and completely ignore the fact that many people can hardly bear mortgage charges." Then I wonder: what would become of such a statement in practice? It is precisely because of Mrs Mulder's CDA's policy that the citizens' energy costs are increasing. So what does such a statement by your group chairman mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u187	My group chairman made those statements this summer. Then the climate tables had just come out with all their wish lists. One billion after another was put on the table for a moment, of: the inhabitants can cough it up for a while. That shot us in the wrong throat. I can be very honest about that. Then Mr Buma said on our behalf: if you deal with the question of how we can achieve the goals and put them unilaterally on the people's plate, it is accessible to a few people, but not to our entire country. That's what we're worried about. My foreman Buma made another comparison. He said: we should be able to discuss openly and honestly that this could be a problem, because because it is about the climate that many people say it is good and so you have to do everything with the banana because otherwise things are too slow. Mrs Yeşilgöz called that the "drammers." If you go along with that, Buma said, you get the idea that people have the idea: I can't even say it's a problem anymore. Then we get what we actually had in the area of immigration policy: you shouldn't really talk about it anymore, so if you're critical, that's for no one to take care of anymore. While you should be critical of this. That's what we are as CDA. By the way, I see the PVV at my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u188	Mrs Mulder says that we need to talk about it openly and that we need to talk about it in particular. I think we do that a lot in this room. We have a lot of debates. But no matter how often the PVV says that the energy burden should be reduced: it does not happen. That is due to the policy of the CDA, among others. I have a very specific question for Mrs Mulder. Does she believe that household energy bills should be reduced, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u189	If you were to make wishful thinking, you'd prefer to have the place down. But that is not real, and I am not saying here today that this is going to happen. I think we should look at each other openly and honestly and say that this whole energy transition and our investments in the climate are not free. On the other hand, Mr Kops mentioned that even in his speech there are reports, for example from CE Delft, that it also costs money if you continue in the fossil way. So both sides just cost money. That is very annoying and we both prefer not to, but if you choose, then choose a sustainable path, which can also generate some money for our country and for employment. That's what the CDA's after.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u190	Mrs Mulder does not specifically say that the energy bill should be reduced. As far as PVV is concerned, it has to be. She also says that the energy transition is indeed not free. No, that's right: it's going to cost a lot of money, and that's going to end up on the citizens' plate. But then I have to draw a conclusion. Mr Buma referred to 'elitism measures to save the climate'. When I hear Mrs Mulder like this, it certainly doesn't show that the energy costs are going down. Then the conclusion is that the CDA is simply part of that elite, with the result that the burdens go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u191	We know that our constituents are in many layers of the population. That's what all the tests show. So we stand up for all those people who have given us their trust. I think that's valuable. And I'm not gonna roll their eyes on them by saying that the bill can go down. But I really want to keep that bill as low as possible. I do my best every day for that, because I think we should make sensible decisions here. We cannot allow costs to rise indefinitely by allowing ourselves to be hunted down to take very expensive measures as soon as possible. I'm critical of that. So that's right, and I think that's wise, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u192	The burden on citizens is also a concern of the PvdA. But it is not only the total sum presented to society, but also the distribution of that sum among the different sections of society. In the case of energy taxation, for example, the citizens are disproportionately affected. In this respect, the business community is relatively well off. Is the CDA Group prepared to make this imbalanced relief more balanced? So I mean that the citizens are going to pay less and the companies, which are often also the polluters, are going to pay more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u193	Mr Moorlag and I have, of course, already discussed this in previous debates. We have always argued in favour of this 50-50 distribution. You'd like to pursue that. The Minister also promised that he would assess the whole energy agreement on the issue of the cost allocation. Because that's an important point for the PvdA, and so is it for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u194	I am not talking about the future situation, but about the current situation, because that imbalance is already in place. Is the CDA prepared to remove that imbalance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u195	So we are going to look at this imbalance, but for the new measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u196	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u197	Mr. Chairman. Another important aspect of affordability is cost efficiency. We must use the resources available to us as best we can. We've been implementing climate policy for a long time. This transition will take at least until 2050. We need to keep ourselves sharp and learn how to do even better. Since September 2013, governments, companies and social partners have been working on the energy agreement. After five years of agreement on energy, we think it is important to draw lessons from the energy agreement and from its implementation. How can we set even better and smarter targets? And how can we take action and ensure that implementation is consistent so that we achieve the goals? We can use these lessons in the implementation of the climate agreement, on which many parties are currently negotiating. Is the Minister prepared to have the energy agreement and its implementation evaluated so that we can take that into account in the implementation of the climate agreement? Can we also look at the successful examples from the region? I am thinking of the province of Overijssel, with the funding of all kinds of changes in companies and residents. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the portability. It is very difficult for our inhabitants, as well as for SMEs, to see the forest through the trees in climate policy. For example, in renewable energy projects, they face projects that have a major impact on their living environment. They feel that they are alone in relation to the government. The CDA would like them to be able to report these signals, and that there is someone standing next to them for advice and protection. And is the Minister prepared to set up a hotline for climate policy and a national counsellor on renewable energy and energy saving? Then residents and SMEs can go somewhere when they experience complaints or problems with municipalities, provinces or the government. I can imagine that if residents are looking, they will initially go to their local energy window. But in Groningen we have seen that, at the moment of trouble, it is good to have an independent counselor. We have it in Groningen and that inspired me to think of it. This is also in line with my call to evaluate energy policy. If we really want to achieve our climate goals, we will have to have a learning attitude towards the future. Mr. Chairman. The CDA has been saying for years that nuclear energy should not be excluded. It seems that many new nuclear projects in other countries such as France and the United Kingdom have quite a price tag. Can the Minister inform the Chamber of which countries are currently engaged in the construction of new power stations, what kind of power stations they are, what costs and how these nuclear power plants fit into the Dutch energy mix? That does not seem to me to be a real option towards 2030, but towards 2050 could be a real option. In the light of the IPCC report, we should be given serious information and consideration. It is also important that the European Commission sees nuclear energy as a renewable form of energy. Does the Minister intend to discuss this in Brussels? In addition, the CDA wants us to continue to invest in nuclear research together with other European Member States, so that nuclear energy becomes even safer and cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u198	There's been an interruption for you from Mr. Van der Lee. He has two questions left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u199	I counted them, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u200	That's it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u201	I'm not going to ask questions about nuclear power right now. I understand that there will be a debate, so we will continue to do so in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u202	That's right. There will be a debate on nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u203	I would just like to ask a question about everything that has been said before, about acceptance, portability, affordability. We have also talked a lot about the climate agreement, but that is not until after 2020. I am now going to ask a question about what we are going to do about this cabinet period for people and corporations who really want to put sustainability into practice. A hotline, that doesn't help much when you're worried about the zip code rose control, about the netting arrangement, about the fact that the SDE doesn't provide an answer for your little sun PV project or your wind project with a smaller to medium-sized mill. What's the CDA gonna do at that point? Is Mrs Mulder prepared to look at the proposals, the six I have made, and also to indicate which of them she would like to see implemented in this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u204	Let me do justice to Mr Van der Lee and respond to all his proposals in the second term. Then I can study that a little bit better. That idea about LED sounded very sympathetic, but I just want to give it a little more time. Those proposals deserve that. I think it's a good thing that we've shown at this time that we're serious, that we're taking it seriously. That's why I just made a plea for circular purchases from the government itself. I'm sure there's a lot more to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u205	Mr. Moorlag, this is your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u206	How does Mrs. Mulder view stable government? We have just had to observe that suddenly a number of melons came out of the top hat today. There are Mr Bruins, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Sienot. I wonder a bit about coalition relations and how the CDA contributes to stable governance when it sees that a coalition partner now serves the other partners a melon and tries to push it down the throat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u207	When I think of melons, I think of a watermelon. I especially like that for a drink. So that's how you're gonna get him out of here. Yeah really, melon juice, that's so good! Have you ever had one of those? That's highly recommended. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to comment on Groningen where the CDA held its congress last weekend. At the conference it came up again how distressing the situation is for many inhabitants. With the return of gas extraction to zero, we will make Groningen safer. And that, of course, needs to be done as soon as possible. Soon we will also be discussing the new gas extraction decision, the repair of damage, the national programme for Groningen and the reinforcement exercise. With regard to damage recovery, I would like to urge the Minister to ensure that the old damages are treated really quickly and that the NAM carries out the rulings of the arbitrators. There is also a major task for the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage. Anyone who works at the committee or carries out work for her, I would like to encourage him to carry on with this important task, so that everyone who has damage is also done justice. Mr. Chairman. I would also like the Minister to speed up the settlement for the rest of the country. It just came up in a motion at the VAO Mining Company. I think Mrs Beckerman is quite right about that. I've been asking for it for a long time. It's about time we got it. Mr. Chairman. The PVV, like Mrs Beckerman earlier, had a legitimate question about the high profits of the CVW. I look forward to the answer to that. Mr. Chairman. Let's really help the Groningen people, because it's terrible when this happens to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u208	Thank you. Then the fraction of the SP is up. Is Mr Alkaya the first to take the floor? Yes. I call Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a quote: "Our prosperity is largely due to innovative entrepreneurship through diverse and robust small and medium-sized enterprises, innovative start-ups, proud family businesses and multinationals." This can be seen in the explanatory statement of the budget which we are discussing today. The key concepts are "new," "variated," "robust" and "proud." All terms that I also associate with Dutch entrepreneurs and Dutch employees, i.e. with the Dutch economy. At the same time, these values, which have made us so happy and so prosperous in the Netherlands, are under pressure from flat financial and global capitalism. There is only one key concept, and that is "profit," preferably as soon as possible and as much as possible. For years, successive Cabinets with the CDA and the VVD at the helm have accepted that faceless, landless and worthless investors have shaped our economy according to their interests, making our Rhineland-Palatinate economy, in which the interests of society as a whole apply, increasingly resemble an Anglo-Saxon economy, in which only one interest applies, namely that of money. Healthy, sometimes centuries-old Dutch companies are still being sold and stripped for short-term profit. Think of the sucked-out Organon, V&D or AkzoNobel, which recently had to get rid of the chemical branch. The shareholders have divided the billions among themselves each time. If it were up to this cabinet, we would have lost even the world-famous chipmaker NXP. Services such as mail and public transport have still been left to market whims, as this would be better and more efficient. This has proved to be the biggest lie in decades. Because is it better that parts of our public transport are now run by foreign state companies, like Arriva? Is it better that you can't even get away from a job as a mailman? Is it better that after years of mergers and acquisitions there are only two providers in the internet, de facto KPN and Ziggo? Of course it's not better. The market simply did not work in utilities. We need to get rid of that as soon as possible. Small companies are also still struggling with large multinationals, for example because they have to compete with powerful US Internet platforms, which do not have to comply with the same rules. Think taxi drivers across from Uber or hotels across from Airbnb. But luckily, the shore turns the ship on many levels. For example, several hostile takeover attempts have also awakened the VVD and the CDA. They also consider that measures should be taken in certain sectors and under certain circumstances to counter the sale of Dutch companies. The privatisation of the postal service has so clearly failed that the cabinet also recognises the need to reduce competition. It's okay. It's okay. If it really gets out of hand and if the damage of raw capitalism is obvious to everyone, even this cabinet sometimes seems to doubt the holy faith of the eighties and nineties that competition and greed would be good for all of us. Greed is not good for us. Liberty isn't good for us. Competition is only good if it is fair. Collaboration is often better, it is better to move forward together. This sober view of the market has made our economy so innovative, varied, robust and proud. Not the grab-what-you-get-can-mentality of the Americans. But with this Minister of Economic Affairs, who in 2018 in Summer guests still refers to the American neoliberal economist Milton Friedman as his source of inspiration, I fear the worst for the Dutch economy. I fear that we will continue along this road. Despite the fact that the market shows time and time again that the love of these neoliberal politicians is not mutual and that multinationals are only concerned with their own interests and are not at all good for society or for the environment, the cabinet has difficulty letting go of its unrequited love for the free market. Let me help the cabinet with two concrete proposals. First of all, a proposal for Dutch small and medium-sized enterprises. If the cabinet says to stand up for SMEs, why choose only the large companies to benefit from the additional 76 million that goes to the reduction in research work. The evaluation of recent years showed that the largest companies are least inclined to do more research and knowledge development through such a fiscal gift, yet another gift, while it also showed that SMEs are inclined to do so. This is not just another advantage for the large business, it also looks like lost money. Elsevier recently asked the question: does the VVD still see the real entrepreneur? Let me answer that: no, the VVD hasn't done that for a long time. Today, the VVD said it did not see the difference between large companies and small ones. That's where it goes wrong. Dutch entrepreneurs for a long time thought they should be at the VVD, but it is clear who this cabinet chooses, namely the multinationals. The real entrepreneurs, the people who are only doing miracles with a handful of employees, can count on a higher VAT rate. They are still waiting for a solution to pay for sickness, which many SMEs cannot bear, and the reduction in corporate tax benefits the many sole proprietorships and companies under business. So SMEs have just checked. The abolition of the dividend tax was the drop in the bucket for many entrepreneurs, but again a measure is coming out of the Tower which is only good for large business. So my specific question: why is the 76 million for research not being used in such a way that SMEs also benefit? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Then there is my second proposal, for all hardworking men and women in the workplace of companies in the Netherlands. If the cabinet really wants to prevent foreign investors from buying up and undressing Dutch companies, if the cabinet really wants to ensure that directors of listed companies comply with their legal task, namely long-term value creation and continuity of the entire company, if the cabinet really wants to maintain high-quality jobs, knowledge and skills in the Netherlands and if the cabinet really ever wants to meet that 2.5% of our gross national product that we should be spending on research, then it is not effective to continuously try to court foreign investors. Then you must ensure that Dutch entrepreneurs and Dutch employees can offer counterpower to those foreign shareholders and to those foreign investors. The neoliberal mentality of those who pay determines, must leave business. A company is not just a piece of land, not just a factory, not just a logo and not just a product or service. A company, they're the people who work there, and you can't own people. In short, is the cabinet prepared to participate in the emancipation of employees in the Netherlands, by giving them more control in the companies, so that they can protect their companies from foreign shareholders? I would also like a reaction from the cabinet on this point. Mr. Chairman. Innovative, varied, robust and proud. I started with that and that is indeed the Dutch economy. As far as I'm concerned, it's not for sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u210	Thank you for your contribution. I suggest that we suspend for a few minutes to give everyone, and especially the President himself, the opportunity to wash their hands. I see that the Secretary of State is very pleased with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u211	We are ready for Mrs Beckerman's contribution on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The budget is probably the most important piece of the year. This time the first budget of the new cabinet. A moment when, of course, not everything is out of the coalition agreement and all promises are policies, but a moment to see for the first time which direction it is heading. Are we going for justice or for the continuation of Rutte I and II? The first budget was also exactly ten years after the economic crisis began. A moment when people long for hope after ten years of crisis. This minister has two major issues: climate and Groningen. This budget should be an indication of the direction it will take in the coming years. Let me start with climate. As an archaeologist, I know that human history is often the history of adapting to changing climatic conditions. Climate change was partly the cause of the collapse of the greatest civilizations, but was also the cause of great new discoveries and great blooms. For example, the emergence of agriculture, in the Fertile Crescent Region, and the rise of Inca civilization are also linked to climate change. But the deteriorating climatic conditions in the second century AD could have had a major impact on the Roman Empire. The big question is: how do we deal with the climate change that is coming? Are we limiting the warming? How do we deal with the consequences? Equality is the key to solving the climate problem. I don't think that's what Bloomberg was thinking about following an article in Nature. Only equal societies have the resilience needed to do so. Rutte II's climate policy led to more injustice. Large polluters were spared, while household energy bills increased. As a result, emissions from the Netherlands did not decrease, but increased. For the climate it was hardly useful, but neoliberal fanciers of inequality licked their fingers off. Now the question is, what does Rutte III do? With this first budget they make it worse, not better. Households will be burdened with 800 million next year, 500 million companies. Households are watching their energy bill rise. Many households can't change that, because they live in a rented house or have no money to isolate their property or take other measures. This has not helped the climate and certainly not help these people. Mr. Chairman. I referred to it earlier in the debate: we have also heard the members of government parties make good promises recently about the energy bill of households. For example, the CDA states that the energy loads should not be raised. And D66, they're not paying attention right now, trying to compensate for lower incomes. But you are doing exactly the opposite with this budget. Households' energy bills are rising. And today we can do something about that. Why is the tax-free rate on the energy bill being reduced? Is the government prepared to reverse this measure? The SP is preparing an amendment to this effect. Mr. Chairman. The SP stands for climate justice, a fair distribution of lusts and burdens so that we really tackle climate problems and reduce inequality instead of increasing. Mr President, you have noticed that I am a little sick. I'll just take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u213	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u214	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Dan Groningen, my beautiful province, so destroyed by Rutte I and II and his predecessors. The province that has heard so many beautiful promises. Is Rutte III going to Rutte I and II or are we going to go for justice? What are the facts in this first budget? They are particularly painful and unjust. Shell and Exxon will get 400 million by their deal with the state next year. 400 million... 400 million for the perpetrators. And what will the victims get for their future next year? 100 million. Groningen was promised 200 million by this cabinet next year, but gets half, no less than four times as little as the perpetrators, Shell and Exxon, get. How can the cabinet choose Shell and Exxon again? Mr. Chairman. The Groningen demand certainty about their safety and future. Like the inhabitants of the village of Krewerd. They want to work on their own with the future of their village. But it can't be because of what they call "the dawdling of Wiebes." They put an ultimatum to the Minister last week: either you give us a statement that our house is safe, or you make sure that we can get to work ourselves to strengthen our village. We have long argued for control back to Groningen. What's the Minister's response? Many villages want to work themselves. This will require a future fund. A poor 100 million for next year is far too little to give a future to the wingewest that the State has made nearly 300 billion. Then the perpetrators, Shell and Exxon, who get four times as much from this cabinet. They have shown in recent weeks that they are still playing with the safety of the Groningers. At the tank park of the NAM in Farmsum, 30,000 liters of water was 30,000 liters! toxic natural gas condensate leaked. It took days for the NAM to admit to being the causer. Days in which workers and neighbors have become ill because standards are extremely exceeded. What's the Minister gonna do to make sure this can never happen again? What is the Minister going to do for the workers and neighbors who have now been put at risk by the NAM? The tank park is essential for gas extraction. After so many incidents at that tank park, the question arises whether the gas extraction is still safe at all. These companies don't deserve a present. No, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to hear any new promises from the Minister about what's coming. Groningers don't believe in promises anymore. They want to see first and then believe. And I can't believe what's in this budget. With this first budget, the cabinet can show which way they want to go: by on Rutte I and II or by on for justice. Now the perpetrators, Shell and Exxon, get 400 million and the victims, the Groningers, get 100 million. Is the Minister prepared to send the 400 million to the Groningen people, so that Groningen, my beautiful province that has been looted for so long, will have a future again? Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u215	Thank you very much. And well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u216	Ah, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u217	Take it easy. Then the D66 Group has the floor. The first to rise is Mr Sienot, so he will be the first speaker. I call Mr Sienot. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Today I deal with the issues of climate and energy. My colleague Kees Verhoeven will speak about economics. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Wörsdörfer on his maiden speech. A good story! Mr. Chairman. It is already 2°C warmer in the Netherlands and it rains in winter already much more than 100 years ago, while the summers are drier. A large part of our country is below sea level, but most people live there. What I want to say is that the Paris climate targets are also extremely important for the polder. You can continue to doubt, create confusion. You can continue to shop selectively in science. But when it comes to my health, I go to the best doctors and not to the doctor who says what suits me best. I accept that attitude when it comes to the future of our climate and my children. As far as investment is concerned, I said earlier this evening: the cost of doing nothing is higher than action. The PBL has calculated that we produce 31 billion in environmental damage every year. DME said that if we get to work now, it's the most financially sensible thing to do. If that kind of financial experts say it, I think it's okay to listen to them. That's why D66 wants to get to work while it's still possible, starting with the greenest coalition agreement, not so much because the IPCC says it whether the judge or De Nederlandsche Bank, but because we see it as our duty to act. That's why D66 is working with other parties at local, regional, national and European level to help move the energy transition with smart ideas. In Zuid-Holland, D66-deputy Han Weber is committed to a heat roundabout. In Groningen, twenty hydrogen buses already drive around thanks, among other things, to the deployment of our deputy Fleur Gräper. And in Europe, Gerben-Jan Gerbrandy's amendment was the first to give the European Parliament 55% instead of 40% reduction in 2030. Mr. Chairman. We are still dangling at the bottom of the lists of countries with renewable energy and we are at the top of the lists with the highest CO emissions per capita. But we're going to change that now with the climate agreement. We're gonna travel cleaner, live more comfortably and otherwise make our money. No one at the negotiating table gets what they want, but if everyone really wants, then we'll make our ambition come true. Mr. Chairman. We are not just talking about the climate today in conjunction with Economic Affairs, because these two have everything to do with each other. All over the world the prices of solar energy, wind power and batteries plummet. In attic rooms and garages, from China to the United States, entrepreneurs respond to this with smart products and services. Our country can still be at the forefront of this development if we are committed to a real change to a future with clean energy. Then we shouldn't stick plasters and postpone. Companies now want clarity from the government, so that we don't let this opportunity, this chance, go away. What's it gonna take? At least we think three things. We need to learn from and give space to the frontrunners, we need to invest our money in smart solutions that are really helping us and we need to get our organisations ready to start working on the implementation of the climate agreement. 'Cause there's more and more frontrunners coming in. People used to live near Tata Steel under the smoke of Hoogovens. Now this company in the IJmuiden region wants to produce green steel: day smoke, hello hydrogen factory. And so many more regions want to turn the button, from a fossil to a future-proof industry. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. How will he support these regions in their sustainable ambitions? Does he share D66's ambition to lead the way in green hydrogen? Also in the management team of the top sector Energy is looking for companies that are already really making their core business of clean energy. I see Shell, GasTerra, NAM, RWE and Eneco, and well-known one representative of real green companies. Why not windmill manufacturer Lagerwey instead of Shell? Why not solar panels manufacturer Energyra instead of the NAM? Why not Vandebron and Qurrent instead of Eneco and RWE? In short, how will the Secretary of State ensure that the composition of the top teams and management teams of the renewed innovation policy does justice to the climate ambitions of this cabinet? Is it prepared to inform the Chamber about this after the adoption of the climate agreement? Mr. Chairman. When you talk to entrepreneurs for whom renewable energy is already their main business activity, you learn interesting things. For example, there is a huge energy opportunity hidden in server lofts. Have you ever been in a server loft where the cooling had fallen out? Well, that's sweating. With the residual heat of data centres, we could heat a million households in the Netherlands. We therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to explore, together with parties from the ICT sector and with the Minister of BZK, how we can use the residual heat of data centres for homes, greenhouses and swimming pools and to ensure that the regulation also provides scope to really label residual heat from servers as sustainable. Mr. Chairman. D66 also wants to take advantage of every opportunity to invest our money in techniques that build our energy system of the future. For example, we are not in a position to grant subsidies to underground CO storage, but a sum of 10 million has been set aside for this in the so-called 'climate envelopes' of 300 million. We believe that we can spend this money better, for example on renewable energy sources such as hydrogen. Is the Minister prepared to be truly sustainable with this $10 million instead of putting them under the ground? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Not every sustainable technology is as far away as it is. Some already perform, others have potential. Solar energy quickly becomes cheaper, just like wind at sea, but techniques for storage, for example, are still in the promising phase. D66 wants both promises and stars to have a chance, otherwise we won't make it. Our energy hunger is simply too great for that. Is the Minister therefore open to putting the bulkheads back in the SDE budget? Moreover, we can avoid, for example, biomass or others, which are cost-effective but not renewable energy sources, cutting up most of our subsidies, while the renewable sources, which we need so much for this energy future, that clean energy future, are fishing behind the grid. Mr. Chairman. I see another opportunity to fast-track our energy system. Now we support promising technologies, including for energy storage, in the demonstration phase. Then we let go like this, causing them to crash into the so-called valley of death. Too bad, because with an extra boost they can shine on a global growth market. Is the Minister therefore prepared to open the budget of the DEI scheme to projects in the scale-up phase, scaling-up phase? Finally, Mr President. It is important that the Ministry of EZK is ready when the climate agreement is in place. Then we can put all the plans into practice quickly. Is the Ministry well prepared to proceed quickly with the results of the climate agreement, so that we do not have to wait unnecessarily long for legislation and regulation to come? And can the resources from the SDE budget and the climate envelope be invested quickly? I'd like a response from the Minister. I come to the next point, Mr President, but I see that Mrs Yeşilgöz wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u219	Yes, there is an interruption for you from Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u220	I was just having second thoughts about Mr Sienot's comment on CCS. D66 says: we invest in sun and wind, we don't want CO capture and storage, we don't want research into nuclear power plants. Let me get this straight. And how are we going to achieve the goals according to D66? Because it is only with sun and wind that we will not get there, and those goals of Paris are extremely important because in this way we can leave the Netherlands well for the generations after us. I just have no idea how D66 wants to do that. On the one hand they say at D66 that it is very important and that we have to speed up, but on the other hand they exclude all kinds of options.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u221	We say you have to invest in the options that really advance you, so options with which you really take steps towards a clean energy future. Mrs Yeşilgöz talks about CO storage underground. Let us be honest, I think everyone in his election programme has mentioned CO storage underground to a greater or lesser extent. So I'm not denying that's what's needed in the calculations right now. But if you're looking for new opportunities to invest, like the 300 million in the climate envelope, and you're reserving $10 million for underground CO storage experiments, I'm thinking, well, then maybe we can work with other technologies. I'll call it hydrogen, and later I'll say a little more about geothermal energy. I would say that perhaps we should use other technologies to build the energy system of the future instead of investing in maintaining the current energy system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u222	If we want to achieve the climate targets, it is a matter of en-and-and-a-half. Mr Sienot will agree with me, won't he? Now I think he's getting different jars of money and different goals and everything very mixed up. We just have heavy industry, where there are a lot of jobs. This heavy industry cannot simply become sustainable and cannot simply switch to other types of energy as of tomorrow. But it has been said that we also want to bear our responsibilities. And they say: but that means that in the time that we have no other possibilities, the COdie would otherwise go into the air, just catch it and put it under the ground. But the heavy industry needs help with that. That shelter makes our climate better, it makes our environment better, it brings us closer to those goals. In the meantime, we also invest in hydrogen, also in geothermal energy and in other things. Only with en-and-and-and I think we can achieve those goals. We're not gonna make it if we go dogmatically for one option. Does Mr Sienot agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u223	I certainly agree with the VVD. I just said there's this energy mix. There are several things in there, including CO storage underground. But I want to prevent this storage as much as possible by developing new technologies faster, such as hydrogen in combination with formic acid; I think that is all wonderful developments. Then I think: let us invest the money we can reserve for it, like in this case the 10 million I was talking about, in it too. Can we invest that money in hydrogen development? Then I think: if that succeeds, we also need to catch less COop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u224	I have another question for Mr Sienot. What option does D66 see for backup? We have wind, we have sun, we have all kinds of innovative techniques, but we also know that we can't scale those innovative techniques up yet in a way where our whole country stays lit and warm. And wind and sun don't deliver enough by far. What backup for this, and constant energy source is there according to D66? Because if I add up and subtract everything, and look at everything that's excluded, then I come up with... in this case gas. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u225	This is a very fair question. We can talk for a long time about the back capture. It's just the scenario you choose. We put it first: let's accelerate the transition and let's invest in those technologies that also bring us quickly to that true independence. Plus, you see a few things. The prices of battery technologies are really falling. Storage is therefore becoming cheaper and cheaper. There will be an electric car on the market next year, driving around for €20,000, including battery. It's charging with the sun. That's what we're talking about. So there's gonna be a lot of electric cars driving around. Those are actually mobile batteries. I say, for starters, take advantage of that potential. You already see initiatives with that. That's one form of storage. Another form of storage: the heavy industry, which you also mentioned, is now also coming up with very beautiful, inspiring plans. I mentioned already Tata Steel to see if it can be done with hydrogen. Then there's one more big source that we need to deal with, and that's heat. How do we deal with heat? Let's see if we can do more with geothermal energy so that we can make good use of it. Can we do more with the residual heat of, for example, sewage treatment plants? So there are all kinds of ways we can use, and that's where we have to take the innovation money we have, and put it under the ground as little as possible, because that keeps you dependent. So my counter question would actually be: how long do we want to be dependent on some kind of backup system? We just really need to scale up and take the next step. How quickly do we do that, I find a much more important discussion than tackling each other: yes, but what will be the backstop? Then you're investing in a backup scenario all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u226	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u227	I had arrived at Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u228	And there's someone else coming to the interrupting microphone for another question. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u229	I am actually unnoticed by the story of Mr Sienot, also because of how he tells it. He mentions a number of en-and-scenarios. I just wanted to make sure that I understood it correctly, because there are, of course, very great opportunities to also reduce energy or to tax it better so that energy is limited: road pricing, livestock cuts and that sort of thing. I think that is also in Mr Sienot's mix so that we are not so dependent on that nasty plan of B actions. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u230	It's no secret that we're gonna find a good idea to drive a bill. We also do our best for pilots, trials with payment to use. So that's where you'll find us on your side, but we made appointments in the Cabinet. If you are talking about the greatest opportunities, then it is a good thing that you call energy saving; I have not mentioned that myself. If you look at an electric car alone: it just uses almost 100% of its energy, while today's cars lose a lot of energy in heat. That's just gonna blow up, gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u231	Those are good steps, because that does indeed mean that you have heard as little as possible I think I have to invest in the current fossil infrastructure. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u232	Yes, you heard very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u233	I have only one small question left, so I hope, of course, for a very concrete and satisfactory answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u234	A very long answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u235	You have two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u236	Yes, but the other one belongs to my colleague, who is still laughing! But I'll start asking my question soon. The SP has already expressed itself: we are concerned about the rising energy bill, especially what it means for low and middle incomes, and whether it helps the climate. I saw your new chief, Mr Jetten, recently say that D66's commitment is to compensate groups that are too hard hit by climate policy. I'd really like to know what you're up to and if we could hang out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u237	That's a very good question. I think that is also a very good idea from my new group chairman. You can see, for example, that in the natural gas-free areas, so the neighbourhoods where we go off natural gas, we look as much as possible at what we can do there for the households that cannot take the step. It is also often in neighborhoods where it really means an improvement for them. So that's one route. For what else we're gonna do, I think we should look at what we can do together. Before you talk about that, of course you should also know very well what the people who really can't come up with are. That's why I mentioned those natural gas-free neighborhoods. You look at it per project and you see where the profits can be made per project.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u238	Please continue your speech. No, I didn't. Mr. Van der Lee. Yes, you have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u239	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Sienot is going to deal with the issue of Groningen. Before he takes that step, I would first like to congratulate him on his speech. In my opinion, this is the first time he has given such consideration to the broad energy field. Thank you for that. I actually had one question, because it differs from coalition parties on a number of issues. We are faced with the major issue of climate change, also because the external effects of our economic growth are not properly incorporated in the way we achieve that economic growth. Can he tell me how D66 intends to solve this for the future in areas other than climate and in which he differs from the VVD in that respect? Or should we also ask the Minister to explain what is the coherent view of this coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u240	I believe that this coalition is taking a number of key points that we as D66 can fully support when it comes to transition in the broad sense. We have to do it together with the companies. We have to do it together with the people. That is why I believe that this whole approach, that huge, large-scale consultation with five sectors, which will soon come up with a plan that sets out clear guidelines on how to standardise, how to subsidise and how to price, is a good route. Your question is quite broad. So I am also giving a rather broad answer. I think the approach we are taking with the cabinet is very clear. We need a good climate agreement with clear agreements for each sector. Where should we standard, where should we price, where can we subsidise and how can we really switch to clean energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u241	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u242	Groningen, Madam President. Then I'll get to the gas file. When you talk about Groningen, you talk about gas pretty quickly. We might also be able to change that by talking more about the future. I may be new as a spokesperson on this dossier, but I am not new to the problem in Groningen. A large part of my family lives in Delfzijl and Appingedam. I know how long they've been waiting for clarity. They often tell me how that eats them. That is why I am firmly convinced that D66 fully supports the decision to stop all gas extraction in Groningen. It's a really important step. And many more steps followed. There was a damages protocol, a compensation window, a future fund, a new NCG, a revised reinforcement approach and a law to minimize gas extraction. This minister isn't sitting still. And yet, it's as if the damage and reinforcement operation is still standing. The Groningen trust is gone. In fact, a lot of people are afraid of their own home. They're exhausted from the long waiting lists for the inspection of their homes. They want to know, what's happening to my house? What is the Minister going to do to answer this question? Any luck attracting additional damage experts? Do they provide the hoped-for acceleration? What about the perseverance of the National Coordinator Groningen? Can he sign it now? How does the Minister intend to speed up the settlement of damages? Mr. Chairman. D66 also wants to speed up the reinforcement operation, because Groningers want to move forward. I know the Minister also wants to move forward. But why is the backup going so slow? Is it also the highest priority for the Minister to speed up? Where's the biggest bottleneck now? According to this minister optimism is the whip of progress; a poet. The D66 Group is also optimistic in life. But let's make sure the Groningen have something to be optimistic about. At the beginning of October, agreements were made between the region and the Empire as a start for the National Programme Groningen. At the time, the Minister indicated that a few projects would start in 2018, such as setting up district teams to support social and mental health complaints and starting investing in Overschild. Can the Minister confirm that these projects have now actually started? How does cooperation between the Empire and the region proceed in this respect? We also hear that there is a need to build up facilities, social and economic strengthening of the region. For example, people want a community center that can also be a post office and a shop, but that doesn't fit in with the zoning plan. That sounds like a missed opportunity, because those Groningers want to get to work in their own neighborhood, they have a good idea and then the rules are broken again. What can we do about it? Can the Minister answer that? Let our message be clear: Groningen really needs us. Let's stop saying we're there for them and make sure we're really there for them. I am going to a new point, Madam President: geothermal energy. I totally agree with Mrs Mulder, who said that we want to get rid of the Groningen gas and that we still have gas in the mix. If we want to get rid of our Groninger gas addiction quickly, we need to find alternatives now. A heat source with potential is geothermal, also called geothermal. But when are we going to make this promise come true? We do see some projects in greenhouse horticulture, but in cities geothermal does not come off the ground, while there is an enormous potential. It is not the ambition of the heat sector, but experts also see a number of very serious bumps. How do we organise a healthy market for this new technology with a safe supply of environmentally friendly wells and professional providers? The previous cabinet made a success of wind at sea. Does the Minister share D66's ambition to make geothermal energy the success of this cabinet? Three things are important: we need to promote security, we need to share more knowledge and we need to provide support for people living around. Safety is always one thing for D66, of course. You can never take a walk with that. The critical report of the State surveillance of the Mines sounded like an alarm bell. The young sector looks too much at costs and too little at safety. Is the Minister prepared to legally prescribe the use of the safest technique? What other possibilities does the Minister see for increasing attention to security? The experiences of the Groningen people have made neighborhood residents uncomfortable for drilling in the subsurface. People want to keep their homes sustainable and heat them sustainably, but in a safe way. If we put safety first and have an early conversation with residents, then we can broaden the basis for heat projects. How is the Minister going to provide support for local geothermal energy residents? We also promote safety when more professional parties participate. The sector then builds up knowledge and experience. The waste and energy company HVC is already taking the lead in this. This company wants to have ten geothermal installations, so-called doublets, in operation before 2025, which is my word of the week. How do we ensure that other companies follow this example? And how does the Minister promote knowledge sharing between developers, municipalities and other interested parties? Energy Management Netherlands also has a lot of knowledge about our subsurface. Last year my colleague Rob Jetten tabled a motion to allow EBN to participate in geothermal energy projects. We were supposed to get more information about this before 1 October 2018, but we haven't heard anything yet. Can the Minister finally confirm that EBN can participate in geothermal projects? Mr. Chairman. We are also speeding up the development of geothermal energy if we are to ensure that safe projects can really start with acceptance, but we are now hearing that the licensing process is rather viscous. Sometimes it takes three to five years. That's not gonna make any sense. What can we do about this? I'd like a response from the Minister. In the end, you learn most of all by doing it. Therefore, D66 would like to ask whether it is possible for at least three geothermal pilots to be launched in different urban areas in the coming year. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Mr President, I will conclude. D66 sees a lot of possibilities for the energy transition. The odds are up for picking up. You just have to get down to get them. I myself heard the Minister say: you have to start living to find out where to go. I'd like to give him this message: start the transition to find out where to go. Let's get to work. Thank you for your attention. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u243	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Verhoeven then has the floor on behalf of the same D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u244	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to congratulate Mr Wörsdörfer on his beautiful maiden speech. I have listened to it with pleasure, as have my colleague Matthijs Sienot. I'm his digital sidecar today, and I'm gonna say some things about digitalization. And I am also very grateful to you, Mr President, for your rule about the interruptions. I think that's gonna keep me from doing my story. And that's fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u245	We're gonna see it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u246	Mr. Chairman. The EZK budget is my favorite: it's about technology and future, it's about economics and ecology, it's about innovation, investment and inspiration, it's about sustainable and digital, so it's probably going to be two fantastic days. My input is about digitalization. D66 wants the Netherlands to become a digital frontrunner. That is what the coalition agreement says, but we are doing too little and we are doing it too slowly. Additional steps need to be taken. Now it is the season of overviews and lists, about the number of solar hours, about unemployment, about how many weed experiments are done in a municipality and about how well we do in the Netherlands and how well the Netherlands does in the global economy. Those rankings are often used in political debates, and I like to do so. You may differ on the value of those lists, but the annual ranking of the World Economic Forum is really worth it and has recently been published, I believe 16 October. This showed that we fell out of the top five of the most competitive economies in the world. And yes, I know there's been a change of measurement system, but the jury report is clear at the same time. Because it says that we do too little about things that are essential to keep our companies and our economy competitive and make it for the future. For example in the field of artificial intelligence, blockchain, cybersecurity, 3D printing, big data, robotization we do not do enough and we risk missing the boat. Experts argue that we hold on too much to established industries and pay too little attention to new key technologies and start-ups. Mr. Chairman. If we are not careful, we are even overtaken by countries around us in terms of digitisation, for example Belgium that scores better on connectivity than the Netherlands. And I do know that it's not all trouble and torment. We do it all together just pretty well, but just pretty good isn't good enough for someone who wants to be a digital frontrunner. That is why I focus on three themes: first digital entrepreneurship, then digital infrastructure and finally digital innovation. Mr. Chairman. I'm starting digital entrepreneurship. In the Netherlands, it's full of good ideas and it's bursting with start-ups. WeTransfer, Adyen, we all know these companies, but start-ups are having a hard time in the Netherlands. Only 0.16% of start-ups are really start-ups and most of them fall back soon and do not grow. This is due to three problems: insufficient capital, tax obstacles and excessive regulatory burden. First of all, capital. There's enough capital, but start-ups have a hard time attracting it. The government has enough money, because it participates in a huge amount of funds and arrangements that the Ministry is responsible for. Perhaps we should even look at whether there are too many and withdraw from a number of things. My colleague Jan Paternotte has recently tabled a motion on this, but after that I have not heard anything about all these schemes and funds. So how's it going? I'll ask the Secretary of State. Are we gonna cut through this spring? Then we can better involve this in the debates on Invest-NL, the new development and financing institution. That is a promising vehicle, but can the Minister also explain to us how things stand and how start-ups and skill-ups are going to get a place in it? Mr. Chairman. Of course, there is human capital as well. And who, as Mr Wörsdörfer seems to do a lot, talks a lot with companies and entrepreneurs, who hear that they have a lot of trouble attracting foreign talent. This gives rise to all kinds of red tape, impossible obligations and income requirements, so it makes it much more difficult to apply for a visa. For this reason, D66 would like to ask the Secretary of State, together with the colleague of Justice and Security, whether it is not possible to extend the start-up visa, which I understand is already available for one year, to a period of three years, so as to make it easier for companies to attract foreign workers as well. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the tax obstacles. Paying in shares is very important. A lot of start-ups like to pay their staff in shares. Has the Secretary of State spoken to her colleague from the Treasury? When is she gonna work on this? When you ask start-ups what needs to be arranged, this is always what they say first. Mr. Chairman. Finally in this block the rule pressure. All entrepreneurs often suffer from many rules. They also notice little about initiatives to reduce these rules. The government is also often in the way of entrepreneurs with all kinds of outdated rules and legislation. We can't use that. That is why I would suggest that we appoint a tech consultant for this group of entrepreneurs, a kind of delta commissioner who will be specifically involved in testing new laws and regulations against the practice of digital entrepreneurs. As far as I am concerned, these may be the rules of Europe's digital market strategy or the rules of the Hague Departments, but there must be someone who will ensure that those start-ups do not continue to stall in all those rules that they do not really have time for. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to that proposal. Mr. Chairman. Then there is my second main point: the digital infrastructure. In October 2015, Kamerbreed adopted a motion to designate the digital infrastructure as a mainport, as well as Schiphol Airport and the port of Rotterdam. The motion asked for a vision on the development of this mainport and also to invest in it in concrete terms, for example to make the Netherlands attractive to data centres and to ensure that new sea cables with all kinds of internet traffic arrive in the Netherlands. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to speed that up a little bit. That is why I have also tabled an amendment to make an initial investment of EUR 1 million in the digital mainport. So I'd like a reaction to that, too. Very important for digitisation, digital infrastructure and our digital future is also the 5G network. This is necessary in order to be able to internet much faster anywhere in the Netherlands and also to give companies and people much more opportunities to initiate and use all kinds of services. But there is still a lot of water to flow through the Rhine if we can also enjoy the 5G network above the Rhine. As you know, D66 wants 5G on the 3.5 GHz band to be available as soon as possible throughout the Netherlands. The Secretary of State must solve a problem, because the security services want to use the same frequency. Can she promise that before Christmas she will let you know how she is going to solve this problem, which has been on the table for quite some time? Mr. Chairman. Another point is the vital infrastructure. This is about the fact that, for example, the Ministry of Justice and Security has decided not to use Kaspersky antivirus anymore. Last month, D66 asked Parliamentary questions about measures that are also used in Australia, the United States and the United Kingdom to stop using equipment from certain countries to roll out 5G infrastructure. The 5G infrastructure is such a vital part of the Dutch digital infrastructure that we also have to look at it from our security angle. The Netherlands and the European Union as a whole should not depend on such technology on countries such as China or Russia. The French President Macron has said that, for example, artificial intelligence should not depend on China and America. As far as I am concerned, this also applies to cybersecurity technology or quantum computing. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to call for a strategic technology agenda at European level, with the question of which technologies the European Union should have control over itself for geopolitical reasons and for which we should not be dependent, for example, on China or Russia and their activities. That is the case now, and that is becoming a serious problem. I'd like a reaction to this, too. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the issue of the merger of Tele2 and T-Mobile, which seem to have put everything on hold with regard to the multi-band auction of the spectrum in the 700, 1400 and 2100 bands. I understand that the Secretary of State would like to make the necessary preparations carefully, but we have not yet heard concrete dates and timetables, so I would like to know from the Secretary of State what exactly is the situation. Mr. Chairman. Then digital innovation. In addition to stimulating start-ups and digital infrastructure, we need to pay more attention to this. I do have a few questions and comments on innovation policy. As far as I am concerned, it is good that we are now putting societal challenges and key technologies at the heart of innovation policy. I'm very happy about that. That's what D66's been trying to do. That is better than those old nine industries, those top sectors, with those examples of Mr Sienot, where you can see that the top sector of Energy uses roughly only established companies with established systems. Then you don't get innovation. That is good, but it is not yet the case that clear programmes have been drawn up for certain key technologies, such as photonics, artificial intelligence and quantum technology, in order to really achieve this mission-driven innovation policy. And that would be good, because it is more effective and would also create many more groundbreaking innovations. The letter from the cabinet says that this will happen in 2019, but I think it is rather broad, because that can be on 2 January, but also on 30 December. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that these missions and multi-annual programmes for those key technologies have been established by summer 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u247	You had hoped that you would be able to make your contribution without interruptions, but that is not going to happen, because Mr Alkaya has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u248	Then that was vain hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u249	Mr Verhoeven says something very interesting and important, namely that we should not be dependent on, for example, China or America for certain emerging technologies, which are referred to by the cabinet as key technologies. We are indeed at risk of becoming, within a decade or two, some kind of digital colonies of those countries, which we are lagging behind. So we need to see whether we should not hold on to certain technologies in our own hands, as Mr Verhoeven says. I believe that we should do this as the Netherlands. But when I bring that up, Mr Verhoeven's party often blames me for proposing protectionist measures. How would Mr Verhoeven want to do that? If, for example, we want to retain a chipmaker like NXP or a key technology such as photonics in the Netherlands or in Europe, and yet there is an attempt to acquire them from a Chinese company, should we protect them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u250	I'm not talking about takeovers here. I am also talking here about using or not using certain products or parts from such companies for our own infrastructure. That actually goes even further. Indeed, the ministry of JenV said, for example, that we are not going to use Kaspersky antivirus anymore, because they are too deep in our systems, their government has access to the data that comes from it, and it is also true that that government is aggressive towards the Netherlands. Those were three reasons why that happened. If the SP wants to call that protectionist, then I will leave it at its disposal, but it is protecting our own vital infrastructure from companies that can look into our data and therefore also use our data. I think it's wise to look into that carefully. There are a lot of countries that are already doing so, and I think that the Netherlands should do so, especially in the roll-out of 5G.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u251	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u252	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. I think I had arrived at my other points. First, digital competition. We have agreed in the government agreement that a dedicated team for digital competition will be added to the Authority's Consumer & Market. The authority will then gain more control over all kinds of market failures due to the more digital characteristics of the economy. You can think of the market power of the big techs. You can think of the big advantage of the first mover, who's got the whole market right away. That's important, but I haven't actually heard about it since. So can the Secretary of State inform us about what this team has done, what the priorities for next year are and what resources do they have? Mr. Chairman. The motion for a resolution on the e-Privacy regulation. Then I don't mean the motion of the VVD, but the motion of D66. On the motion of the VVD I was not so enthusiastic, but on the motion of D66 all the more. It's about pleading for a no-button on cookie hours at European level. There was broad support for this in the Chamber, but there is nothing about it in the position paper of the Permanent Representation at the end of June. That is, of course, worrying, because they represent us in that European field. So I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she's going to carry out my motion. I know she's eager to do that. The final point, Mr President, is the shopping time law. That's not digital, I'll give you that. But it's important. It has also been discussed in the General Political Reviews this year. The Prime Minister and the Secretary of State who sits here told D66 that they are going to show how often entrepreneurs are forced to open on Sundays. This is kind of a weird position for D66. We believe that every entrepreneur should have the freedom to open on Sundays, but we also believe that every entrepreneur should have the freedom to stay closed on Sundays if he so wishes. The SGP has often referred that issue to the Court of Justice. It seems that there are obligations for certain entrepreneurs to open up on Sundays. That's actually the reverse world, and D66 doesn't want to do that. It's been going on for years, and it still hasn't been solved. So I'd like to know what's going on with that. What about obligations that can be imposed on shopkeepers to open on Sundays? When can we expect results from these commitments? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u253	Thank you for your contribution. We shall then be ready for Mr Moorlag's contribution on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u254	Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I have another point of order. That's the letter I asked for this afternoon at the settlement. I looked in Parlis a little while ago, but I still haven't seen the letter. That was a very simple letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u255	I understand from the mimicry of the other spokesmen that that letter is in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u256	Fine, that's excellent, Mr. Chairman. Then my contribution. If we want to ensure that we have a good life here in the future, that we have a job, that our children have a future and that we can maintain and realise good public services, then we now need to pursue a sensible economic policy. As far as economic policy is concerned, the PvdA has some hard issues to deal with. First of all, I find it almost incomprehensible that, when 1.9 billion was made available, the choice was made to spread it as a kind of generic relief across the business community as if it were a hailshot. My question to the Minister and to the Secretary of State is why they did not raise their finger. Why didn't they ask in the Trèveszaal if it's smarter to give back that money more selectively to burden relief? I am thinking, for example, of those entrepreneurs who invest in renewable energy. It can also be done, for example, by investing in reparation facilities and in a four- or five-folding of the State Secretary's Technic Pact. Why was the choice made for a generic reduction of charges? Why is the money not spent on the real social needs that exist? That's keeping our workforce vital. I don't hear much more business complaining about the profitability of the company, but I do hear entrepreneurs complaining about the infinite flow of invoices they have. They also complain about the fact that they cannot take advantage of and redeem good opportunities, because there are not enough professionals. The second point of concern and criticism is about energy policy, not just because of the proposal made by the VVD in recent days, namely investment in outdated technology, in nuclear energy. 'Cause then you're gonna stand for my taste with your back to the future. It was also the VVD that said in 2012 that you should not invest in wind turbines, because they do not run on wind but on subsidies. And now the VVD makes the choice for nuclear power. That's a wrong choice for me and for the PvdA. You should opt for techniques in which the Netherlands has a lot of potential. We are close to a shallow sea with very great potential for offshore wind energy. That's what we have to choose. And we must also choose to make good use of our networks. What we need to look at in particular is whether our people can digest the change that is coming. And we have to make different choices than in the past few years. For how can we change hundreds of thousands of homes per year in a confidence-building way, so make them energy-efficient or energy-neutral, if we are not even able to repair or strengthen a few thousand homes in Groningen within an acceptable time frame? In January it is six years since the safety risk for Groningen became known. We are going to have a separate debate on it, but we need to do it in a different way. My question is whether the Minister would also like to learn from, for example, the wind project De Drenthe Monden, which was already discussed in an interruption tonight, but also from other examples where things are not going well and trustworthy. I am thinking, for example, of sports associations, which are very concerned about the disappearance of the netting system. They have made investments and see that their payback opportunities are severely limited. We see all kinds of waterbed effects occur. We see that the burden on businesses is much lower than the burden on citizens. My question to the Minister is: how is he going to get this necessary change to a new energy system that the PvdA supports in a confidence-building way in society? To my mind, there is far too much attention to the technological challenge and too little to the socio-cultural challenge. Is the Minister prepared to set up a table in addition to all the tables that exist where we can discuss this issue? I have said before: engage expertise, for example from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, but it can also be from the Association Eigen Huis, the Nederlandse Vereniging Omstandenden Windturbines or the ANWB, when it comes to the mobility issue. Get these organizations involved. Mr Van der Lee was right to say that you can have a great deal of focus on results, and those are the tonnes of CO reduction for the Minister, but there must also be a focus on change in order to achieve that result. That's what I'm getting from the heart. I have two more points. The first is the ownership of the networks. Heat networks in particular do not currently own any. Municipal leaders will have to move into the neighborhood. They must inform people that they must get rid of natural gas. Who owns that trial? Regional energy strategies are being developed. That's a figure that fits somewhat strangely into Thorbecke's house. What government is going to be able to pay for it? The PvdA Group is very concerned about whether these governments are sufficiently equipped to fulfil this task. We see that the UNG sends papers to MPs stating that the resources available are sufficient for a very limited number of FTEs. If municipal authorities choose the modality of heat grids, what are they going to do? Browse in the Golden Guide? Is that where companies want to build a heat grid on call from the municipality? How is that sufficiently secured? How do municipalities obtain sufficient instruments, resources and powers for the tasks assigned to them? There are a lot of them, if I have understood the Minister correctly, because he says that the plan is being prepared at the energy table, but it will be implemented at regional level. If we are to see how this task for reinforcement and repair in Groningen is fulfilled, how complicated that is, then that needs to be clarified. This will require satisfactory answers from the Minister. And then back to the issue of networks. What are we going to do with our natural gas network in the future? We already have the question: if there are still 100,000 users, do they have to meet the full burden of the permanent right of that gas network or are we going to use that network for new energy carriers? D66 calls for hydrogen to be chosen. The PvdA strongly agrees with that. At present, our energy consumption is 80% molecules and 20% electrons. Even if you increase the number of electrons considerably, for storage and buffering you should not rely on nuclear energy, but have a transition fuel, for example in the form of hydrogen. How is the Minister going to ensure that the hydrogen economy is going to fly and that the network is maintained for that purpose? Mr. Chairman. I've already mentioned the gas sideways. This will be discussed in a number of debates. The Minister spoke a year ago, when he took office, of a government failure of non-Dutch proportions. How does he assess the situation right now? And does he think what happened for Groningen is enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u257	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u258	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Wörsdörfer on his maiden speech. I share with him the passion for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. It is wonderful that the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is on the agenda today. Economic Affairs and Climate. The clutch is good. The Christian Union wants to pass on a healthy economy and clean air to our children and grandchildren. So not a twentieth-century economy that exhausts resources and wastes materials, but a twenty-first century circular economy. There's no alternative. The ChristianUnion sees great opportunities for the Netherlands to lead the way as a high-tech knowledge-based economy with smart and clean technology and the reuse of valuable raw materials. We have everything we need to become a global guide country, provided we fully choose to go from the rear to the vanguard. This cabinet is taking serious steps in the right direction. The Christian Union sees in SMEs the strength of the real economy, of products with real added value and of the work of valuable professionals. The Christian Union therefore welcomes the broad investment package in the Dutch economy, in all companies, large and small, to replace the original plan to abolish the dividend tax. The cabinet reduces the tax on profits for small and large companies, reduces employers' burdens and invests in innovation, including in the Wbso, a significant reduction in the contribution for research-intensive companies. At the Wbso the second disc was reduced from 16% to 14% last year. It will be repaired in 2020, but the Christian Union would like to recover this already next year. There is a one-off under-spending, so there is a budget available. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State on this point. Since 2016, the possibilities to support process innovation from the Wbso have been limited. In my October 2016 motion in part No. 262 (32637) I asked for consultation with industry on the embedding of process innovation in the Wbso. From the business world I keep hearing sounds that this is being experienced differently. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consult again with the manufacturing industry on process innovation in the Wbso and to look at the possibilities? Mr. Chairman. In the Education budget last week and in the Tax Plan yesterday, I put forward the proposal for a 'Wbto' for the provision of technical teaching staff. It is very valuable to use professionals from the field in education, to train our new golden hands of the Netherlands. Companies are very willing to do this and are looking for opportunities to lend staff. With a tax deduction, the technical industry can be further tempted to employ staff in technical education. What does the Secretary of State think of this idea? I already have a commitment from the Minister of Education that she is prepared to sit down with the Secretary of State for Finance. May I ask this Secretary of State for Innovation to make this three? Mr. Chairman. The PPP bonus, already mentioned by Mr Amhaouch, is important to stimulate private investment in publicly funded research. The CDA colleague mentioned the narrowing of the base. That's a real step back. In particular, the high-tech sector and the four key technologies in the coalition agreement are hit hardest. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into a possible repair? At the end of September, I submitted my own initiative paper Entrepreneurship with a social mission, about the er- and recognition of social entrepreneurs. I have previously asked Parliament questions about social secondment and the inclusion of reserved assignments. The Secretary of State confirms that posted workers may count among at least 30% of workers with a distance from the labour market. In what way is the Secretary of State going to explicitly bring this to the attention of governments, especially municipalities? Mr. Chairman. The shipbuilding industry. Last year the amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u259	Someone's coming to the interrupting microphone and it's Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u260	I saw that the ship was already entering the next block, so I'd like to ask you a question. It's about those social entrepreneurs. Social entrepreneurs are often also SME entrepreneurs. It's often small businesses. How does the Christian Union view the D66 and CDA proposal to see how we can provide additional protection for small entrepreneurs, often up to ten employees? Because they often have a lot of other things on their minds and are not up to those big governments or companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u261	Let me start by saying that I think it is a very charming proposal. It is very clear that small SMEs really need to work in a relaxed environment. So I am in favour of everything that helps small SMEs to work better, easier, faster. Indeed, I also see the imbalance between small and large companies. I wonder if it's legal. Is it legally possible? That's a question I'd love to pass on to the cabinet. But apart from that, I think it's a very charming and beautiful idea. We are happy to support everything that stimulates small SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u262	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u263	Thank you. I come to the shipbuilding industry. Last year the Bruins/Veldman amendment was adopted for the Sustainable Shipbuilding Grant Scheme. The explanatory statement to the amendment adopted last year stated that the proposers wanted to make this scheme structural. But the budget has proved to be a one-off one. The Christian Union is therefore again tabling an amendment to open the SDS in 2019. I hope for a positive response from the Secretary of State. Building on this: research into naval construction in the Netherlands shows that the golden triangle of government, knowledge institutions such as MARIN and industry is very important. Can the Secretary of State consult with her colleague of Defense on how they will ensure that we use Dutch technology for our Dutch Navy ships and submarines? I am convinced that if we dare to make demands that are really linked to the cutting edge of technology, we will come to crucial parts of Dutch companies and Dutch innovations, even in the case of open tenders. Mr. Chairman. In particular, I would like to draw attention to start-ups and scale-ups. In July, the Secretary of State also mentioned them in her letter on the top sectors, but for the time being the concrete implementation is lacking. How will the Secretary of State involve start-ups and growthers in innovation policy? Should there not be a separate fund for smaller funding issues? Because Invest-NL seems to focus mainly on the larger companies. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I drew attention to the auntagath scheme, which no longer exists. It is important to promote crowdfunding and venture capital and to make investing in start-ups in the early stages fiscally attractive again. Does the Secretary of State agree that we need such an auntagath arrangement again? Then let's call it the auntie monastic arrangement. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consult with the Secretary of State for Finance in order to find such a tax incentive for venture capital? Mr. Chairman. I come to the subject mentioned by Mr Verhoeven, the Sunday ban on shopkeepers. The bicycle shop in Paddepoel shopping centre does not have to pay a Sunday ticket. The amount had now risen to as much as €60,000. Yet there are still shopkeepers in the Netherlands who are dealing with Sunday coercion, including high fines. It's a good thing the Secretary of State is working on a bill against Sunday coercion. I'll ask the Secretary of State how she wants to deal with new situations. Because the standard contracts often give rise to a compulsion towards Sunday opening. Formally, there may be contract freedom, but in reality, the shopkeeper can't go anywhere. During the General Reviews, the Prime Minister has promised that there will be an overview of where Sunday pressure exists in the Netherlands. Mr Pechtold also asked for solutions to contracts which exclude a certain group of entrepreneurs when they do not want to open on Sundays. Does the Secretary of State now have this overview and the possible solutions? If not, when can we expect it? Mr. Chairman. The renewable energy reserve, which now stands at 1.7 billion, is striking in the budget. Mr Van der Lee mentioned it. I ask the Minister why this pot is now so richly filled and also what he wants to spend the reserve on. In any case, let us not opt for biomass subsidies. We are now seeing different plans from energy companies to convert their coal plants into biomass plants. The Christian Union does not think it can be explained to give public subsidies. In the main thrust of the Climate Agreement, it was agreed that no more SDE+ should be spent on electricity production after 2025. It is important to prioritise biomass for those sectors where there are few alternatives, such as air and shipping, and cascading is also needed. The burning of biomass in coal plants is not appropriate. It is not for nothing that the coalition agreement states that we no longer grant biomass subsidies after 2024. How does the Minister appreciate this unequivocal position and when is the research on biomass prioritisation and cascading ready? Mr. Chairman. I too want to end up with Groningen. It is good that there is a plan for the reinforcement of houses in Groningen. This task must be tackled vigorously, because it has been too long. I understand the National Coordinator will stop on January 1st. Isn't that leaving early? Can the Minister give me the confidence that the reinforcement mission will be fully and properly implemented? A good example is Ten Post, where my colleague Stieneke van der Graaf visited last Friday. There are plans for village renewal, worked out by the village platform, a beautiful initiative from the bottom up, which strengthens the quality of life. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, these plans must go hand in hand with the call for reinforcement. Does the Minister agree with me? If so, how is the NCG going to collect and implement this together with the municipalities? Earlier, my colleague Dik-Faber's motion on mental care was adopted. It is good to see that the Minister, together with his colleague from VWS, wants to work with so-called "quake-proof care" and spend money on mental care. In the motion proposals were made for the concrete implementation on the basis of the project plan from the province. The foundation Solidair Groningen & Drenthe is willing to fulfil the employership. When will the Minister come forward with the further elaboration? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u264	Thank you for your contribution. Then we are ready for the contribution of the Party for Animals, with Mr Van Raan first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I would also like to congratulate Mr Wörsdörfer on his maiden speech. It is indeed very nice if you can do that with a budget. Let's just agree that this is the last three-degree budget. Now perhaps you will say: what is a three-degree budget? Well, it is true that the IPCC has indicated that we are on our way to 3°C warming in the year 2100 compared to 1850 under unchanged policies. So that's the scenario of business as usual, of what we're doing right now. The current 2019 budget contains only a very small part of the active climate policy that is needed. The Minister will agree with me. In short, the present EZK budget is de facto a three-degree budget, but that actually applies to all budgets. Can we agree that the next budgets are one and a half degree budgets? That's question one to the Minister. There is even more good news when the Minister promises to do so, because he also said that we found the Columbus egg. Columbus' egg in the fight against climate change is the external costs that CE Delft has developed. It offers us an instrument to take, as the name says, the negative external costs of imported and produced goods. So the citizen no longer has to pay for polluter-induced mess. We can finally make the polluter pay for it ourselves. A calculation puts the revenue for the treasury of the deferred CO-emissions account alone at 22 billion per year. Bam! That's a wonderful amount of money to catch. You've never gotten that on a platter like that before. I will, of course, send you the calculation. But on our question of whether the Minister is prepared to examine exhaustively whether and how the instrument reimbursement of CE Delft can be introduced external costs, the answer it has been looked at and it does not seem feasible, because it is....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For an egg from Columbus that is an extremely disappointing answer. Complexity can't be a reason not to look any further, especially if it can yield 22 billion. And the Minister also pretends to walk on eggs, when there is a long-standing consensus in society on the polluter pays principle. Let's finally do that. It is no longer justified that fueling a Fiat Panda costs €40 for the citizen, while fueling a Boeing 747 is completely tax-free. It's 2018, and the IPCC requires radical measures from us. There is no need for further clarification of urgency since the Urgenda ruling. So there is reason enough to pick up these complex instruments. We also know that the Minister is a fan of solving complex issues. He's famous for it. That is why I ask him to talk to CE Delft again, with the best and the brightest, possibly together with the Secretary of State for Finance, to see what the possibilities are for the polluter to actually pay. I don't think that's too much to ask. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the following proposal that was favourable: De Nederlandsche Bank's proposal to substantially increase the tax on CO. The fact that an institute like DNB proposes this gives a glimpse of the well-understood self-interest in order to avoid huge unrest in the financial markets. The risks are considerably higher in a fossilised economy than in a fossil-free economy. Does the Minister agree? And if the financial markets are afraid of something, then of course it is uncertainty and great shock effects. It was also said: the sooner we start it, the less likely it is to be shocked. So can the Minister respond to that again? Then a few comments on the fossil industry. Companies really don't run directly abroad at a higher CO price. Moreover, the Netherlands already has an unfair competitive advantage on other companies, because Dutch companies are charged very little energy costs. They have relatively low energy costs, not to mention the measures that will be taken in other countries to contribute to the Paris Agreement. We forget that very often, but other countries will have to do it too. That is an element that needs to be mentioned here. Mr. Chairman. How is the Minister going to give DNB's urgent advice to the climate tables unbiased? It does not seem to me that these tables will have missed the DNB opinion, but encouragement from the cabinet can, of course, have a positive impact. Mr. Chairman. Last week I also talked a bit about our criticism of the polder. Then the Minister says: "I am not saying that we have it all done, but we will not stop until the goal is achieved." So we're not gonna stop polding and the climate agreement isn't gonna be ready until the goal is achieved. I suspect, however, that the Minister defines the purpose differently from what we do. The means may vary, but the goal must of course be 1.5°C: well below two degrees Celcius. Of course, problems arise because sectors with high emissions are still out of the question. Think about livestock farming. Think of aviation. Both sectors are threatening to push our carbon budget through. The Minister has abandoned the concept of "carbon budget." The request is that we start using it again, because we will eventually have to go to a CO household booklet, and not to percentage savings. So I'd like to comment on that. Does the Minister also share our concerns about the sectors that, even when the tonne-hunting of the climate tables is completed, will have more emissions of greenhouses by 2050 than the 1.5°C that the world is allowed to warm up? Does the Minister also see these conflicting CO claims as a potential threat to achieving that sufficient reduction? I'd like a response. Any CO you don't reduce right now, you're gonna have to get it back later. The priority must therefore now be to reduce these emissions as quickly and as far as possible. Moreover, and this needs to be said again here, we believe that the 'unforeseen' item is still not sufficiently taken into account. After all, the reports that say that the warming is going faster are fast following each other. On the contrary, these reports cause unrest. And when we talk about acceptance, which the CDA often talks about, the sooner you start, the less stringent the measures need to be. With the warning of De Nederlandsche Bank, that financial crisis that was mentioned by De Nederlandsche Bank, we are of course not creating support at all. So the sooner we start, the better. Then it might also be good to note that we should have started earlier. I'm just gonna take another look at the CDA. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of acceptance: by being smartly priced and normalized, we can do much more to lay down the bill of transition with whom it belongs, the polluter. The low incomes, but also the fast-greening companies, can be rewarded. That is a question of political wealth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u266	Mrs Mulder wanted to comment on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u267	Yes, because of course I was challenged directly. I'll take that glove. That's how I feel. I'm glad the chairman has extra room for that. I appreciate that. The Dutch Bank has said: perhaps there is still some room to deal with it more strictly towards the companies. The story of De Nederlandsche Bank was actually: if we do not now, the companies will be billed at a later date, because all kinds of additional measures will have to be taken. The picture was sketched that you'd all get chaos in the financial markets. Then Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals says: because De Nederlandsche Bank now says so, the CDA should have started it earlier. I thought that was a bit of a separate story. So I'm gonna ask for some clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u268	Two cases. First of all, DNB didn't say there's a little room left. No, if you read correctly, the story of last week's DNB is: go do it now, at least €50 per tonne of CO emissions, otherwise the hell breaks loose, and we shouldn't have that. That shit breaks out because we didn't start before. I believe that the following should be said about the measures. Let us mention the example of the gas tap in Groningen. The CDA has really waited until the last moment for the measure to shut down that gas tap. This applies to all the proposals to cut down immediately, including the shrinkage of livestock. It's bound to happen. It will contribute to achieving the CO targets. The CDA won't even think about shrinking. So these are all measures that are really going to be taken. The CDA and the VVD could have started with that in the last ten years, but they just didn't. For example, they also maintain subsidies on fossil fuels with great pleasure. These are all matters which now require us to take more and more stringent measures. The CDA is now crying, saying: we must pay attention to the support; think about the Fortuy Revolution. This is largely due to the CDA but also to the VVD's own behavior. Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u269	Mrs Mulder, for the record, you had two more questions. You have just asked a question and you can now ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u270	Well, Mr. Chairman, I don't think that's entirely fair of you. I'm just being addressed here. Then it is also fair that I get the chance to react, because I just got a lot of nonsense poured out on me. But I won't ask another question. I'll leave that to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u271	We all get challenged sometimes. Your group has another question, but I understand that you will leave it to your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u272	I would have liked to have given an extra question to the CDA. You'll understand, Mr. Chairman. The point we are making here is that it is a matter of political will. While the cost of transition through technological learning will eventually decrease considerably, the cost of doing nothing is irresponsible. So postponing and shifting makes us increasingly dependent on negative emissions. And we can't have those negative emissions. Mr. Chairman. The lack of pace in politics is becoming less and less pleasing. Worldwide, more and more groups of people are in opposition. When we asked the Ministers of Education what their opinion was on the climate strike, their answer was precisely that the social involvement of pupils is highly commendable. We have already exchanged it: the Minister for Economic Affairs thought differently. Young people are tired of adults ruining their future. They see Shell sabotaging the climate tables. They see that LTO wrote the agricultural chapter of the coalition agreement. They see that the aviation sector is given and takes every freedom to evade a serious climate policy. And that's where more and more people stand up to. And rightly so. People are moving around the world. I'll mention a number of movements: Extinction Rebellion, Ende Gelände, Code Red. But also, for example, the growing flow of refugees from Central America on their way to the United States has a climate cause. The climate is helping to increase the flow of refugees. There's a climate component in there. These are all different expressions of the same cause of origin. Mr. Chairman. The sixth wave of extinction is in full swing and can no longer be denied. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy presents a three-degree budget here. The large-scale destruction of the environment is called "ecocide." There are movements worldwide that argue for the inclusion of ecocide as a fifth crime against humanity. In 1998, the Rome Statute was adopted, containing four crimes against humanity, but only a provision that serious damage to the environment is punishable at the time of international armed conflict. In our view, it is high time for the next step. Is the Minister prepared to investigate at national and international level whether and how ecocide can be included as a fifth crime against humanity? It will help speed up polder culture, the covenants, the endless talk. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u273	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u274	Just for my understanding, I'm known...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u275	I call Mr Baudet, who has one more question for you, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u276	I am familiar with the concept of crime against humanity. I think that's the term. Is what you mean anything other than "crime against humanity"? Or is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u277	Yes, I'm talking about the 1998 Rome Statute. There are four crimes mentioned in it. We propose to add a fifth to that. We are not just suggesting this; there is a whole movement involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u278	Exactly. Then I know what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u279	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u280	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mrs Akerboom, also on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u281	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to talk about biomass tonight. Because biomass is seen as an indispensable source of energy for heating houses and for turning industries on, as an indispensable fuel for aircraft, ships, freight traffic and perhaps also for cars. It would be a sustainable alternative to fossil fuels. But it turns out the climate gains aren't that big at all. Negative, maybe. And the sustainability risks are huge. Think of forest cover, nature destruction and food competition. There is simply not enough of it. Biomass is very scarce. The Secretary of State for IenW recently hit the nail on the head. The whole debate on biomass is still going on. We still have to map out how much is available and how biomass can be used the most high-quality. The climate agreement also states that application must be prioritised. But is this being done wide enough? Are applications outside those of energy source, for example as food, soil improver or raw material sufficiently considered? I'd like a response. In the meantime, the climate agreement is already making full use of biomass. We run the risk of counting our wealth while damaging people, nature and the environment. The debate on biomass has been going on for years, but there is still a long way to go. More attention needs to be paid to the ecological origin, to the impact and desirability and to the share of the energy mix. The Minister intends to ask an independent party for advice on a sustainability framework for biomass. But who is this party and how is the mission formulated? And why does this opinion come after the conclusion of the climate agreement? I'd like a response. We need to talk about biomass right now, before it is a subject of negotiation. That's what I'm doing today. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm gonna call it wood sting. Wood burning is not sustainable, it is even worse for the climate than fossil fuels such as natural gas and coal. Not only will CO2 be released in combustion, but cut-off trees will no longer store CO2. This is not solved by certification, and that is a fundamental problem. If trees are cut down faster than new trees are replanted, emissions can hardly be compensated, and given the massive demand for biomass, this is a real risk. In short, the idea that wood burning is climate-neutral is just a paper reality. Because much of the firewood also reaches us through polluting transport from the US and Canada, and although we state that we do not want to burn primordial forests or whole trees, that cannot be guaranteed. The use of Dutch wood also has disadvantages. A Tauw research report commissioned by the Secretary of State of IenW states that the subsidy for wood as an energy source hinders the recycling of wood. So that's counterproductive. We have argued for it on several occasions: the subsidy on wood-burning should be abolished as soon as possible. I'd like a response. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, the Dutch coal plants must close as soon as possible, but how real is it to expect that we will be able to close coal plants within a few years after they have been converted into billions of euros of subsidy money for firewood? There is a form of biomass that we have far too much of in the Netherlands and that is manure. In 2017, 78 billion kilos of manure were produced in the Netherlands. These are more than 30 bathtubs full of manure per Dutchman, including babies and children. The animals that produce manure are fed soy from South America and livestock farming is responsible for a large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions. However, the yield of that manure fermentation is marginal and it is not the solution for the manure surplus. We need to tackle the manure surplus by focusing on circular agriculture rather than investing millions in uneconomic manure fermentation. Mr. Chairman. The debate on biomass once again underlines the importance of energy saving. That is why I will end my contribution with this. Finally, after 25 years of negligence industries will be monitored for energy-saving measures that can be recovered in five years. The Animal Party has already asked questions about this and we are waiting for the answers, but what is the real saving potential in industry? What can be saved if we accept that measures, so to speak, can be recovered not in five years, but in ten years? I'd like a reaction, because energy that isn't used doesn't have to be generated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u282	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Stoffer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u283	Mr President, thank you. I've been sitting here for over six months and I've learned two things tonight. One is that if someone makes a maiden speech, you congratulate him on that. So congratulations, Mr. Wörsdörfer. But when he said it tonight, I actually thought he was joking. Because when I came here, I thought, "That's a Member of Parliament who's been through everything, and so on." So you can see that the difference between 33 and 3 seats is huge, because I think I've been through a lot of night hours here. In order to prevent us from coming here again deep into the night, I will move on quickly. I've seen a few other things in the past few years. In the strong debates we have had on energy policy and dividend taxation, for example, I noticed how well we are able to play business, households and the public sector, and perhaps a few categories that I do not name here, against each other, while the interdependence is very high. Because without headquarters no jobs, without investment and research and education less innovation and without fit workers no productivity. The same applies to energy policy. To Dutch companies only shouting 'polluter pays' is shortsighted when imports now get ample jobs, because then it just happens elsewhere. We have enough to do with each other and the SGP therefore calls for a firm approach to the regulatory burden, just like last week during the AO Regulatory Pressure. We also call for safe Groningen, sustainable but above all reliable and affordable energy supply, and good innovation policy, also in view of complex sustainability challenges that we have with each other. I'd like to highlight a few things specifically. I want to start with Groningen. For, as Mrs Beckerman passionately can say, we agree that the inhabitants of Groningen deserve decisive action, with generous compensation for damages and with a vigorous and adequate implementation of the reinforcement exercise. We went to work as a room. I must say quite frankly that I have the impression that the implementation still leaves a lot to be desired. The parties involved are not really able to move forward. Last week we received the message, after earlier the message that Mr Alders quit, that another member of the Executive Board left the National Coordinator Groningen. Is that bad? I don't know, because with these people, at least in recent years, it hasn't been possible to get that performance going. I am therefore very curious to see if the Minister has any vision and a view on how he is going to get that off the ground in the coming period. I'd say put some engineers together and you'll come a long way. This economist may have to join us, but I think that is a bit of a golden rule for you. We also had a round table with the Groningen business. The focus is now mainly on homeowners, but this seems to be at the expense of farmers and entrepreneurs. This is a major problem, especially in agriculture. Farmers are sent from the locker to the wall. The Chamber asked, inter alia, through an SGP motion, for a separate approach to the agricultural sector. I would like to hear how this is further developed. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll switch to energy. Last week we had a debate on the climate agreement. I would like to make one more point about the reliability of the energy supply. That is what is going on towards 2030 and 2050. The minister said that the stress test for periods with little sun and wind was already done by TenneT. That's right. I've spent the last few days looking through that report. But here's what I see. That report focuses on the period up to 2024, with a kind of perspective towards 2030. But that report is based, for example, on 4 GW of coal and nuclear energy in 2032. Then we are talking about the energy supply for 4 million households. But we believe that the cabinet has been working for a long time to close the coal power stations. And as it now looks like, at that moment nuclear energy is no longer really on the agenda; it is also on the way to the end. So my plea is to really do a thorough analysis on the basis of different scenarios, with a preview to 2050 and linked to the upcoming pass-through of the PBL and the CPB. I would also say here: put together a few of those engineers and an economist for a few days and I think you really did a very good analysis. Because if the power goes away from Google's data center, the failure of the location manager's Senseo device is not the biggest problem. And by the way, it could be that the outcome of this stress test is that we cannot do without nuclear energy. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has previously highlighted the contrast between the renewable energy budget and that for innovation and energy saving. It hasn't gotten any better. There is 2.3 billion for renewable energy and this amount amounts to more than 3 billion in the following years. It is fine, but if we look at innovation and energy saving, we will not even add up to 0.6 billion yet, and in 2021 we will only reach 0.25 billion, whereas it is precisely this energy saving and innovation that is so badly needed. Mr. Chairman. Then it's better to tender; a completely different subject. The Court has called for better procurement practice and shorter payment periods. It's still not going well. Some 20 action points have been drawn up on the Better Contractors route, but I understand that little has yet been achieved. In practice, it is not really noticeable. The same applies to the law reducing long payment periods. 90% of SMEs still have little to say about it. Our question is: how is the cabinet going to give SMEs more and less headwind? Then I'd like to make the point of innovation. Innovating is a lot of entrepreneurs in the genes. But in between: recently we had a company visit with SGP entrepreneurs. The owner of the factory was so smart to challenge his colleagues. Those who had the best idea for the improvement of the factory after the company visit received a prize. Successfully! So you see: without entrepreneurs no innovation, but if you stimulate them a little bit, then that goes really well. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make the point of Sunday shopping. The SGP is deeply concerned about the sharp increase in the number of Sunday shopping days. The snowball effect we were afraid of comes true. In the meantime, 70% of the municipalities are allowed to open shops every Sunday. It is very good that the cabinet will come up with a bill to prevent the shopkeepers from being forced on the Sundays of the sale. But I ask the Cabinet to include the new contracts in the law, because it is not possible for a shopkeeper to have to fight his right to a free Sunday or feel compelled to agree to mandatory Sunday opening? I very much appreciate that Mr Verhoeven of D66 has just made that point. There you can see that it is also widely worn in society. I assume the proposal will be sent to the Chamber soon. Mr. Chairman. I come to a conclusion, because I'm about on my time, I see. The proposal does not remove our concern about the general trend towards Sunday shopping. Sunday sleep's gonna die. The small shopkeepers and employees must suffer. That doesn't help to consume. On the contrary, it causes more energy waste. From this place, I'd like to go along with it: Sunday shopping destroys more than you love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u284	Thank you for your contribution. We have two more speakers to speak: Mr Öztürk on behalf of the DENK Group and then Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. I call Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u285	Mr. Chairman. Everyone's shouting that the economy is getting better. Unemployment is falling, profits are rising, turnover is growing, companies are working overtime. But to keep the economy going, labour migrants are needed. The conclusions of the research agency SEO Economic Research show that Eastern European migrant workers are even indispensable for our economy. They perform physically heavy work, work nights and are known as hard and flexible workers. They are open to work that Dutch people don't want to get their hands dirty on. In 2016, employees from Eastern and Central Europe contributed EUR 11 billion to our national income, according to SEO. I would like to ask whether the Minister recognises and appreciates the contribution of migrant workers to our economy, and would like to express his thanks to these migrant workers on behalf of all of us, all of the Dutch in the Netherlands, for their contribution to our economy. These immigrant workers don't have it easy. Where expatriates with shiny leaflets support the government, tax deductions and recruitment projects are pampered, the worker who gets up early in the morning to bake, paint or work in the greenhouse is confronted with housing problems. They are also confronted with negative imaging. The question to the Secretary of State is: what is she going to do about this? I would therefore also like to draw attention to the image of the Eastern European migrants who contribute billions to the Dutch economy. Is the Secretary of State prepared to launch a campaign to improve the image of European migrants? I'm considering a motion on this. I also want the Secretary of State to come up with a national action plan for housing migrant workers, together with the local government. This must be more than an action plan for holiday parks to be presented at the end of November. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. On this point, too, I am considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, in December, we first discussed a budget EZK with Minister Wiebes and Secretary of State Keijzer. At that time, we gave our view of the economy. We have also recorded this in the book Thinking of economics - diversity as strength. We have also offered this to the Secretary of State and the Minister. We are doing this again today, because we find that a number of points have been taken up and are not. Through the President and the Registrar, I would like to present this book to the Secretary of State and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u286	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u287	We have proposed the creation of a centre of knowledge for diversity and the economy. We have proposed that the second year of illness should no longer be paid by entrepreneurs in companies with fewer than 25 employees, to tackle discrimination harder, including from entrepreneurs, to reduce taxes on SMEs, and to make a social cost-benefit analysis of the negative impact of xenophobia on the economy. When it comes to the Disease Law and the tax reduction for SMEs, we see that steps are being taken in the right direction. My compliments on that. On the other points I have mentioned, I see little progress. That is why we want to bring this book to your attention once again. The DENK Group regrets that little has happened. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has changed over the past decades. The Netherlands has become more multicultural. We believe that economic policy must adapt to this. DENK's group wants diversity and the economy to be better linked. Research shows that there is strong evidence that diversity can strengthen the economy and lead to more innovation, jobs and growth. But the right framework conditions must be in place for this. DENK therefore wants a knowledge centre for diversity economy and multicultural entrepreneurship, a kind of DMO. DMO should provide faster and better insight into laws and regulations, subsidies, schemes and funding for entrepreneurs from a variety of backgrounds. Diversity can give an enormous boost to the economy. Scientific research has shown that. The sources are in our economic plans. In September there was another study by the German Institute for Economics. This study confirmed that diversity has great economic added value. In 20 rich countries, an average of 1% additional economic growth per year was achieved from 2011 to 2014, thanks to immigration. McKinsey's research also indicated that more diversity leads to more economic growth. McKinsey even mentioned an amount of EUR 100 billion that we miss out on gross domestic product. According to the Secretary of State, is this true? What's she doing with this? Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate a knowledge centre for diversity and economics? Or is she willing to open up the Chambers of Commerce and the National Service for Entrepreneurship in the Netherlands more to ethnic entrepreneurship? Mr. Chairman. Diversity is, as I said, an enrichment for the economy. In some cases diversity is financially punished. Unfortunately, women, for example, earn an average of €300,000 less than men in their working lives. How can you stimulate diversity if diversity is not rewarded? DENK therefore wants this government to call once again on companies to pay women equally. I'd like a response to that. I am also considering a motion on this point. In order to further strengthen diversity, DENK has another proposal. DENK wants to achieve a 10% diversity quota for people with a migration background at the top of business. Diversity is unfortunately a long way off in many sectors, including in this Chamber. Finally, Mr President. Diversity is further hampered by discrimination. Discrimination is a big problem. Almost everyone is opposed to discrimination, but opinions differ on the approach. For DENK: not words but deeds. As far as DENK is concerned, discriminatory entrepreneurs enter the racism register. This means that they are no longer eligible for government contracts for a certain period of time. They pay, like other people who discriminate, a xenophobic tax of €1,000 per discriminatory ruling, act or behavior. Also the ideas of the PVV if you can call the election programme on one A4's by Geert, unfortunately, cost us jobs and growth. An inhospitable entrepreneurial environment is bad for our economy. DENK therefore wants the government to come up with an action plan to create a welcoming business environment. DENK wants the Central Planning Bureau to make a social cost-benefit analysis of the Wilders effect. For example, the economic costs of judgment, hardening and roughing can be expressed in figures. Can the Minister ask the Central Planning Office for such an analysis? I am also considering a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u288	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Baudet has the floor as the last speaker in the first term of the debate on the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u289	Mrs Yeşilgöz calls "climate." I'd say something about climate, but I don't have time. If Mrs Yeşilgöz asks a question, I can answer it and explain my climate vision to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u290	I assumed you'd finished your contribution. Is that right? Otherwise, you've got 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u291	Mr. Öztürk, what's your climate vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u292	Yes, very good! Unfortunately, as a small fraction, we do not have much time. The large groups will have more time to explain their climate vision in detail. Mrs Yeşilgöz has nothing to do but talk about climate. All the other wallet parts were taken from her. We are going for a more sustainable climate. We want to support the citizens of the Netherlands in solar energy, wind energy, creative new ideas and energy saving. We see that society does not support nuclear energy, we see that the big companies do not support it, we see that it is very dangerous. Parties dare not mention location. I think this test balloon takes a lot of people a lot of time. DENK stands for an environment in which renewable energy sources are used. We have also said many times about gas that we unfortunately still need to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u293	Mr Öztürk, it is good practice that we help each other a little bit with interruptions, but we are not going to use one interruption for a whole new contribution on climate. You can talk for another ten seconds and then it's over with the fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u294	Thank you. I would also like to thank Mr Baudet for giving me the opportunity to make this contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u295	That's great. What a sign of collegiality, so late at night. Thank you for your contribution. Finally, Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we have the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Out of a total of 4.6 billion, 2.9 billion goes towards "efficient energy supply and climate change reduction." That is 63% of the total budget, almost two thirds. Now, of course, FvD is also a strong supporter of efficient energy supply and cheap energy for all Dutch and Dutch companies. Unfortunately, however, the Rutte cabinet uses a very wrong definition of what is effective, namely to focus on reducing CO emissions by 49% by 2030. The majority of EZK's budget will thus be lost next year to nonsensical climate action. There's nothing effective about that. It is tax money that could have been invested in the Dutch economy through the Ministry of Economic Affairs by reducing burdens on entrepreneurs and by simplifying stifling regulations or subsidies for innovative start-ups. Tax money that could have been included elsewhere in the budget, for example in health care, could have generated a rise in the cost of nursing staff, or an improvement in education, an increase in safety, a resolution of the housing shortage. These costs are just the beginning. As soon as the absurd climate agreement enters into force, and that is what this cabinet wants, Dutch taxpayers are going to pay another hundreds of billions more. All households must become energy neutral. For this, 8 million Dutch households will have to get rid of the gas. The Economic Institute for Construction calculated that this would cost roughly EUR 235 billion. More than 75% of the homes in the Netherlands have a so-called C-label or lower; the vast majority of them. The energy-neutralisation of such an average house with a C-label costs more than €20,000. With a D-label house, for example a detached house, it costs over €30,000. Then we haven't talked about older houses with a label of E, F or G. People will also have to replace their central heating boilers with expensive heat pumps. In autumn and winter, when it is too cold and that heat pump turns off, they will have to heat their house electrically. This is a tax on which our electricity network is once again not equipped, which means that it needs to be extended throughout the country. Billions, hundreds of billions. To be coughed up by the Dutch taxpayer. For companies, too, it will cost hundreds of billions: more than 210 billion to take them all off the gas alone. Then there are many companies, for example in industry, which are not able to operate without fossil fuels and therefore will have to leave our country or who, like beer brewery Swinckels in North Brabant, will have to build a brand new beer brewery. The absurd amount of electricity needed to heat all Dutch households and companies electrically must be generated somewhere. We can't do that in coal power stations anymore. The Rutte cabinet has decided in all its stupidity that the remaining five Dutch coal plants, accounting for more than 30% of all electricity, should be closed by 2030. Wind and solar energy already cost the Dutch taxpayer more than 70 billion in 2015. An investment, would say Wiebes. But after all these tens of billions, now only 2% of the total energy comes from wind and sun. It's just what you call an investment, Minister Wiebes. The rest of the renewable energy now comes from biomass, which in fact means wood in coal plants. This also results in 0% CO reduction, but that aside. In 2016 alone, 3,6 billion in subsidies were promised for this wood support in coal-fired power stations. However, this biomass also provides for no more than 6% of our total energy needs. How many extra billions must be spent to reach Rutte's goals? Ir. Frans Rooijers, director of the CE Delft research agency, estimated at the hearing of the EZK Committee on 11 October 2018 that the proposed energy transition would cost at least 50 billion per year. So that's 1,000 billion, just for the next 20 years. When it comes to GroenLinks, the VVD has now taken over the agenda of GroenLinks on almost every point, so the party of mathematician Jesse Klaver might also be introducing a CO levy and imposing additional energy and gas taxes on this issue. You can immediately pay a packing tax, a plane ticket tax, an open space tax, an incineration tax, a flower tax, a meat and fish tax and a sugar tax. Proponents assure us that all these measures and all these astronomical costs are really necessary. According to them, the end of the world literally depends on it. If the Netherlands does not immediately stop emitting CO, this will lead to catastrophic warming and extreme weather worldwide. Extreme drought, extreme rainfall, hurricanes and floods will await us. Millions, yes, billions of people from Africa and Asia will have to flee and settle down in the Netherlands. At least, in the part of the Netherlands that has not yet disappeared under the sea. Yeah, these people really believe all this. The climate religion, this mysticism, this sectarian apocalypse fantasy is alive and well. But in reality, we find nothing of these terrifying doom scenarios. There is no increase in drought in the world at all. I have here a graph showing the decline in drought over the last 36 years. There is no noticeable difference in precipitation, not on land and not at sea. Perhaps the clerk can copy it and distribute it, if need be; then you can see it. The number of hurricanes has been steadily decreasing since 1900, in each category. Then there is the average temperature on earth as far as we can measure it, because it is extremely difficult to have reliable data on it, especially before 1979, the year in which the first satellite measurements could be made. Insofar as we can objectively establish it, with estimates and so on, it has indeed risen slightly over the last century, but much less than has always been predicted. Moreover, the fastest warming between 1910 and 1925 was a period in which there was no relevant human CO emissions at all. A few hundred years earlier, it was a bit warmer on earth than it is today, and for example, wine was grown in all kinds of areas where vines can no longer grow. In short, the climate is changing quite a bit, but it is most likely not serious, and it is not happening very quickly. Man probably doesn't have a very big influence on it either, and as far as it is, it's very limited. Again and again, this is a very interesting point in the climate debate than the statement that as many as 97% of scientists would nevertheless agree that climate change is mainly caused by humans and is also extremely dangerous. 97%! Well, then you'll have to come from a very good house to fight it. Obama tweeted it and the climate alarmists liked to take it over without a hitch. It fit in their alley, so nobody wondered where that 97% actually came from, how researchers would have gotten that percentage. I have news for you: that 97% statement is completely incorrect. The theorem was posted in 2013 by John Cook, a well-known climate alarmist. He looked at 11,944 climate-related studies, and only 65 of these papers explicitly mentioned that humans have a dominant influence on the climate. Only 65. That's 0.5%. So the consensus is not actually 97%, but 0.5%. Then how did Cook get the 97%? Well, first he threw away about 8,000 studies, because they simply didn't say anything about the role of man in the climate. Of the 4,000 he had left, the majority fell into the "implicit support of man-made warming" category, as he had identified it. That was for example when an abstract stated that CO leads to warming, but doesn't say anything about the extent to which it leads to warming. If we were to count like this, there would be a 97% consensus in the Netherlands on the party programme of DENK, ladies and gentlemen. 97% is absolutely not a reflection of a real scientific consensus. It couldn't possibly be. The climate is a particularly complex set of ocean currents, atmospheric interactions, solar impulses, volcano activity and so on. In the midst of that complicated debate, which is still very limited in understanding equilibrium that determines our climate together, the cabinet chooses to commit itself once again, at about 1,000 billion in costs, to a radically alarmist hypothesis, in which absurd climate targets are set which, if all goes as these alchemists think, could, in the most optimistic of their own doom scenarios, possibly lead to less warming. If all the countries that have signed the Paris Agreement were to actually do what they have promised, what they are not going to do, because only in the Netherlands are international declarations of intent perceived as binding, it would have an effect worldwide. Again, if things were to go the way they thought in their alchemist climate VOoodooism that the climate would behave, this would have a global effect of 0.05°C less warming. This is a totally unmeasurable, totally insignificant effect, a completely absurd policy objective. The story is getting even more colourful, because in the meantime industrial giants such as China, India, the United States, Russia, Turkey, Iran and such a handful of countries are not participating. As a result, every effect is destroyed again. In fact, in India, 10 billion will be invested in the construction of coal power plants over the next five years. Chinese companies are currently planning to build another 700 new coal plants in China alone in the coming years. In addition, the population of Africa will explode from 1 billion to about 4 billion in the coming years. That is also something we never hear about the VVD and GroenLinks. Where are these people gonna get their energy from? From green electricity, windmills or high-tech solar cells? Stop it! They're going to build coal power plants. They're going to eat meat. They're gonna build cities and factories. They're gonna drive cars. But we here in the good Netherlands, in the so far still fairly prosperous Netherlands, we are going to spend 1,000 billion on wind farms, solar cells, putting COen under the ground, devoid of trees from Canada, because biomass in climate alchemy is bizarrely also called sustainable. You must have voted for the VVD or GroenLinks. You'll have to work hard to save a few hundred euros a year. You'll just have to watch the cabinet stare blindly at absurd sustainability goals, while this year it again brought a record number of more than 235.000 immigrants to the Netherlands. That is a completely unsustainable immigration policy. FvD wants to do something completely different. We want the Netherlands to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. We want to stop spending on sustainability immediately and instead invest in the Dutch economy and Dutch society. Research into nuclear energy is perfectly natural. Let us strive to build the world's first commercial thorium reactor. It could be ready in seven, ten, twelve years. There are plans for that. But let us also continue to use gas, which is a super-efficient, cheap and clean energy source. Coal plants must remain open. The taxes need to be lowered and can be lowered. The mass immigration must stop and can stop. And the people in the Netherlands should not have to cough up 1,000 billion of bullshit targets. I said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u297	Thank you for your contribution. This brings us to the end of the first term of the Chamber when we discussed the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-28.u298	The continuation of the debate and therefore the first term for the cabinet will take place next Thursday. Fortunately, since there will be no debate after this, I shall close the sitting. Thanks to everyone for being here.
