ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the General Affairs Council. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and give Mrs Maeijer the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. A decision will be taken next week to open accession negotiations with Albania and Macedonia. You either agree or you don't agree. So the time of vagueness is really over. However, I have just heard from the cabinet and from some parties that there seems to be room for manoeuvre here, that under certain conditions there may be a green light for opening negotiations with Albania or Macedonia. And that is something we absolutely should not do, if it is up to the PVV. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to agree, even under conditions, to open accession negotiations with Albania,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet not to agree, even under conditions, to open accession negotiations with Macedonia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1885]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1886]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr President, I do not have a motion but I have two questions for the Minister. Unfortunately, I could not attend this afternoon because of the tax debate until the end, but I did ask questions. My first point is the countries which are grouped into groups. In the West Balkan, that's three times two. We have had Romania and Bulgaria in the past. Does the Minister want to respond to that tying again? In this case, Albania and Macedonia are two different countries. SP and 50PLUS also tabled motions a while ago, both on stopping negotiations with Serbia and Montenegro and on not starting with Albania and Macedonia. My second point is that it is striking that the Commission considers the countries of the West Balkans, the six and the three times two geopolitics to be important. I don't quite understand that. I therefore ask the Minister why that argument is not mentioned in Turkey, a NATO member at all. Geopolitical aspects would not play a role there, but in the West Balkans it should be a reason to admit them. That is not really clear to us at all. Finally, I would ask the Minister to let us know at a later date what the pre-accessional fees that these six Western Balkan countries have received so far are. How much is that per country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the debate on behalf of the CDA, I asked the government not to agree to start negotiations with Albania on accession to the EU. The CDA believes that Albania is not yet ready to join the EU. We have, with all due respect, discussed this well. There are also parties, GroenLinks and D66, who said it would be right to involve Albania and start negotiations. The CDA believes that negotiations on EU accession should primarily be in the interest of EU Member States. If Albania's excessive accession weakens the EU, it is also to the detriment of Albania. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on the basis of this progress report, Albania clearly does not fulfil the five conditions set out, for example, because there is no track record in the legal reform, in the fight against corruption and in the fight against crime;]] [[Notes that on the basis of this progress report no accession negotiations can be opened;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government not to accept the Commission's proposal to start negotiations on accession to the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Helvert, Omtzigt, Anne Mulder, Van der Graaf and Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1887]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr Van Helvert said that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, for example, feels differently. Of course you can. You can think about it differently. Now that such a broad coalition of government parties is tabling this motion, I ask Mr Van Helvert whether this will not bind the coalition parties to the hands of the minister. The Minister will be able to defend himself in no time. During the AA he explained that he would have to come to an agreement with 26 or 27 other countries and have some freedom of movement for this. He's not getting one right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u7	That's right. We are tying the Minister's hands somewhat because we really believe that Albania's current position cannot lead to the opening of negotiations. In the debate we discussed this with the Minister. In fact, we felt that the Minister was not keen enough, let me put it this way. The Minister also asked: if you want that so sharply, Mr. Van Helvert, then you should file a motion. I have taken that invitation with all my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u8	That is indeed the case. Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u9	And by the way, Madam President, I have something to correct. It is said that the parties of the coalition support the motion. I attach great importance to the fact that opposition parties also support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u10	I'll take a look. Yes, Mr. Jasper van Dijk is also underneath. Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Next week we are discussing the opening of accession negotiations with Macedonia and Albania. The Christian Union is reluctant to do so. Countries will first have to meet the accession criteria. A deal is a deal, the minister called it today. Unfortunately, the European Commission is moving too quickly over the state of the rule of law in the Balkan countries at the moment and geopolitical arguments prevail. The Christian Union is clear that the countries of the Western Balkans should have a European perspective. That is why I ask the Minister how the Netherlands can support the good forces in the six countries in the Western Balkans that really want to work to strengthen democracy and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u12	I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister, whom I would also like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maeijer has tabled two motions. In the first, it invites the Cabinet not to agree, even under conditions, to open accession negotiations with Albania. I indicated during the debate that the government believes that Albania has shown progress in a number of areas, but that it is certainly not yet there in very important areas. At the same time, I indicated that I am from "a deal is a deal." If a country does not meet the conditions, it should not come into the EU, but if a country does, then we must also live up to expectations. That is not yet the case with Albania, but I do attach great importance to clarity. There is another motion on Albania which I think is in line with. I'll tell you more about it in a minute. But this motion is of the type "not now and never not." That is how Mrs Maeijer explained it. I find that contrary to the agreements made. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. The same applies to the motion on Macedonia. Macedonia must also show improvements in a number of areas. I indicated that I believe that Macedonia is relatively farther than Albania on a number of points, but still not where it should be. This motion, too, is: not now and never not. Also the motion in part No. 1886 I must therefore advise against. Mr Van Rooijen repeated a number of questions which I answered during the consultation, but he was not there. That was the question of how I feel about dividing into groups of candidate countries. That is what I said in the consultation that I find illogical. Countries must be judged themselves and also deliver the results that go with them. As far as the geopolitical argument is concerned, I have said that, of course, I accept that, but that should not lead to the more flexible or different application of the criteria. And there was a new question about the exact amounts per country. I shall return to that in writing, because Mr Van Rooijen has to forgive me for not knowing that immediately. That'll be handed over. Mr Van Helvert and a number of others have tabled a motion in respect of item No. 1887. It's also about Albania. He also stated in his explanatory statement that he felt that the criteria had not yet been met and asked the Dutch Government not to agree to the Commission's proposal to start negotiations on accession to the EU. In an explanatory statement, he said that if you meet the criteria, you should be able to do so, not to return the promise that was made once. Against the background of that explanatory statement, I shall leave this motion to the Court's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u14	Before proceeding, Mr Van Ojik has a question on the last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u15	Yes, Mr President, because I will have to advise my group on the votes later. I just heard Mr Van Helvert say: we did not think that the Minister was keen enough. Well, apparently the Minister thinks so too now. The point is that the Minister has explained in detail this afternoon that he would prefer that these negotiations should not start yet, and I could understand it, but that if soon it would appear that a large majority would like it, he might also be able to start living with it, provided that he would be comfortable on a number of points. Now there's a motion that's gonna force him not to agree. And then the minister says "judge chamber." I really don't understand anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u16	The explanation given by Mr Van Helvert was very important, partly on behalf of the other authors. That explanation did not mean: not now and never not. The explanatory statement included: there is not enough progress at the moment. That is what I said during the general consultation. I realise that Mr Van Helvert and his colleagues are going to go further with this motion by saying: yes, that also means that the government cannot now agree with the Chamber. At the same time, however, Mr Van Helvert leaves room for such a situation to arise if progress is made. This motion is also different from Mrs Maeijer's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u17	Yes. Mrs. Van der Graaf's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u18	Then I come to Mrs Van der Graaf's questions. She also commented on the geopolitical argument. I acknowledge, in line with what Mr Van Rooijen said, that there are these arguments, but I do not think that they should simply weigh down the criteria for EU membership and the pre-negotiation. Then she asked: how do we support the six countries? We are doing this on the one hand by sticking to those strict criteria, because it is also an incentive for those countries to improve internal affairs that need to be improved. In addition, there is financial support in the form of pre-accessional fees. I just promised Mr Van Rooijen that I would provide the financial overview. Mr President, I hope that I have responded to the questions and motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-9.u20	We will vote in more than ten minutes on the motions that have just been tabled and the motions that have already been tabled.
