ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	We'll go straight to the V.A.O. on electoral matters. The debate was held on 4 July. I welcome the Minister, the MPs and everyone who is interested again today. Welcome to all the students in the gallery. I would ask Mr Koopmans to take the floor first. Go ahead, Mr. Koopmans. You're speaking on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Reports have already been produced on the costs that electronic voting would entail. It seemed very expensive in that, but there are doubts in practice. The Minister has already said that she is going to investigate the electronic counting of votes. It also undertook to look again at the cost of electronic voting. I would now like to table a motion with Mr Özütok van GroenLinks so that the Minister can look again at the practical possibilities of electronic voting. We are therefore concerned not only with costs, but also with the question of how electronic voting can be done. Of course, we all have questions about electronic voting. Can it be reliable? Can it be affordable? If it can be reliable, there are so many benefits. Because then there are no lost votes, like we go through every election. Then there are no invalid votes. And that's also very important. Then voices are accessible to everyone, including the blind and the partially sighted, who can hear what they're doing. And it's just more visible. So there would be a lot of profit. So I would like to ask, together with Mr Özütok, if the Minister can see one more time to see if it can be done in practice. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government is investigating a new model ballot to be counted electronically;]] [[considers that electronic voting, provided it can be reliable, is good for the reliability, accessibility and efficiency of the electoral process;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to examining the electronic counting of votes, to examine at the same time whether, and if so how, with the latest techniques, electronic voting can be carried out reliably and affordably, and to inform the Court of Justice simultaneously,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koopmans and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	Earlier, in 2013, an investigation was conducted by Mr. Van Beek. That was only five years ago. This resulted in research results. My question to the VVD and to Mr Koopmans is actually whether he can explain to us the added value of his motion on conducting research in relation to the research that has been done before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'd love to. Precisely that report by the Van Beek Committee said that electronic voting is possible and that it could also be reliable. It has also formulated a number of conditions for this. So that's what we need to get on with. But what has not been established in that time is which devices can do that exactly, how we are going to do that and that sort of thing. That Van Beek report has just given us the hope that it can really be reliable and possibly affordable. So we want to go through with it and not make that report disappear in a drawer again. We want to continue and build on that hope. If there are any questions about whether it can actually be reliable and affordable, then we need to ask them. I have those questions, too. But we shouldn't do this just because we're scared, not because we're scared. Let's ask those questions. And now that the Minister is going to investigate a number of other things and also introduce electronic counting, which also entails costs, let us use the opportunity to see if we can do it again in the current circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	D66 is concerned about reliability. The results of the elections must be of maximum integrity and reliability, for the electorate itself and for society as a whole. If they are not integrity and trustworthy, elections are "losings." So my question is why the measures that have now been taken are not sufficient to ensure the reliability of the process in any case. Electronic voting, for example, is also very expensive. The question is, how are we going to cover these costs? That is why D66 does not see the need for this motion at the moment, but you may still be able to convince us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	If I hear Mrs Den Boer correctly, she actually says that she has exactly the same questions that I put in that motion with Mr Özütok. The question is whether it can be trustworthy. I'm not saying that's absolutely true, but I'm saying that we think it's important to look at it. Let's do that. The question is also whether it can be affordable. I am not saying that that is absolutely the case, but I say let's take a look at that. Let us use this opportunity to take this with us, because the Minister is already going to look at the electronic counting of votes. So I think I totally agree with Mrs Den Boer. We need to ask these questions about reliability and affordability. This is the moment. Then let's put them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	Of course, I think everything is fine, especially at the beginning of the parliamentary year, but I find this a little weird. Mr Van Beek Mr Koopmans knows him Mr Koopmans did a great deal of research a few years ago. You can hack into all the devices on the Internet. If you want to avoid that, you really have to spend an exorbitant amount of money. And then you don't know what you've got. That is why I think it has been decided in wisdom to solve the problem in practice, namely to make counting electronic. There are proposals for that. There has even been legislation for the ballot, which has been rejected by the Chamber. But that's the minister's assignment now. Then I find it strange that the VVD gives the Minister another mandate at the same time, namely to do a little bit more of the research done a few years ago. I don't get it. What's behind this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	Let me try to help Mr Van Raak. What is behind this, I think, is the same concern that Mr Van Raak has: can it be reliable and affordable? That's what we'd like to know. I think he is right to say that the risk of manipulation is very high if you vote with Internet-connected devices. So let us do it, for example, without it being connected to the Internet. But then you might still have a little screen, like the one I see here, something electronic and you can click on. Perhaps a piece of paper will come out that says: I voted for Mr Van Raak, for Mr Van der Molen or for someone else. Maybe you can. Let the Minister investigate that. We have those questions. Mr Van Raak has those questions. Then why should we not ask these questions? Let us not remain in fear and do nothing because we do not know whether it can be trustworthy and affordable. No, let's just ask those questions. Let the Minister take the opportunity to see if she can answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	These would be very real questions like Mr Koopmans who had asked a few years ago. In fact, I asked the same questions back then. So we had an investigation, with an entire committee, the Van Beek Committee. He figured all that out, with big reports, and we have an answer to it. So I really do not understand why we need to re-examine the same investigation, while at the same time we have given the Minister a clear and completely different mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	No, Mr Van Beek has carried out a detailed study which found that it would be possible to vote electronically. But that was in general terms. A further investigation was then carried out into what it would cost. That was not Mr Van Beek, that was another investigation. So Mr Van Beek's research has given us hope that it might be possible, but it was not practical. It wasn't about a particular device that you could put somewhere in a certain way. So that still has to be done. The Minister has already said that she is going to check the cost study, because there are new circumstances and new techniques. We're further than five years ago. In addition, the Minister is already going to look at electronic counting. It costs money, too. If you're gonna enter that, you're already gonna lose a lot of money. Perhaps then you can also introduce electronic voting on the same occasion, with less cost, with less cost. Let's just ask. The occasion is now. I assume that Mr Van Raak still has the question he had five years ago. Let's put it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	It's pretty easy to do an investigation, but you have to want to follow up on it. Mr Koopmans always says that it must be affordable, but I am not aware that this minister already has hundreds of millions on a shelf to make the outcome affordable. We'll have to finance it eventually. What does the VVD find affordable? There may be ten figures, but it's about what you want to spend on it. This motion may be very easy if you are not prepared to do so at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	Not at all. The Minister is already going to investigate whether electronic counting can be affordable. That also has the support of Mr Van der Molen. Then it is not difficult to ask whether votes can be affordable? The Minister will then, hopefully as soon as possible, come forward with an overview of the costs. Then we'll all have to sit back together and see how we can solve that. But if it can be affordable, I hope Mr Van der Molen will also be in favour. What is the problem with just asking if it can be affordable? Or does Mr Van der Molen not want to ask that question anyway because he doesn't really want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Van der Molen always wants to know everything, but I am also trying to look at what we already know in a realistic way. Previous investigations have convinced this Chamber that it is simply not going to happen because amounts run in the hundreds of million. At the same time, we see the problem at the polling stations when it comes to counting. That's where the mistakes were made. The CDA therefore strongly supports the fact that the Minister is aiming to do so, because it will really improve the reliability of the process. The CDA is making sure that we give the Minister a new assignment, the outcome of which we can predict in advance. That is why I call the motion rather easy at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	Finally. No, the minister's going to investigate things now. This is, of course, part of the same process. Then let's ask those questions. Can it be reliable? Can it be affordable? And can it be in a way that, like last time, thousands of votes are lost because they are invalid? Mr Van der Molen has also become very angry about this in my memory. With electronic counting, you can still have invalid votes. With electronic voting, that will be very difficult. That's profit. Let's see if we can make that profit. It is also very important for the blind and visually impaired. They still can't read the new note that the minister may be introducing or very difficult to read. If we vote electronically, they may be able to put on headphones and hear whether they are voting for Mr Van der Molen or Mrs Özütok. That's a big profit. So let's see if we can make that profit. A simple question is whether it can be reliable and affordable. Let's ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks. Ein herzliches Willkommen an unsere Kollegen aus Deutschland. Willkommen! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just before the summer, we discussed the issue of voting rights in general with the Minister. We then again concluded that there are still a number of significant steps to be taken in terms of the accessibility and transparency of the electoral process. The Minister will shortly send a number of changes to the Chamber. Then we'll talk about that later. For now, I have a motion on accessibility. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many people with disabilities are still unable to participate independently in the electoral process;]] [[believes that anyone who so wishes should be able to exercise the constitutional right to vote independently;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include a monitor for the accessibility of the voting process and this monitor in the progress report implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	During the AO D66 has also called for a lot of attention to be paid to the accessibility of people with intellectual disabilities and, of course, to those with physical disabilities. The Minister talks with organisations, such as the College of Human Rights, to which I will also briefly comment in my speech. With your motion, do you advance on the outcome of those conversations? Or are you planning to postpone your request for a monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	No, I am glad that the Minister is talking to various interest groups who can provide input for this. I just want to have a closer look at the electoral process. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to take that into account in those talks. I think it is important to draw attention to the process itself. So that's my motion. I hope to find you on my side when it comes to improving and monitoring the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Raak. No? I thought you might want to talk after all. Mrs Den Boer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. Before the summer recess, we talked about our right to vote. At that time, I said that elections are our main feature of our representative democracy. D66 has also called for attention to be paid to the accessibility of our elections. I am pleased that the Minister is taking great steps in terms of the physical accessibility of voting rooms. By 2019, all voting rooms should be accessible to people with disabilities. That's a nice step forward. D66 also welcomes the fact that the Minister is discussing the possibility for a member of the polling bureau to assist the mentally handicapped in voting. I would like to ask the Minister the following. Is this one conversation and is this with the Election Council and the Human Rights College or with other organisations as well? Does the Minister have specific questions or concerns that she wants answered? I am, of course, looking forward to her answers to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motion from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. I'll take a look at the minister. We have two motions and a few more questions. I note that the Minister is able to respond directly. Thank you very much for that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have been able to discuss this issue at length in the AA. Since a number of things have already been very widely exchanged and some of them have been repeated here, I shall now confine myself to answering the questions and addressing the two motions. Mrs Den Boer of D66 had a question about the talks with organisations. It concerns a whole range of organisations that are committed to the interests of people with physical or mental disabilities, such as the Human Rights College, foundations, associations and disability care. It's a lot of organizations, so it's very broad. For example, the VNG and the Election Council are also immediately involved. The suggestion made about helping people with mental disabilities by members of the polling station is being explored. Of course, it's about more questions than just this. We're pulling that pretty wide. Above all, we listen very carefully to the wishes and suggestions of these organisations, because they undoubtedly have very good ideas about them. So a broad conversation with a wide range of questions. This is in response to Mrs Den Boer's question. The other two issues I think are best dealt with by responding to the motions. Mr Koopmans has already asked for electronic voting on behalf of the VVD on a regular basis. He has now tabled a motion which deals with two aspects: both counting and voting. It's good to break up those two things all the time. Mr Van Raak rightly said that we are actually going a little further than just investigating whether we can. We are actually saying that electronic counting is something we want to go to; and I want to take the first steps for that. So I didn't announce a new survey of counting either. I have actually announced that I intend to make proposals to the Chamber for a new ballot to be counted electronically. So that really goes a step further. I have also said that I think it is important to discuss this with your Chamber, so that there is broad support for such a new ballot. The electronic counting must of course also be completely reliable and safe. We can take advantage of the findings of the Van Beek Commission and also the Prins Expert Group. The specifications contained therein are the starting point for this. Then the electronic voting. That's actually the second part of the motion. Indeed, at the request of the VVD, I promised in July that I would be happy to update the costs. What I understand from the motion is that Mr Koopmans wants to broaden that overview, which update, to not only costs, but also reliability and security. I am prepared to get that straight, but I do not see that as a new investigation. I think we've already done a very good job. I mention once again the Van Beek Committee, but there has also been a committee called Korthals Altes, and I mentioned the Prins Expert Group. So that's what's there. They have done good and thorough work. These are independent experts who have really studied the matter very well. I would be happy to get that straight and, where relevant, to update it as well. Someone just said the report shouldn't end up in a drawer. The last thing I want is for the Van Beek Committee report to end up in a drawer. So it's not there either. Mr President, before I give a ruling on the motion, perhaps I should wait for the interruptions. No? Well, if Mr Koopmans and Mrs Özütok, who I understand is also in favour of this motion, could agree with this explanation of the motion, I would imagine that I would leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u23	I'm looking at Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u24	Do I understand the Minister correctly that she is saying that she is going to look at the current state of the possibilities and what the associated costs are? And that is to see whether it can be done at acceptable cost and in a reliable way, yes or no? Do I understand the Minister correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr Koopmans will then be taking a few very big steps forward which we might one day be able to get out of. I have already said this in the letter I sent to the Chamber, which states that only the costs are not decisive. The primary reason for saying that the move to electronic voting is a step too far at the moment is that I really think it is very important that the voting process is not affected by us going to a new system. The advantage of the system we have, with the red pencil and the paper, is that at least there can be no digital influence of the process. That's crucial. I also think that everyone, and certainly Mr Koopmans, fully agrees with me. In addition, we know that electronic voting, not counting but voting, costs a great deal. So it's actually a list of themes: the reliability that really always comes first, the costs that we have to be and will be real about, keeping track of what changes, and the technology. All this is, of course, part of our decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u26	Very briefly, Mr Koopmans. I feel like we're repeating the AO, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u27	I just want to make sure that we are actually saying the same thing, namely that the Minister is going to see what the cost of a reliable system would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u28	Based on the information we already have, so without reopening expensive investigations, I'm willing to update it. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Van Raak, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u30	I understand Mr Koopmans, because of course he is a visionary. But I'm afraid he'll get the same reports we had a few years ago. So I understand the Minister's commitment. About the counting and the bill. The previous minister has laid down a law here that the Chamber has said no to. Now the Minister comes up with a new law. I would like to say that I attach particular importance to the fact that the symbols of the parties and the colors and so on come up with them. I learned that in the Antilles, in the islands. I think that will also work very well in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u31	I will make this point by Mr Van Raak very clear. Maybe he'll pick the color red. Of course, he jumps out; I can also imagine something about that. I understand. He says we've already had experience with it on the islands. We will, of course, take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u32	My second question is about counting. When that device is there and when we've paid for it, I don't know. What strikes me, even before the upcoming elections, is that people sit at the polling station all day long, all cooked up at the end, with all those cups of coffee. They'll have to start counting. We have also seen the footage, with lots of ballots everywhere that lie somewhere in the municipality. Of course, that contains all the ingredients for errors: dead tired people deep into the night with piles of paperwork. So isn't it possible to agree with the congregations that you have people sitting at the polling station and people who come to count fresh and cheerful at night and who haven't been done all day?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr Van Raak made this point during the AO too, if I remember correctly, because at that time we had a little debate on the word 'equipped'. I said that the members of the polls should be well equipped in all kinds of ways, both physically and physically. One of the solutions is of course what is now being experimented with. Looks like that's working. That's the central count, because then you tear it apart. Part of the counting only happens later, in one place, indeed by other or at least by meanwhile equipped people. I think that is a very real point from Mr Van Raak. Then I'd like to move on to the second motion, in part No. Mrs Özütok on accessibility. This is really an important point, because we want to improve accessibility. So there will also be the requirement for all polling stations to be accessible. The only thing I would like to say to Mrs Özütok on the occasion of her motion is that I would like to watch for a great deal of bureaucracy. Where it's necessary, of course, you always have to do it. On the other hand, I do have a lot of confidence in the direction we have now taken with that accessibility. We are also doing so under the umbrella of the UN Convention on Accessibility, under the coordination of the VWS Minister. So I would prefer to see that we also monitor this accessibility as much as possible in the context of what we are doing at all in order to ensure that we have the implementation of the UN Convention in good shape in the Netherlands. So not another separate line of monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u34	You have a question, Mrs Özutuk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u35	Yes. I think it is extremely important that the Minister also takes the issue of accessibility so seriously. Thank you for that. I also think it is important that, without making it too complicated and bureaucratic, we pay attention to the process. That is actually more what I wanted to do with this motion. I'd like to hear from the Minister what her appreciation of my motion is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u36	If I understand Mrs Özütok correctly, we are actually in agreement. We want this accessibility to be improved. We also want the finger on the wrist, of course, whether it is done to a sufficient extent. I see opportunities to do so under the umbrella of progress in the implementation of the UN Convention. With that explanation, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u37	This motion, looking at Mrs Özütok, receives a ruling from the Chamber. Then we've come to the end of this VAO. I thank the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u38	I suspend for a few moments and then we continue with the Law adjustment indexation own contribution rent supplement.
