ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the debate on soldiers who need to buy their own clothes. Eight speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mrs Diks from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. She has four minutes' speaking time. The same applies to the other political groups which have taken part in this debate. I wanted to agree with you that we are doing interruptions in two; interruptions are brief questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u2	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I just had to turn the letter up a little bit. I'd like to admit that in public. Mr. Chairman. In September we were confronted with the idea that soldiers should go to the sports store themselves to buy part of their winter equipment there just before their training broadcast to the mountains in Norway. I thought that was so amazing that I immediately requested a debate, and that is what we are talking about today. As far as I'm concerned, it's about so much more at the same time. This is not the first time that Defence has failed in its personnel policy, and unfortunately it will not be the last time either. In the past year we have seen too many deficiencies in physical and social security, too many incidents and too much downright clumsy. Whether it's about exposing employees to chromium-6, failing to follow up on reports of abuse, the insecurity of ammunition and shooting rifles, soldiers forced to stay in hotels because barracks are uninhabitable or rats walk through the cafeteria. Defense doesn't seem to be able to get things in order. If there's an adequate response, it's a reaction per incident. I do not see that as a guarantee of improvement in the future. During the Bison Drawsko exercise in Poland last year there were already 35 cases of frostbite injuries in the military, due to exposure to cold. The fact that it occurs to you that it is an option to broadcast soldiers with such temperatures without ordering the right clothes in time is, as far as I am concerned, slowly exemplary for how Defense has dealt with its staff in recent years. In this particular case, why could not Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU have been applied for an exception to the procurement rules, in conjunction with the so-called Fast Track Procurement? I really do not understand that, especially since after great pressure from the Chamber it turned out to be possible. That is the past as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Our patience is running out. The Secretary of State joined the Ministry at the end of last year with probably as a focus problems with ammunition security, but after that the situation actually exploded and the Chamber and the rulers were confronted with one incident after another. No one has been held to the impossible, so GroenLinks too has calmly waited for the Defence Note and was satisfied when the focus was on the people. But, Mr. President, after that, the Secretary of State has had time to clean up the mess with the Defense Department, if I may say disrespectfully. I found when she took office that she was of good will to do it right. I sincerely believe that she still is today, but at the same time the results are still really insufficient. The operation and security of our military are simply not sufficiently secure, whereas this should be our first, our second and our third priority at the moment. That giant recovery operation that's needed in the Defense Department requires us to keep an overview, to direct and to get a grip. This cannot be achieved without aligning and integrating all initiatives, plans of action, action plans and reports. That cannot be done without proper control of the whole. Does the Secretary of State share this idea? Is it prepared to combine all the initiatives that are currently under way and are still under way in a single major recovery project, whether they involve action plans for a safe Defence Organisation, ammunition security, the visitation committee, the establishment of the Security Directorate, the Security Inspectorate, real estate etc. etc.? In the meantime, I have proposed to my colleagues in the Defence Committee that the Chamber should play a greater role in this by identifying this as a major project. I have good hope that enhanced supervision by the Chamber will ensure that the accumulation of scandals and incidents in the Defense Department can be stopped soon and that the Chamber and Cabinet together put the shoulder to this recovery operation and work on the trust of Defence personnel in the employer through more direction and less bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u4	Quite a few things are mentioned. On the other hand, you can also say that it is precisely through the approach of the Secretary of State and the Minister that things are emerging and being addressed. I am still looking at Mr Diks' proposal, because if you say that all these things need to be served in conjunction and put together, you probably need to talk about them twice. I believe that we are already doing so, in terms of the budget and in terms of accountability. I think we'll be talking about everything in terms of defence in conjunction, so what does Mrs. Diks want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u5	If it were so simple that integrity arose because MPs talked about something, then this country would probably look very different. I see there are a lot of plans. I just mentioned some of them, and they weren't even all of them. There are a lot of plans: plans of approach, plans on ammunition security and you name it all. After a year and a half in this committee, I am genuinely afraid that the people involved in clothing will look at clothing, that people who are concerned with the safety of the barracks will look at the barracks, and so I can give an endless line of examples, but that all these plans of approach and implementation will not actually come together. I believe that a major project could be set up for this purpose. Maybe it shouldn't be called "big project," but different. It's possible. I don't care about the citation. It's just that someone's gonna be in charge somewhere, because I just don't see that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u6	Finalizing, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u7	One concern on my part is that we are going to ask for a lot of reports. There'll be a bump of paperwork coming up. We then put a very large group of people who should be responsible for and engaged in execution, with the spade in the ground, which they are doing well now, behind the PC again to generate some paper. The Chamber has to read a few thousand pieces and we have another AO about it. I don't think that's the answer, but maybe I'm wrong about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u8	Yeah, you're wrong, but I think it's nice that you're considering my workload, which, by the way, is similar to yours. I find that positive in itself, but that is not at all what I mean. It is not my intention to generate more work or to produce more paper together. That's not what I'm after. I am sure that these plans will be looked at in one place, from one point, if I may put it that way; that is metaphorical, and that the question is asked: does this really all have anything to do with each other? After a year and a half on that committee, I see a lot of these things being done very well. I would like to add that I have every admiration for the people working in the Ministry of Defence, but also elsewhere within the organisation. I see that every time they do so, but I am concerned about how we ensure that all these projects are handled much more comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u9	We have had the debate on this question in the Chamber before, namely in response to the plan of action on physical and social security. We then looked at how we can ensure that we also see that the measures are ultimately implemented in practice. The Chamber has chosen to set up a visitation committee. Why isn't that enough for Mrs. Diks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u10	Because I'm gradually seeing that things are just not in order. Personally, I find it quite strange that Members of Parliament are now having a debate on military winter coats, that they should talk about that. Well, then, as far as I'm concerned, you're way out of business. You shouldn't. I see things are just not in order. For me, that story of those coats was actually the drop that made the bucket run over. If you've seen that coming two years in advance, how hard can it be, I'd almost say. If you haven't done that already, what the hell is going on with all the other plans running? As far as I am concerned, it is not just a question of safety, it is a matter for the Committee on Visitation, and I think it is a very good job to do this, but an integral picture of the operation of the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u11	Mrs. Bruins Slot, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u12	But that's our standard job as a Member of Parliament, isn't it? We control the rulers for what they do. Then we're talking about reporting the defense equipment projects. Then we're talking about the personnel reports we get, the technical briefings we keep and the work visits we make. Defence must also have time to actually do the work in practice. Why does Mrs Diks want to build control when we have really taken a firm step with the Committee on Visitation as a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u13	But the visitation committee, however much I appreciate for that, is again a factor in a Defence Organization that has fallen into disarray. That visitation committee isn't gonna look at everything. You can of course say: as MPs, we are all about everything, so why don't we do everything? But of course it doesn't work like that in a budget; you know that as well as I do. I thought we'd sit down next week, or when's it gonna be. And then one of them takes this out and the other one takes it out. In fact, we will be operating exactly like the Defence Organization. A few people are very busy with all kinds of things, and I really see too little grip and too little control. Again, I found this story about those jackets an example of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u14	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Diks. Then we go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's Mr. Christmas of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u15	I just answered a question from the Secretary of State, Chairman. I hope that did not go away from my speaking time. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few weeks and even today, Dutch soldiers in Norway have contributed more than their share during Trident Juncture, the biggest NATO exercise since the end of the Cold War. They do this together with colleagues from 30 other countries. I see and I read that others are impressed by the Dutch commitment there, and so am I. That's why it's so harsh that it's only one hair that our people had before travelling to Norway had to stop by the Perry Sport to buy a thick coat. That brought back the front page of all the newspapers a month and a half, and rightly so. This was not a trip to the Caribbean, for which you can buy yourself a swimsuit, but a big exercise on schedule for at least two years in Norway at temperatures that can go down to the -30°C. That was embarrassing, no more and no less. Eventually, under pressure from the media and Chamber, Defense managed to adjust a sleeve and the necessary clothing was still purchased in fast-track shipping. Then why couldn't I? I'm asking the Secretary of State. Which unknown button has been pressed so far, and by whom? How much did that cost? And why wasn't that button pressed before? Perhaps some bureaucratic interlayers have been skipped, reducing the supply lines? And if that's the case, it doesn't taste like it anymore, I'll ask the Secretary of State. We read that this rapid action may also have violated some of the procurement rules, perhaps. Of course, that has to be figured out. But I can justify it. Emergency breaks the law. As far as I am concerned, the most important thing to study is how we can deal with these rules more conveniently, what extra space they may offer, which is not yet being used sufficiently, and what space others take and also get to get the best equipment in time with the men and women of our armed forces. 'Cause that's what they deserve. When this is necessary, having access to good equipment and equipment is part of the important work our people do in the field and at the barracks. This is also part of the appreciation and respect they deserve. Perhaps the Secretary of State may have heard of it today, who will provide all our marines with syrup waffles in a few days. Mr. Chairman. We all know that, in addition to all the other problems, there are considerable staff shortages, especially with regard to the material support service. How big is this deficit at the moment, and what are its concrete consequences? What role has this shortage of people played, for example, in this clothing issue, but also in purchasing and acquiring other items? Is everything in order now, or does it also apply here that it has to get worse before the weather gets better? If that is the case, what is the next thing that awaits us, especially the men and women of the Defense Department? Mr. Chairman. This was yet another incident in a long line. I alone have been in Question Time three times in recent months. It's about incidents that all of them have to do with the culture of the Defense Department. I have said it before: I have never talked about culture as often as I have since I became the spokesman for the defence sector. It is a culture that has many aspects. One of them is the so-called can-domeality. It is asked of the people of Defense, but perhaps it also needs to be shown more often by the people of Defense, in the sense of: we will arrange that for you, left or right. They deserve that. It is more than necessary to win back their confidence in their own organization step by step. Finally, Mr President. This debate was actually scheduled for last week. I don't know if you remember what the weather was like back then, but then it really blew. I arrived here, despite my umbrella, soaking wet and was welcomed as always by the people of the Royal Marechaussee, who are here to guard our safety. When you talk to those people, it turns out that in such weather they can do nothing but hide a few meters away or get soaked in water. According to the information I got from the people themselves, they don't even have a rain jacket or anything. If that's the case, how does the Secretary of State feel about that? Can't she do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u17	Mr. Chairman. Today is the last day of the real exercise in Norway, the biggest NATO exercise since the Cold War: Trident Juncture. We are talking about 50,000 soldiers and as the Netherlands we are involved with 2,200 soldiers, and with four ships, three helicopters, a tanker plane and hundreds of combat and transport vehicles. It's a strong commitment from our armed forces, and the CDA is proud of it. But it is precisely with such an effort, and also in Norway, that it is important that our soldiers are well equipped. Prior to that exercise, the Defense Department proved unable to provide the right clothes. The solution for 1,000 soldiers was: go shopping yourself. That's impossible for a professional organization. It just needs to be in order. The fuss in this Chamber was also great, even at the CDA. Mrs. Diks brought it up, too. Why? This isn't the first incident. It also went wrong in the army exercise Bison Drawsko in Poland. It also didn't go well with Enhanced Forward Presence in Lithuania, due to a lack of winter clothing. More than 70 soldiers suffered cold injuries, including frostbites. Military personnel must be able to trust that they have good and safe equipment and that not everything is glued together with duct tape. How is it that these risks are not better and anticipated before, is my question to the Secretary of State. In the end, this Secretary of State managed to solve the problem within a week. That has been a good action of hers, but it raises the question as to why it has not been possible in the ten months before. For me it's still a bit covered in mists where exactly the leak is. The CDA had asked the written question to the Secretary of State whether there are legal barriers, and whether it is true that there are actually no legal barriers, because you may deviate from the procurement obligation in compelling and unexpected circumstances. We also had oral Question Time with this Secretary of State earlier. The Secretary of State indicated on the oral questions that the army had started to use the clothing acquisition too late. But then the answers to the written questions later showed that the army had already started this by the end of 2017 and that clothing company KPU had already started things in early 2018. Then why isn't nine months enough to do this? That's what I'm really wondering. During oral Question Time, the Secretary of State also said that the clothing company was already engaged in a tender, which was accompanied by an additional request from the army, and that the clothing company said that it was not fitable in the current tender. Can the Secretary of State explain this? Because I just said that the KPU, the clothing company, had started the acquisition in early 2018. I thought you could've just done that. Mr. Chairman. It remains a thorn in the eyes of the CDA that the responsibilities and powers of commanders are so fragmentedly organised. A commander has to do a lot, but he can't do much. Apparently, there is an escalation procedure. This escalation procedure has not been properly applied, and it remains a little vague and bureaucratic for me. What is this escalation procedure and how would it work in practice? And who was supposed to escalate who in this case? It's still not clear, even after last Monday. Defence has set up an intervention team to intervene in situations similar to the absence of winter coats and to listen to people and to know exactly what is wrong. Of course, that's good in itself, isn't it? Act quickly on the signals within the organization. But when you have to put that kind of thing in order to keep an organization running, perhaps there is a structural problem underneath, so I ask the Secretary of State. Isn't that intervention team actually some kind of symptom control? My hope, therefore, as a CDA, is that this intervention team is truly temporary and that the underlying causes are quickly clear and are being addressed quickly. Would the Secretary of State want to keep the Chamber informed of what bigger problems the intervention team has dealt with and how they have solved them? It therefore does not need to be individual cases, but more on the broad measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u18	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. I call on Mr Bosman, member of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u19	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this call: a call to action. I have been standing here on the oral questions on clothing for the exercise in Norway. We've already received a lot of answers in letters. It's been a while. In addition, we have also had an extensive legislative consultation on Defence Material, in which I have been able to bring forward a lot of issues. The essence of the problem is acquisition. How do we deal with acquisition? What is the problem with this acquisition? Where do we see speed and where do we see no speed? I have received a lot of answers from the Secretary of State, which I am very pleased with. I do have one more question. The State Secretary's reply to the possible breach of the procurement rules was that it could be in breach of internal rules, whereby the Audit Service Rijk or the General Court could have a signal function. Now my question is, what are those extra rules? If we are going to lay down additional rules internally, I can imagine that we are going to get rid of the internal rules. I think there's enough procurement rules to keep you to the law. Perhaps we should stop making all kinds of extra rules internally, because then you will not be touched by the ADR or by the General Court. Then we've had that again, and it might speed up the process. I would also like to know which rules we still need or can adapt to speed up, simplify and improve these types of processes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. A question from Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u21	Just because you can, Mr. Chairman. Just now we've been talking a little bit about... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Do you have the impression that the Defense Organization is in control?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u22	I'm talking to the Secretary of State, and I think the Secretary of State is fine in control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u23	If Mr Bosman sees ten to twelve incidents, we say incidents, but we mean, of course, major accidents in a year, then I think the Secretary of State is in control of the apparatus, but it is the question of how the defence apparatus works as such. What we hear now is that the top wants to move, that wants to move the workfloor, but that in between it sits in the clay layer, as it is often called........................................................................................................................................................................................... Ballistic foam I called it. You shoot something in and it doesn't come out. The question is, how are we all going to do that? I take the view that this is a joint effort. I don't want you-bake. I want to stand for it together. How does Mr. Bosman look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u24	First of all, I don't want to talk about ten major accidents. It's been incidents where we have to ask ourselves if they couldn't have been solved better. Now there are discussions on how this could be done and who should be doing it. I see here a Secretary of State who is working hard to streamline and improve such processes, who wants to inform the Court and who wants to be as transparent as possible. A Security Department has been set up and the Defence Security Organization has been set up. There's gonna be a visitation committee. All things that allow you to say: there is a serious look at what is going on in processes that are a possible risk to the safety of personnel. This is gonna get picked up, too. So I don't think it's entirely fair to paint a picture here right now as if the Secretary of State weren't in control and all sorts of things are going wrong. A lot of processes are also going very well. Let's put that first. I call Trident Juncture. We see that all these men and women are now working hard with a huge exercise and that is going really well. There is serious respect for what the Netherlands puts on the mat there. So I'd be a little reluctant about that. Then about Mrs Diks' concern that we still have to look together at what the Secretary of State and the Minister are doing. I welcome the reports that come along and we regularly talk to the Visitation Commission or the Safety Inspector. That all sounds fantastic to me. For the rest, I think we should be very careful and cautious with all kinds of reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u25	Very briefly finishing. We'll do the interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u26	Oh, yeah. But it wasn't that long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u27	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u28	The problem is that all these things are in themselves about details. I have just said it myself: the coats are basically a detail and we should not have to talk about them here. But the effect of all these incidents is that we put even more pressure on the loyalty that employees have towards the organization. Something goes wrong again: then a rat walks through the kitchen and you have to sleep in a hotel. It's all ridiculous stuff. I myself have a very strong feeling that we are slowly going to be able to say a bit pathetic? The elasticity of loyalty is stretching so far that it's about to explode. I believe that the Chamber will take action, and that is why we should not dismiss this as ostrich by saying that it will be resolved by incident. No, the foundation of the armed forces has been crumbled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u29	Mr. Bosman is being asked for a short response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u30	Mrs Diks is of course right to ask why we are debating here, but Mrs Diks has requested the debate. That's kind of weird in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u31	Yes. That's a fact, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u32	Let me just mention this observation. I agree with Mrs Diks, and that is why my discussion is not about the coat, but about procurement, about acquisition. How do we deal with that? How can we all take care of that? I think that's important, too. Does the Secretary of State need an adaptation of the legislation, does it need the legislator? That's us. Can we do something in there? How are the streamlining in the process? Is that what she's worried about? Does it need support from the Chamber? I'm absolutely committed to that, and I'm committed to that. I think that's wise, and I think the loyalty of the Defense Department is absolutely important. We must wholeheartedly support them, and I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u33	When I hear Mr Bosman's story, I think he's handling it quite easily: looking internally at what it's gonna be, changing the rules. This is another incident. Two soldiers were killed in Mali. A minister has been sent home, your own partymate. You've been a soldier yourself. When I see how easy this is for you! And at the same time, the same cabinet sends coats to Syria. As an ex-military, you are at least touched by the fact that your own minister sends money to terrorists, while your former colleagues do not even have coats and are confronted with all these incidents! You must be more concerned about this than this story that needs to change internally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u34	Sometimes you need to think about who your coalition partner is. Who's your partner? Sometimes things go wrong is a serious problem. We now see this in Turkey, for example. Turkey is a NATO partner but is going to buy Russian equipment. That's weird, that's special. You think it's partners you can trust and who you can make agreements with, but then a country like Turkey, member of NATO, is going to purchase Russian equipment. That's bizarre, of course. Those are absolutely things I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u35	This is exactly how it goes in this room. At the moment when a coalition MP is having a hard time, he must draw the Turkish map. With that, he covers the mistake of his own cabinet giving coats to terrorists. In recent years, there has been 25 million euros under your responsibility and with your support...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u36	Mr. Öztürk...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u37	That money goes to terrorists!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u38	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u39	What are you gonna tell me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u40	Mr. Öztürk, you're going to come to a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u41	Sure. What is Mr Bosman going to tell his former colleagues instead of the Turkey story? Over and over again, the VVD has failed. What's he gonna say now? Is he ashamed of the VVD's policy over the past year? Does he feel like, guys, we failed, forgive us, we're gonna do better? Or does he have the feeling that we are looking at Turkey and if things go wrong there, am I trying to cover this up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u42	If you look at my ex-colleagues, the air force kites, you can see that they are extremely worried about the S-400 Turkey wants to buy, in relation to the F-35. That's a serious risk, that's a serious threat, and we should all be seriously angry about that. I notice that Mr Öztürk has less difficulty with this, but I know that my former colleagues in the kites are seriously concerned about this. If you think you're standing up for the men and women of the armed forces, then Mr Öztürk should stand up on stage here and say: hey, that can't be true, a NATO coalition partner buying Russian equipment and threatening our F-35 pilots, that's a disgrace, a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u43	Mr Öztürk, you come to a brief closing question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u44	Sure. I think it's an embarrassing display. If an ex-military doesn't have a good story and only starts complaining about Turkey, he actually says: we're failing, but I have to cover it up. There are several countries that buy Russian material, but that is not the discussion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u45	What NATO partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u46	Greece. We're talking about coats the military didn't get. We're talking about two rejected bombs from our ally America, which killed our military, which has now made your minister Iraq's envoy. That's what we're talking about. Dare to admit that the VVD policy has failed in recent years. Say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u47	I understand that Mr Öztürk finds it difficult to name the Turkish threat with Russian equipment, but I think it is a serious threat. I'm really sorry. Know that the VVD is seriously concerned about what is happening within the armed forces. That is why we are in favour of supporting the Minister and the Secretary of State in what they need. If that is necessary through legislation or in a physical or mental sense, we will certainly do so. I'm gonna keep doing that seriously. I see we're spending an extra 1.5 billion dollars on defense. I think that's excellent. We're on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u48	There is a question from Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u49	Mr President, this is an embarrassing display, isn't it? Mr Öztürk is quite right to ask a question. It's absurd, it's outrageous what happened. We see the VVD leadership sending coats to terrorists in Syria, while our own soldiers don't get good coats. We see that two soldiers have died from rejected bombs that sent them to Mali. And then Mr Bosman starts attacking Öztürk with a theme that has absolutely nothing to do with it. This is a really embarrassing show!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u50	I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u51	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u52	Can you respond to the point that Öztürk made and that I make? What do you say to your former colleagues? Aren't you deeply ashamed of the VVD policy? Aren't you deeply ashamed of your own party's policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u53	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u55	Shame!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u56	I go to the next speaker from the Chamber: Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u57	Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks there has been much to do about the clothing and equipment of military personnel. Military men had to buy their own coats. Commandos were sent out with helmets that, in our view, weren't good either, according to the coverage. Screen jackets were well over the expiry date. Those are undesirable things you can't expect from a professional defense organization. How is this possible? The cabinet invests more than 1.5 billion euros in defence, with the top priority being to put the foundation in order. The base, Mr. Chairman. So I have a lot of questions. How is it possible for the Defence Department to start planning an exercise in 2015 and that the need for cold weather equipment will not be raised until the end of 2017? Why is action not taken until the Corps Commando reports that the bullet-proof vests are not good? Why are our military first saddled with the purchase of their own coats, and then hear that, by means of an escalation in the procurement procedure, coats can still be delivered by the Defense Department? How can the Ministry of Defence, with a budget of more than 10 billion, not provide our military for an international NATO exercise in good time with the right clothing and equipment? There was a postage of gloves after freezing during the practice in Poland. There was a return of the coats in Norway. There's huge investment in Defense, just to get the base in order. Our men and women in the Defense Department deserve the trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u58	I also heard Mrs Belhaj talk about this escalation. What does this escalation mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u59	Well, that's very special. I have the same question as Mrs Bruins Slot. I imagine something's not going well somewhere, and then you escalate. But it's a mystery. That is why I welcome your question. Again, Secretary of State, I have all kinds of footage of escalating. But we're just really curious. So that's what I'm sharing. But I do find it an honor that Mrs. Bruins Slot thinks I do. That's always good. Mr. Chairman. Besides, as an employer, the Department of Defense has a responsibility and duty to equip our boys and girls well. I can trust that this is a condition for any exercise or mission. Over and over again, Defense seems to be overwhelmed by all kinds of incidents. Then I wonder if it's not starting to be a pattern. The price for all these incidents is paid with the trust of the staff and the credibility of the organisation. Will the Secretary of State guarantee us that such situations will not occur again? Let me also say that Rome was not built in one day. I really understand that we come a long way after all these years of austerity. But this cabinet has already entered the second year and we are now billions of additional investments. The Secretary of State has announced a number of measures. How is she going to inform us, the Chamber, about the progress? How can the Chamber trust that the next scheduled exercise, mission or even training course will be well equipped with the clothing and equipment of our people in the Defense Department? How can I be sure that the findings of the rigged Intervention Team can be followed up? Last Monday, at the WHO Material, I said a few things about this and tabled a motion. In this I ask that we finally come up with the sharing of planning and execution progress of the centrally acquire and deliver clothing and equipment. In this way we can also test as a Chamber when something happens and then we can indeed prevent us from standing here every week talking about any piece of clothing equipment. In that motion I also made that I consider it important to report to the Chamber on how the problems of clothing and equipment are handled, as reported to the Intervention Team, to the level to be chosen. Mrs Bruins Slot just referred to that as well. Is there an interruption, or do you just want to speak yourself, Mr Öztürk? Finally, Mr President. It sounds a bit like it's funny, but of course it isn't. As long as we can still have debates here on why people do not get their equipment delivered, we are lucky. It gets much worse when people don't have to do their job with the right material and something bad happens. I sincerely hope that we are not going to see it. That is why I hope for many answers from the Secretary of State, including the motion we have tabled, which will reassure us for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u60	Thank you. I see that there is still a question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u61	When I hear the D66 spokesperson, I hear hope. She has a lot of questions. She's understanding. It sounds like: we'll meet again at the next incident and then we'll discuss it again. But what do you say to the military? Simply, if you find it on your work visit, when they say that our coats have gone to the terrorists, because Saint Nikolaos of Dam has handed out our coats in Syria, and for that the cabinet in which you participate is responsible. What do you say? What do you say to those people who say they're in the cold and haven't had a decent salary and no decent material for years? And then 25 million euros goes to terrorists!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u62	In that order, they often don't ask me those questions. But maybe someday I'm gonna run into that person. Of course, I find it a bit an insult that you call me very kind and polite, while I try very hard to be very clear and clear from time to time about the fact that this absolutely cannot be done. What I do, and have done over the past two and a half years or almost three years, is to be consistently present at meetings, consistently check the things people report to me at the Secretary of State, consistently report things, consistently ask written questions, consistently ask oral questions and be present in plenary debates. And that's why I filed a motion. I thought I could report incidents every time, but it's just time we got a broader report on exactly when the DOD makes orders. Because then we can say to the Secretary of State: wait a minute, on your own schedule it said it would be there in March, but I see in June that it is not there. Minister, why don't you tell me why it's not here? That's a smarter way of doing politics than standing here every week and addressing what people say, because it's my impression that you won't help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u63	A brief final question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u64	Consistently present at meetings, in plenary and so on: is that the answer? The military are asking for action. When is the terrorist financing gonna stop? Can you promise me as a D66 chamber member or indicate that you will do everything in your power to do so? At present, there may also be funding somewhere in the world. We don't know. We have to look at Nieuwsuur every now and then or read Trouw to hear what our cabinet does with our pennies, with our taxpayers' money. Can you assure me that under your support to the cabinet, no money will go to terrorists in other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u65	This is quite a complicated question, because I see us as colleagues. We're both doing the same job. We control the government and the extent to which it does or does not do its job. And okay, I've got an extra roll because I need to check to what extent they're sticking to the coalition agreements. But that's just a little bit, and that's not about this. I can see we're working together here. I understand from your words that you see it this way: the moment we stop sending these clothes to Syria, it will be safer for the Dutch armed forces. I find that interesting, because I'm an open person. I wonder how you see it exactly with the clothes we delivered there. Could it have actually been delivered in Norway? What do you know that I don't?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u66	Mr President, I have received a clear question and I would like to be able to answer it. That's how it works here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u67	No. That's not how we're gonna do it. You're gonna get the floor, but behind the cathedral, because I'm gonna give you the floor for your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u68	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u69	No, it's not like...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u70	It's true that at the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u71	... questions are being asked from the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u72	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I was addressed personally and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u73	No, we're not gonna do that. I'm going to give you the floor behind the cathedral. Mrs Belhaj, I think you came to a conclusion. Or isn't that the case yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u74	Mr President, I always like to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u75	Well, you'll have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u76	So here's where I'm gonna wrap it up. But I promise Mr Öztürk that when he speaks I will put this question in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u77	Coalition's covering for each other!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u78	The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Öztürk of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u79	Mr. Chairman. Hassan's got my coat, said a soldier to me the other day. Of course, he was talking about the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, which he watched with pain. Saint Nikolaos of Dam handed out coats in Syria, also to terrorists, but our own soldiers were advised to buy their own coats. Shame on you, Mr. Chairman. Scandalous! Can we not use Nikolaos van Dam, former Special Envoy Syria, to arrange coats for our military and also for other items, because then we do not have to debate here every night? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State can't hide behind cuts anymore. Our military put their lives on the line. They deserve our respect. They deserve to be cherished. They deserve good stuff and safe clothes. The responsibility for this lies with the Defense Department. As an employer you should take care of the safety of your staff. As an employer, you do not send soldiers on foreign missions with worn equipment. Why doesn't the Secretary of State just do her duty of care? Does the Secretary of State consider this to be a good employer? Our starting point is that people who risk their lives for our safety, for the homeland, should not have to worry about the bills they have to pay at home. DENK is for a good reward from the Defense personnel. That's what we've always said. Stop spending money on expensive toys, expensive submarines, expensive F-35s. Stop serving the big countries. Invest in the safety of your own staff. Mr President, it is scandalous: Defence is unable to take care of its own personnel. Defense failed to take care of the security of the military in Mali. The security of military personnel is not sufficiently guaranteed in the Defense Department. The same conclusion was shared by the Van der Veer Committee this year. You'd think it would work out for an exercise in cold Norway. The planning for the exercise was already in 2015. But no, Defense fails again. Our soldiers had to buy their clothes themselves, because they didn't succeed in this in time. Why don't we learn lessons from the past, from all these incidents? Unbelievable. A donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice, but the Secretary of Defense does. Not once, not twice, no, repeatedly. Even a donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, this cabinet has made it a tradition: public services that do not function properly; say, "failure to do so." We have the incompetent IND. We have the fraud-prone UWV. We've got the blundering IRS. We also have the wandering Defense Department. What are you guys doing? Who does this cabinet serve? Does this cabinet serve the security of the people and the military, or does it serve the big countries because they promise nice jobs? Is it normal that a minister who had to resign because of her blunder should now be allowed to work as a UN representative in Iraq? Even later, we will see that a minister, or secretary of state, is rewarded for her blunder, just as with Minister for Foreign Affairs, I say "Hennis." She is now a UN representative in Iraq. She had to resign here because she screwed up. This is the culture internationally: the moment you serve the big countries, serve the big powers, you still get a job afterwards. That's the guarantee. Who serves our Secretary of State: the Dutch people or the big countries? That is the key question. My group once again calls on the Secretary of State to choose our military for our country. Don't be a donkey, be a hero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u80	Thank you. A question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u81	I heard the word "hero," so I thought, "I'm going forward." I thought: I am asking a question to my fellow Member, Mr President-in-Office, through you who he asked me. The question was: how do you not see giving stuff to others in relation to the stuff we give to our own soldiers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u82	You haven't been getting a salary increase for years as a soldier, you haven't been getting decent material for years, and you have to keep the story at home: I love this country, I love the Netherlands, I'm loyal, I'm loyal. Then you sit on the couch at night with your children and your wife or husband, and then you see Nieuwsuur. Then you see that a Saint Nikolaos van Dam, special envoy of the Netherlands, gives the money that belongs to them, to terrorists. How do you explain that, including morale? These people feel like I'm giving everything to the country, I'm committed. Then they look at Newshour, they read Faithful. They don't have a story at home anymore; that's my story. That is why I asked you, as a coalition partner, to make sure that the mistake made by the previous cabinet, with Koenders, by giving money to terrorists, does not happen anymore, because that will seriously damage the morale of our military. And that morale is very important in warfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Belhaj, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u84	I hear that Mr. Öztürk is an empathic person, that he can move into the people who get stomach pains, that he knows moral indignation, and that he can describe that well here in the Chamber. But I think the point is that we are translating this politically here. Those people look at you and think: yes, I actually agree with him. But then I say to these people: yes, but you can expect something from.I wanted to say "that guy".A parliamentarians? What political translation do you have? In fact, if you are honest, you have not answered my question either. That is why I am giving you another chance to answer the question I asked you, because I am really looking forward to what your solutions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u85	I've had a discussion with Mrs Belhaj about abdominal pain before. Remember? Then I told you that ISIS has no weapons factories, that ISIS and other terrorist organisations received funds from other countries. Remember? We shared that on Facebook and we got a lot of reactions to that. This point, that people do not get the material and the terrorists do, affects our military deeply. At a time when soldiers in high positions and the Secretary of State fail over and over again, they must make way for others who can do the job. Who do come up with answers so it doesn't happen. Those who don't make choices for 61 missions, because I hear from the military themselves that there are just too many missions. They tell me: we just can't handle it; we hope that our executives, our Secretary of State and our minister will stop those missions so that we can invest the money and time in material and other matters. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u87	That is why I say that the policy of the cabinet must change. If that doesn't change, there won't be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u88	Thank you. Mr. Bosman has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u89	Mr Öztürk is passionate: talking about security is essential. Now I know that the F-16 flyers, the future F-35 flyers, are worried about the S-400 Turkey is going to buy, in relation to possible F-35s that Turkey is going to buy. How does Mr Öztürk see the risks that our Dutch kites are going to run if Turkey buys an S-400, as NATO partner country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u90	First of all, I would like to ask the President what this debate is really called. What are we talking about today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u91	We're talking about soldiers who have to buy their own clothes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u92	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u93	And I notice that some members...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u94	...have a Turkey obsession!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u95	...you, Mr Öztürk, but also others...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u96	...can't let it be called Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u97	... involve a number of adjacent topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u98	Let go of Turkey! Let it go. If I'm here, there should be no Turkey here... Ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u99	I see a beautiful dive. Oh, I get it. A beautiful dive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u100	This is exactly why it goes wrong in the Netherlands. If mistakes are made, Turkey must always be brought back in. Stop it! We're talking about the coats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u101	Thank you. Mr. Öztürk, you had come to the end of your term. Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u102	I hear Mr Öztürk say in passing that I should put on a jacket. The work of my outfit will soon become clear. Mr. Chairman. It is now over a year since we spoke in this Chamber about the fatal accident with a defective mortar grenade in Mali, in which two Dutch soldiers, Kevin Roggeveld and Henry Hoving, were killed and a third was seriously injured. Covered in a non-functional OPS vest, I wanted to make it clear to this Chamber that the terrible accident in Mali was not on its own, but that the men and women within our armed forces are confronted with defective equipment every day. At best, they buy better clothes, shoes and so on. At worst, they die, like Henri and Kevin, because some buyer at Defense is buying old shit from Americans without testing the quality. The Americans had themselves included in the purchase contract that it was old shit. You can't do this anymore. That was our message back then. Minister Hennis resigned. Lessons would be taken from it. But in the months after the debate, our mailbox was filled with reports from soldiers who fully recognized themselves in our story and mentioned many new examples of ever-increasing, appalling conditions within the Dutch army. Today I'm in my shirt, just like our military. The new minister has not made sufficient efforts to improve their working conditions. During the past year, serious shortcomings were regularly revealed within the Ministry of Defence. From problems with food safety in army canteens, legionella outbreaks in barracks, to toilets and showers that don't work, bad Internet connections and again clothes that don't work. It's to piss off. Especially now 1,000 soldiers who would leave for an exercise in cold Norway, would have to go there without a coat. How did that happen? Well, according to the Secretary of State's letter, it was an exercise in an environment where it can sometimes be cold, but not on average in these months. What kind of fool doesn't understand that a mission to Norway will be cold at this time of year? The average weather temperatures show that too! Who are you, Mrs. Visser? What are you doing in this position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u103	No, no, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u104	What do you know about Defense and the needs of the military? Why are you appointed to watch over these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u105	No, Mr. Baudet, we're not doing this. I'll tell the members if they speak directly to each other, but I'll also say it when you address the cabinet. That's where the Secretary of State is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u106	Who's the Secretary of State? What is she doing in this position? Why is it appropriate to watch over what our soldiers need or do not need, to watch over what should be our country's most important priority: our immune system, our self-defense. A board member, I read on Wikipedia, from the Ministry of Finance, but now stationed at the Department of Defense, no doubt on the way to another cartel job. When offering the 2018 Defence Note to the Chamber in March of this year, the Minister said: "After decades of austerity, we are now turning the page permanently." What kind of metaphor is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u107	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u108	You have an interruption, Mr. Baudet, from Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u109	Mr President, as a parliamentarians, we all choose our own style and tone, but I really have difficulty attacking directors personally. It doesn't matter where you come from or what your resume is. You can criticize a secretary of state, ask questions and send them away, but is it really necessary to make it so personal with resumes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u110	Mrs Belhaj, that is very necessary. The incompetence of the figures who come up in the party cartel and mess around in all those ministries, with no knowledge of the facts and no knowledge of the practice, runs out and needs to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u111	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u112	Can I just hear Mr Baudet's résumé on defence? Because he's wearing huge pants without a coat. He's out of a lot of criticism, but he doesn't have a clue about defense. No clue! Can Mr Baudet explain to me what he knows about defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u113	I have not become a Minister of Defence, and if the Cabinet with the Forum for Democracy comes into force, we will put a professional military on Defence. I'm not gonna wear those pants, but I can see it when other people are incompetent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u114	Well, on what basis do you see that? On what basis does Mr Baudet see this, without the experience and knowledge that is so crucial for anyone who has to operate in the Department of Defence? I think that is very good, but I would like to hear it from Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u115	I think it's quite incompetence when you send soldiers out without proper OPS vests, when you send them out with mortars that explode the moment you use them in an exercise, when you send 1,000 soldiers to Norway at this time of the year without a coat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u117	I can give many more examples, Mr President, of all the reports we receive from military personnel in barracks who do not have a decent living environment, of legionella bacteria, as I mentioned, in showers, wifi that does not work, etc. etc. It's to become really hearndol of it. The Minister has now said: we are going to turn the page, finally we are going to turn the page. But what kind of metaphor is that? I looked into the eyes of Kevin Roggeveld's parents and relatives and Henry Hoving here in the Chamber. Let's turn the page. No, those weren't words I could have brought out of my throat. Let's turn the page. Where did you get that? In the coming years, the cabinet will gradually spend only EUR 1.5 billion per year on our defence equipment and our defence apparatus. That's structuralally too little. Forum aims to raise it to 2% of GDP. That's what the money's for. There is a budget surplus. The Secretary of State has to promise that she will do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has asked to suspend. We'll do that until 8:55.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u119	I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Chamber, too. A number of Members of Parliament have taken advantage of this debate not only to talk about cold weather clothing but also about where the Defence Organisation stands. I recognize that. In this sense, we come from a very special period, because Defence has a long time of less, namely 25 years less. That just has consequences for an organization. We can see that, too. We must come from very far and have had a number of incidents over the past period that show that our learning ability must also be increased. You yourself mentioned some of these incidents. I think it is important that lessons have been learned from incidents such as around the shooting range in Ossendrecht. The Van der Veer Committee has been set up. It has found that Defence must do more to be a safe organisation, both in terms of culture and in terms of culture, I know that Mr Kerstens is about to say: I have talked more about culture within Defence than outside, as well as how we set things up. We're working hard on that. The question was asked: what is happening in concrete terms? We have the Inspector-General for Security and the Security Directorate to ensure that we stay focused on security within our organisation, our military, because that's what we do it for. It's not gonna happen on its own. It's gonna take time. Unfortunately, you cannot achieve that with one magic and one day when you find out with each other that you have to come a long way. Mr. Chairman. The same goes for the clothes. In recent years, defence has focused on the main task number two: to promote the international legal order. All exercises, training and commitment were focused on the Middle East rather than on the first constitutional task: protecting the NATO territory. Our standards for ammunition, tents, stoves and clothing are based on that second main task. We have said that this must be changed, because we see that the threat is increasing. We see that NATO is making greater demands on us, not only financially but also on our capabilities. Mrs Bruins Slot already mentioned it: the appreciation expressed for the use of our military during Trident Juncture shows how professional our military are and what commitment they can make. Then it is also about the capacities we deliver. We are now looking at what is needed for the longer term for this first main task. We are making clear what is needed for this. For example, I have recently sent letters to the House about ammunition supplies, tents and stoves, but also clothing. We are dealing here with a short-term and a long-term perspective. When it comes to the short term, I have already indicated that the preparation for the Trident Juncture exercise did not go well. Preparations have been made for this, but it has been found too late that the orders were not delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u121	I hear the Secretary of State say that NATO is making an increasing appeal to us and our military. I hear from the military themselves: "61 missions. We can't take it anymore. You come back from a mission in Afghanistan after four months and then you have to go another four months." At some point, you just see a tension. Then I think: who do you listen to? Do you listen to the NATO alliance members, the great bosses, or do you listen to your own people and say to NATO: not for a few years, because we really need to put our affairs in order, first secure our soldiers, because too much has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u122	We are, for example, stopping the mission in Mali, precisely for this reason, precisely to ensure that the army can get back on its feet. We also stopped our efforts in Iraq, the Middle East, for a while, because we felt that our kites should be retrained. So we choose to stop if we can't. We also inform you about this, because you also ask: can the Defense still handle it, under what conditions and what does that mean? If we can't, we can't, and then we say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u123	The article 100 letters are flying to our ears. How many times have we been asked as a Chamber not to extend another mission? We've been in Afghanistan for decades. I hear former colleague Han ten Broeke say: we will be there for decades to come. Then how can you say: we listen to it? I don't think our soldiers are being listened to. I think we have just become a contractor of large countries that press a button and say: now get to work. How can we get rid of that? How can we, as an autonomous country, finally choose our own military, our own country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u124	We do that by saying no to things that can't. But we also have, and perhaps Mr Öztürk and I can find common ground in that, a first constitutional task: to protect our own Kingdom and the NATO alliance area. That word is simply in the Constitution. So if NATO calls on us in relation to our constitutional task, then we will also have to respond to it. Then there will have to be investment in that. To this end, the first 1.5 billion has now been deployed, which means that we are not yet at 2%, and that we also have to turn in a plan for the agreement towards 2024, but also if we cannot do things, we will be told no. We have done so in recent times, for example in Mali, but also in relation to our pilots in the Middle East. If the organization can't handle it, no should be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u125	Where does NATO stand in our Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u126	The first constitutional task of Defence is to protect the Kingdom and the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u127	Why don't we get the article? NATO is not mentioned anywhere in our Constitution. Even the Secretary of Defense doesn't know that. She doesn't know anything either, unbelievable!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u128	Mr. Chairman. I repeat: NATO alliance area. Mr Baudet may look it up. It is important that we look at what has gone wrong here. A number of Members have asked questions about what happened in the process of the tender on cold weather clothing. Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Bosman asked for that. It is important to note that at the end of last year there was a need for commitment in Lithuania. In addition, the request was made to build an additional stock that could be used, among other things, for the exercise in Norway. The experience gained earlier in 2017 in Poland with the exercise Bison Drawsko but also after that with eFP shows that there were more reports of cold weather injury; I did not invent that term, Mr President. That led me to decide to indicate an additional need in relation to the commitment in Norway. That need has been met and that tender has been launched, but in September it appeared that not all articles could be delivered in time, so not before the soldiers left. That is why the army chose to make an independent purchase. This happens more often when things have to be purchased at the last minute or when, for example, certain sizes are not available because people have an exceptional size. I've talked to you before about specific size combat boots. That is why we opted for an independent purchase and then, following what happened, indicated that we are going to see if we can do the procurement in a different way. Then we called suppliers to see if they could deliver. That's what happened. Nor do we know which procurement rules have been violated. Mr Bosman referred to that. To this end, the ADR will ultimately decide. Last Monday I also indicated that this is about, for example, the clustering of assignments. The current assessment is that it's all not that bad. There are internal rules on procurement and procurement management. To this end, the Audit Service, as well as the Court of Auditors, is keeping us on a tight leash; you also see the recommendations that are being made every year. One of the things we need to pay particular attention to is, for example, purchasing management and the applicable purchasing rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u129	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this clarification. Do I hear the Secretary of State say that internal rules have probably been violated, that the ADR also monitors internal rules and that Defence has actually imposed more stringent measures than is necessary in relation to what is stated in the Procurement Act 2012 and the Procurement Act in the field of defence and security?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u130	No, because I have indicated that the Procurement Act may also have been violated, but I cannot say for sure yet. For example, you should not normally ask by brand, because you should not discriminate. There is simply a question here: liver those brands. Under those rules, another supplier can say: hey, you're asking very specifically about that brand; you're in violation, so I object. You sigh, Mr President, but that is at the heart of the procurement rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u131	I'm not sighing, but Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u132	Through you, Mr. Chairman, I'll tell Mrs. Bruins Slot. Of course, you can't discriminate. That is what we mean by the possible infringement of procurement rules, but we are also putting this in a list for you. In addition, the internal rules apply. That has to do with committing an unlawful act in the event of its violation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u133	I almost feel sorry for the Secretary of State for having to deal with such ridiculous rules. At the moment when there are compelling and unexpected circumstances, can't you deviate for the safety of our military? If there are certain obstacles under the law, we as a Chamber should just know, because it has to be better than this. It cannot be that this kind of administrative gibberish leads to our military simply not having the right clothes in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u134	I think that was more of a call from Mrs Bruins Slot. And a heart cry, too, I think. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked about the escalation procedure. We have changed those as of 1 December 2017 to allow Operation Commanders to derogate from certain procurement rules, provided that they report this in advance from an operational need. In any case, it is an unlawful act, because you are entering into an unlawful tender. That is recorded and that is reported. That will also be reported to you, because the General Court reports that kind of thing to the Chamber if it exceeds a certain percentage. Since 1 December 2017, we have the procedure that this can be applied. Looking back at the knowledge of today, this might have worked at an earlier time in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u135	I actually asked a question in the previous interruption. I asked if the Secretary of State would like to inform us about this kind of obstructive regulation, so that we could at least implement the law better. The question that arises is: who should the commanders report it to when they decide to acquire themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u136	That has to be reported internally to the financial department and to the Audit Service Empire, because you are committing an unlawful act. You know that in the front and that's recorded. But that does not prevent us from then committing that illegality by using the procedure, but at least you have established it. You know you're breaking a rule, because the rule is that we're basically just following the law, but you're very aware that you're doing this from an operational necessity and you're recording it so that no one says later: did you happen to do this or did you do this in full consciousness?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u137	I believe that everyone will be in favour of fair procurement rules and for organising a level playing field as much as possible. This is a bit complex in the case of defence, because there are a number of allies, including in Europe, who fill it out in their own way, if I may describe it as just as kindly. Of course you also have the variant of the fast track procurement. Why wasn't that just used earlier in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u138	In this case, I can no longer say which considerations or choices have been made in the acquisition process. However, I have indicated that one of the things that we will look at with a view to the future, in the context of the question of what we can learn from this, is whether you can use the fast track procurement earlier. We will also look at the question of whether the escalation procedure can be increased from the operational necessity... Well, I'm not calling for any more injustices, but it would be good to raise more awareness about them, so that they can be used even if there is reason to do so. I have also heard your questions about Rule 346. This would not have helped because Article 346 is subject to three conditions. One is that what you want to buy is also on the 1958 list. That doesn't apply to clothes. At least that would not have helped here when it comes to speed. But fast track procurement can also be used for clothing and equipment. That is no reason not to use the instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u139	Mrs. Diks, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u140	Thanks for the answer. I shall now come to this point with a motion, because I think it is really important that we should be able to take action earlier in the organisation. That doesn't change the fact that this exercise was planned a long time ago. Of course, everything happens in two years and everything. In part, we've both been there, I'd say. But that does mean that my question whether we are actually in control, whether we are doing the right things at the right time, still stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u141	I have indicated to you where we come from and what we do for the longer term. For the longer term, we will launch a number of concrete calls for tenders for combat clothing and combat equipment. I have also recently informed you that we want to invest more in this. We are talking about 48 000 helmets, not only for the current military, but also for the reservists and military in training, new battle rites, new vests and new radio equipment. All this will be delivered from 2020. For the helmets, that's from the end of next year. We're gonna sign the contracts next year, too. If it is good and the supplier can deliver what we have agreed, it will be deported in the coming year. Until then, of course, individual things can still go wrong. That's always gonna be the case, because there's just no size or there's business that makes a supplier late. But I have indicated here that for an exercise of such magnitude, it simply needs to be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u142	I would like to ask a question about the remark that has just been made. The Secretary of State said if you want to deviate from the rules, you have to report it to the internal financial department. That sounded a bit strange to me, because I would rather be fond of thinking that the final responsible for DMO, which I think is the sg, is the level at which it can be decided to deviate. So how exactly does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u143	Previously, we had not placed this competence with the operation commanders. That is precisely what we have done. Previously, it was on that level. We said the operation commanders can do this. They just have to report it, because then you know there's an illegality. I know one thing: if I come up with an annual report next year with a lot of illegalities, you will tell me: Mr Secretary of State and Prime Minister, you are not in control, because you are not in control of your purchasing management. So it is not a reason not to do it then, but it is because it is reported and because the ADR also knows that the defence is deliberately different and that the illegality is in any case a matter of course, but also because of operational necessity: we think this is justified. Until 1 December 2017 or 1 January 2018, at least until the end of last year, that power was not yet with the operation commanders. So it has now been deposited with the operation commanders, also in order to respond to the call from your Chamber for more powers to be lower in the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u144	That sounds very logical, but the picture is: there's something very big going on, you want to be able to deviate from the rules, and then escalating is reporting to an internal financial department. That's why I'm asking for it. I can see the Secretary of State shaking no. So let me give her a chance to specify that, because it sounds like it's settled at that level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u145	No. By the escalation procedure, I mean that the Operation Commander, who is responsible for the army and who is responsible for the Navy, may say: "I want to make this tender from an operational point of view. I know it's not in accordance with the rules, but I'm gonna do it anyway. This means that an unlawful act is committed. I'll report that, and it'll be registered." It is precisely this responsibility that we are given the power to assume. They just didn't have one until last year. We have said that we think it is important that these commanders should have more powers, that they should no longer be at the centre and that this should only be at the level of the DMO or the Secretary-General. So this power has been delegated, so that more space is available when one says oneself: I have to, I see the necessity, and I think it is justified by the operational need that I do this. Only a report has to be made, which is the only thing I mentioned so that the Audit Service can report this when he reports, including to the Chamber. It can then indicate that the illegality has been committed but that the Defence Department has said in the front: we are doing this knowingly and knowingly; we know that we are breaking the rule, but we think it is operationally necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u146	To finish, that means that it could have been used before. When it was discovered earlier that this would be a huge problem and that it would not otherwise be possible to participate in the exercise, one could have done the same. So it's not something new or something very complicated. It could have been deployed seven months ago, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u147	It is new in that sense that this power has been delegated over the past year. Last Monday, in the debate on Mr Bosman's question, I also said that we came from an organization in which things were mainly impossible and things were centralised, including powers. Sometimes it is also a matter of familiarity, knowing and wanting to deal with it. This also requires you to take that step. The figures for the coming year on the use of this escalation procedure also show that they are being used more. So I see that the operation commanders are able to use this tool. But this is, in that sense, a recent instrument for operation commanders. If you look back, there are many more things that could have been improved. That's what I indicated in my letter. This concerns coordination, planning and earlier intervention. We can now easily see these things, but it is about how we can prevent them in the future. For this reason, for example, this power is an important one. Mrs Diks and Mrs Belhaj also asked what is being done now. On the one hand, we invest in clothing and equipment. From 2019, so next year, that's also starting to happen. On the other hand, we ensure that we also regulate the procedures that we have and which make it easier and faster. I say to Mr Bosman that I will definitely come back to the Chamber if there are things that require legislative and regulatory adjustment because we are running into cases. I hope you'll have the coulance towards the Defense Department when it comes to unlawful acts on this point. On the other hand, there are the issues that I also mentioned in my letter, so the better coordination when it comes to planning and the exercise. We're also gonna see what we can do with window contracts so you can take cases sooner and faster. We have it, but we are now going to extend it further, for example, to the contracts we enter into in the coming period. For example, we have more space and more flexibility in the contracts. Another aspect, mentioned by Mrs Bruins Slot and Mrs Belhaj, is the intervention team.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u148	The Secretary of State asked me a question about coulance. Sure, sure, but we had a very good talk with the Goebels Committee, in which we also talked about a moral decision. That means that a decision you make is weighted and tested. There comes out an outcome that you can defend and which is verifiable. Regardless of the outcome of the decision, this has been considered. Then it may have been the wrong decision afterwards, but then it will be testable. So where there is serious thought about things and where it is seriously noted that one has to deviate from the rule of the responsibility one has as an employer, I can absolutely agree with that, and this has to be weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u149	That was an answer to a question put by Mr Bosman. I think it would be a good idea to look at the supplementary questions raised by your Chamber. I think I have answered Mrs Belhaj's question as to what measures are being taken now, including in order to rule this out for the future. I have indicated that the long-term perspective is to put stocks in order. That also means making investments. Then I'll come back to you. Stocks are now based on the second main task and not on the first main task. For example, there is considerable investment in ammunition. We talked about this last Monday. We will have to take further steps, but this also requires further investment, which will of course be discussed with the Chamber. Another aspect I mentioned is the purchase of the necessary clothing. Mrs. Belhaj asked me how I'm going to inform the Chamber. Last Monday I indicated that I am doing so in the budget and linked to it in the material project overview. It actually contains all the major projects, even when it comes to clothing and combat equipment. I will inform the Chamber about the planning on the main lines and about what is being delivered. I promised to do that in the spring, in the annual report. Then we also have a look back at what has been done. Then there is the question raised by Mrs Bruins Slot about the risks involved in exercises, how they are done and how action is taken. As you know, this competence lies with the operation commanders when it comes to planning exercises, even when it comes to deployment. Operational risk management will be carried out in advance and the need for additional equipment or clothing will also be examined. I just told you how that went with this exercise. In the first instance, it was not considered necessary because the basic equipment was considered sufficient. The basic equipment works in layers, where you can dress at -10°C, but also on warmer weather. Following the experience of the great exercise in Poland and our commitment in Lithuania, this additional commitment was also decided on for security reasons. That need was expressed at the end of 2017. I indicated to you that not everything could be delivered. This was noted in September. At that time, these additional measures were taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u150	Still, that puzzles me. Marines have been training and practicing in Norway for decades. They do that with an arctic garment package, partly at the same latitude, but at least in the same kind of areas as they've been to Trident Juncture. Why wasn't that link made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u151	Because this was initially not seen as cold weather training. It was seen as a regular bet. The effort was of course focused on the Middle East for years. We are now much more active in other areas. Through the experience of the great exercise in Poland and the commitment in Lithuania, we realized that we had to take additional measures. Therefore, these additional measures were taken and the cold weather equipment was involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u152	But are these Dutch soldiers in Trident Juncture in a totally different area than where they normally train?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u153	They are in a different area and it is also a different training than the Marines always do in the spring. So in that sense the training was different, but you are of course right when it comes to exchanging the experiences and the commitment. This is also an important lesson that we have learned, namely that we are ensuring internal coordination in which experience is exchanged. Unfortunately, we had to learn that important lesson. Then there is Mrs Diks' question on Rule 346. I was just talking about that. Mr Bosman asked which rules should be adapted and which should be broken. We are thinking at the moment with fast track procurement and the escalation procedure what we can do about it. But if it turns out that there is a need for more legislation or regulation, then we will also look at it. Mrs Belhaj made a statement about the increasing budgets and asked why it was not actually settled. I think I have dealt with what has gone wrong in this process and, above all, what we are doing to prevent it for the next time. The same applies to the escalation procedure. Both Mrs Belhaj and Mrs Bruins Slot have answered the question as to who is responsible and how. I have also answered Mrs Bruins Slot's question about how this has happened within the army and what coordination has taken place in it. Then there is Mrs Diks' question. I do not know exactly what your proposal is, Mrs Diks, about a large staff recovery. I think it is right to point out that at the beginning of this year, the General Court of Auditors noted that Defence has started the recovery, precisely in terms of business management and that steps have been taken and progress made. I see your appeal as a commitment, because you say you care and that you want the Defence Organization to get better. I think you're talking to Mrs Belhaj to see how the information can be improved. But indeed as rapporteur and not as a political responsibility. I'll speak through you again, Mr. Chairman. I think it is also important that the organisation that has done so long with less is now really going to take the step towards progress and get rid of centralization pressure, so to speak. That organization must have the time and space to get to work. The core of the Defense Department is to contribute to peace and security. You have to work with good stuff, with good colleagues and good missions. That space must be restored to our people. I am always willing to look at how information can improve, but a large project will be a lot of paper and not an answer to your question, your displeasure as well as your commitment to put the organisation in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u154	I mentioned earlier in an interruption that I am not talking about more paper. We are already buried under the packs of paper and the reports, if I may put it that way. I am concerned with the question of how we are going to do it in its entirety. Again, I do not dispute, in fact, I support your view that we are now seeing with each other that there is something really going on with the Defense Department. There are plans of action, there are action plans, there are reports and there are teams and you name it all; an endless line of words, I would almost say. But the question is: how do we ensure that this remains integral? How do we ensure that it gets to each other and that it becomes a whole and that at the end of this reign there is a Defence Organisation where you can say: we have all worked like crazy for three years, the Chamber and the Defence Organisation, and there is now a much better and firmer organisation than when we started in 2017, with services and parts that have played well together. I have the feeling that everyone is very brave and that a lot is happening, but that everything still works too much along each other. Ultimately, this does not contribute to strengthening and increasing trust in the organisation. That's what I get back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u155	I think we share the importance of giving the organization space. I think it's important to give that. In the coming period, not all problems within the Defense Department will be solved, which I have shared with you. One of the examples is real estate. I heard a number of examples, including kitchens. If you consciously choose to do less maintenance on your 11,000 buildings for 25 years, then you shouldn't look weird after 25 years if it's not in order. And that's true. We are now working in a real estate plan to see what the backlogs are, including the kitchens, what you need, what has the most urgency and how you can handle it. The entire property deficit is not going to be solved during this period, which takes at least 15 years. In the coming period you will receive all sorts of reports about property that is not in order, but you must give the space. The real estate plan will set priorities, and I will share them with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. So everything will have to be worked out step by step. You yourself spoke with the Chairman of the Visitation Committee this morning about safety. That's an important tool for you to keep Defense sharp, to keep us sharp, too. I'd like to give you the floor as a room first. Also indicate what you need for information and reporting. You're talking about the trust of the military. Those are professionals, so give them that space. Give them room to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u156	I see your involvement. I say that in every AO and in every plenary debate. I mean that sincerely, because it is not an attack on you or on the system. That's not the point. Like everyone else, I notice that there is something really going on at the Defence Organization. It's gotta be better. Because there is such a weak system at the moment, I think it would be wise for us all to look at it much more comprehensively. How are you going to do with all these reports to ensure that there is a kind of cross reference or a diagonal through all those reports, so that they are aligned and there is a logical line in them? How are you gonna do that? Do you intend to do so all by yourself or with your colleague, the Minister, so that after a few years we can see that it may not have been possible and that it could have been better? Why aren't you open to saying that the Chamber and I are going to stand together for this story?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u157	When it comes to the call to improve defence together, I say, of course. We'll share that with each other. But I don't think the cure you're proposing is gonna help a big project, Defense at all. I know you don't mean it like that, but it's kind of a vote of no confidence towards the organization. We must then provide all kinds of additional reports. We need all that capacity to arrange security, to arrange purchasing, to arrange all kinds of things. I know you don't mean it like that, but that's how it's experienced internally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u158	Mrs Diks, you may give a final brief response through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u159	Thank you. I also sometimes watch Twitter and I also saw that not everyone jumped back from my little proposal. Criticism is just never fun and especially not when you have finally gotten the system so far that everyone in the Chamber from left to right says: something is going on; we all have to do something. If you, as a military organization, know that you are working very hard and you hear that this Chamber wants more from you, you think: what do they want, isn't it good enough? I understand that very well, but it's about getting more integral. And I care about all these separate schemes, all of which are treated and done separately, including by us here. How do we ensure that integrity? I haven't heard from you yet how you intend to solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u160	Because an organization with 56,000 people... You say, "I want an integral plan on everything that happens within the Defense Department." Then it's about working with dangerous substances, which we talked about earlier today, about reintegration, about a very wide palette. That is what Mr Bosman just said. That is what we are doing with you in the budget and in the annual report. Then we'll give you some insight. I would like to give you a better understanding of the major material acquisition projects currently under way within the Defence Organisation. I deliberately chose to include the real estate and IT projects. There's a staff report to give you insight into what we see happening in the staff. There's a separate safety report. These are the main themes that I think it is important for the Chamber to have an insight into them. If you want that in a different way or if you think it should be connected in a better way, then am I always willing to look at it, but an integral accountability document master plan? That is the budget, that is the annual report. In particular, I am looking for what you need in addition, which you say I miss in order to be able to do my job in a good way. Again, I always have the willingness to talk about it, but a big project is, if I listen to your words carefully, not at all what you are looking for either. You really just want the organization to move forward and to be able to support it. Maybe we have the same goal. Let's see if we can come to a common solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u161	Before you continue, there is another question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u162	I'd like to suggest it before the Secretary of State closes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u163	That's not gonna happen. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u164	Then there were questions about the intervention team of both Mrs Bruins Slot and Mrs Belhaj. Mrs Belhaj or Mrs Bruins Slot rightly said: you do not want that; you actually want it to be solved. It is a broker's organization, a sort of interim window, to look at where the bottlenecks are and to look for structural solutions. That's what you want. You want to fix it structurally. It's not an alternative to the commander's line. The commander remains responsible, and if there's any trouble, report it to your commanding officer. He has a responsibility to deal with the problem. I have already said on Monday that a number of very practical things will be solved. They are very much on the communication aspect and the coordination of them. All kinds of reports are coming in. Sometimes they focus on the personal equipment, the clothes. Sometimes a certain pair of pants isn't in stock. Monday I mentioned a carpet in an office building that needed to be replaced. It's ripe and green, but it's a tool to see what the structural bottlenecks you need to solve. It's not about the "I don't know which one of you said that occasionally resolves symptoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u165	On Monday we also discussed this, and in particular the Intervention Teams. At that time, the Secretary of State did not entirely agree with me on the motion I had tabled to report to the Chamber on this. It was an internal team and it was mainly intended to solve problems quickly. But now I've come up with a new seduction tactic. The motion isn't filled out at any level of detail. I can imagine that you will, of course, initially have thousands of those people who come up with problems, with the intervention team going to solve them. The joke, or the interesting thing, must of course be that in six months' time you will have been able to solve 500 of those cases. And with the years, there will be fewer and fewer. So if it's okay, it's gonna be fun for the Secretary of State, too, because you can see that there's a lot of them now and they're getting less and less. Don't you think that's a nice temptation tactic of mine, Secretary of State, to convince you of why it might be interesting for the Chamber and to report on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u166	Well, that's a very open question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u167	You can always try to seduce me. But I have indicated that this is an internal instrument. That is important, because it is easy to reach. I'd like to leave it at that. If there are any problems that are a little wider, I would of course like to share them with you. But this is really internal and I also want to keep it internal, so that people feel the freedom to raise things. And we'll just report it back to the people who it's about. That's the core of the intervention team.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u168	Okay, I'll forget the seduction tactic and switch to another tactic. I'm not interested in the details. I'm not interested in how people follow the reports coming in. I'm interested at some kind of meta-level, for example: 1,000 reports came to the intervention team, 300 of them were the same and were about housing, 200 related to clothing and 100 related to salary. And they've solved it, or they haven't solved it yet. That's it, actually. I understand that it's your team and I don't even want to know what all these people are doing, but I do want to be able to compliment you and finally say: gosh, what progress! Don't you, again, secretly agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u169	Some things you just have to give time and space internally, before you go back to hanging on all kinds of reporting obligations. I have indicated that this is a real estate function, an internal point. Let's keep it there, too, so that it stays low-threshold. What matters in the core is that whoever reports something gets a feedback and that things get solved. Sometimes things don't get solved. I also gave you the example of infrastructure. If you have overdue maintenance and someone reports it, and you don't handle it for the next three years, you won't have solved it for the next three years. But you can communicate these things with each other. Did I solve a call, yes or no? At least I've communicated about it. That, I believe, is at the heart of the issue. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Belhaj also asked about the possibility of escalation. That's been appointed. A number of questions have been asked about the practice in Poland, by Mrs Bruins Slot. I think I've already dealt with how that went. Mrs Belhaj also mentioned the preparations. Actually, all those questions have been answered. There was a question from Mrs Belhaj about the ballistic plates in the vests. She'd asked about that. In principle, the date was the manufacturer's warranty date. That doesn't mean the plates don't work anymore. The ballistics are still tested per badge. But this signal was immediately picked up and the same goes for the story about the helmets. It's been reported and picked up immediately, so we can see what the causes are and how it needs to be picked up further. For example, an additional X-ray test has now been carried out at the KCT. We're gonna see if we can do some of these things wider within the Defense Department. I think it is precisely a sign of things that are going on and that are being taken up immediately to ensure that we are also taking it on a wider scale and also taking it up for the future. Whether it's the ballistic plates or the helmets, it's typical examples that have been reported and picked up and solved. I think I still have Mr Kerstens' question about the military police. They have a waterproof black parka and a blue jacket is basically in the standard equipment. Only that with the vest itself is not really good in terms of wearing comfort. That just doesn't feel right. So we're gonna take a look at that. We're working on the new invitation to tender for the rain gear. It will be deported to the Marines and the Army in the coming period, but we will also see what that means for the Royal Marechaussee. So there is clothing available, only in combination with the vest it is probably not very comfortable in terms of wearing comfort. That's why people don't wear it, when that provision is there. Mr Öztürk's question on the obligation of care. Of course, we have a duty of care. That is why we are also making material investments in large-scale material projects, whether it be the F-35 or the submarines, whether it be the Apache or the Chinook, and whether it is the ammunition stocks. But we also invest in clothing, combat equipment and new vests with the radio tune that is necessary for this. I believe that I have responded to Mr Öztürk's question when the improvements will take place. We do so in the short term with flexibility in contracts, the application of existing emergency procedures but also with other procedures such as faster procuration, better coordination, coordination between needs, risks and bottlenecks, and the intervention team. And we are doing so in the longer term by putting stocks back in order and giving them an insight into it. But there are also the big projects that are on the combat clothing, the combat equipment, the vests and all the ICT equipment that goes with it. Mr President, I think I am through the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u170	Thank you. However, there is another question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u171	Sometimes there is a moment in the debate that you think: where did we start again? What started this discussion again? There have been many incidents, but one was the most important. That was how it was possible that so last minute with an escalation model it was decided to spend those jackets in a unique way. Every time I play the video again and then I think: I can imagine somewhere that there is a department that plans things. When you plan things, there's someone who says, "I'll make the list of what we all need to go there." It was a NATO exercise that was mainly about: let's see what we all have to do to make it work when it comes to it. Then I see ships coming somewhere in my head, things getting loaded on big... Oh, I told you. I see helicopters being loaded onto ships. I imagine all sorts of things. But then there was no list of things to do: bringing coats that are suitable for Norway. And I think that's kind of weird. And I'd still like to ask the Secretary of State if she could explain why it wasn't a vacation list that wasn't on that thing-to-do list that you're ticking off what you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u172	I indicated that it was the idea that it wasn't cold weather training. We have the basic equipment. I do not need to explain it to Mr Bosman and Mrs Bruins Slot, but the basic equipment is a layering system that allows you to get in the plus but also in the minus. At first it was thought that was enough for the training that was done there. We have then seen from experience in Poland and Lithuania that additional measures were needed, particularly in the area of security. At the end of 2017, the need was expressed and said: not only for our commitment in Lithuania, where we just want to have it by default, but also for Norway we want to talk about it. So there is an additional need. That's turned off. That tender went ahead, but then in September it turned out that not everything that was ordered could be delivered. That had to do with the supplier who couldn't deliver some things in time. No, different suppliers, because you also saw the list of what was delivered. That is why it was said at the time: how can we ensure in the short term that we still get it settled? Something that is often used within the Defense Department is the independent purchase, so people can buy something independently. That was then considered to be the most practical solution that was invented at the time. That's why they did it. In retrospect, you can say that a number of things should have been different. That is what I said in my letter, and I indicated it here. A number of things need to be changed. That is, indeed, exactly as you say, in the coordination and in the consideration of such an exercise. Did we do the checklist with each other and put in place the acquisition in time? If it turns out you can't, will you escalate sooner? So you're gonna bet the acquisition in a good way? That all plays once it runs, but it is much more important to put it in structural order. For this reason, when it comes to clothing, we invest heavily in 48,000 pieces of new clothing, in new helmets and new combat equipment, but also in new vests and new ICT equipment. This will be extradited in the coming years from 2019, as you will then take structural measures. In the meantime, more than 1,000 packages are delivered; 700 individual packages. Each time will have to be looked at: what is included in the standard package, for example with the army? If you know that you have more bets in areas where it's a little colder, maybe you should include some of the cold weather equipment for the army in the basic package. That is being looked at at the moment, precisely on the basis of this experience. These things are now being done to prevent this from happening again in the future. That does not rule out the fact that individual things can still go wrong when it comes to the stakes. It can also go wrong when it comes to items where the supplier says he will deliver them but which are not delivered in time. Then you need to put in place the right procedures and take action as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u173	Then I have two supplementary questions. Say, I'm asking a company if it can deliver anything. With that company, I have a contract, which says, "Yes, we're gonna take care of it." As one of those companies that doesn't deliver, it seems to me that you have agreements that you don't want to do business with it anymore. You don't want to do business with companies that can't deliver, do you? That's my first question. My second question is about something I don't understand. I think the Americans had the same problem. The Americans called the Norwegians, and they said, "Oh, you've been through this before, and it's your standard equipment; do you have anything left?" It could always go wrong again. That's why I was wondering to what extent there is standard international cooperation, so that you can just call each other and say: do you have 1,000 more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u174	That's not standard, but of course it can always be. That question can always be asked, and it will probably have been asked to us in the past or vice versa. If a supplier can't deliver, of course you're looking at that, as well as the contract. But that things go wrong and that things are not delivered, also happens in ordinary traffic. Sometimes it also has to do with certain material that is not present. Then the reason is not that the supplier cannot make the product but that the raw material is not there. For example, for ballistic plates, you need certain raw materials. When everyone in the world calls for it, the raw material suddenly becomes more difficult to obtain and the price goes up. Then it has nothing to do with the supplier, but it has to do with the fact that business cannot be done in the production process. So it's not always a supplier's fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u175	I understand, but this is about coats. I don't think there was a shortage of coats, feathers or anything like that. You ask a supplier to deliver me coats. You tick that: times 1,000. Then they don't deliver it. Well, I guess you don't want to do business with a company like that anymore. You don't want to, if you order it in January and after six or seven months it's not there yet? That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u176	Of course the conversation is held with the supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u177	Thank you. The Secretary of State had come to the end of her term. This means that I am once again addressing Mrs Diks, asking if she would like to come forward for her second term. As with other Members, she has one minute and 20 seconds speaking time. Mrs Diks van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start reading the motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that despite the measures taken by the directors, the management of the Defence Organisation with regard to Defence personnel is so much flawed that this leads to unacceptable incidents and scandals, affecting the security of Defence personnel;]] [[Whereas the Government and Parliament jointly have a responsibility to ensure the security of personnel, and it is important that both the Government and the Chamber are fully involved in monitoring the restoration of operations in the defence sector;]] [[noting that the government has already launched several actions, such as the work of the Visiting Commission and the establishment of the Security and Defence Inspectorate;]] [[Calls on the Government to organise the restoration of operations within the Defence Organisation as a single project with regard to Defence personnel and to include the measures and actions already undertaken below;]] [[points out the intention to consider the restoration of operations within the Defence Organisation in relation to the Defence Staff as a major project within the meaning of the Large Projects Scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27830-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u179	I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State. He's worried about naming the big project. Now I hear that as a Chamber we are going to make a ruling on the appointment of a major project, while the Secretary of State indicates that this is going to be a problem for the organisation. But we're gonna do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u180	We're gonna have a conversation. We've spoken now, we'll see each other extensively on Monday and we'll only vote on Tuesday. I am fully prepared to amend the motion if anything interesting happens on Monday. But not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u181	Mrs Belhaj also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u182	I am very much in favour of transparency, in fact on everything. I am also very much in favour of information and the monitoring task. I think that's the funniest job we've got. That is why I have been the financial rapporteur twice, last time with Mrs Diks. That's an incredible amount of work, but you do it with love for your colleagues, who don't feel like it or just don't have that much time or ability to control everything properly; it really doesn't matter. We have the I.T. that's separate. We have the JSF that's separate. We have a plan of action for the military equipment. We have chrome-6 now. We've got the Visitation Commission. We've got the Gibbles Committee. We still have an extra check at the Ministry of Finance, which checks whether or not certain expenditures are good. And I've filed a motion for more control of clothes and the like. I am very much in favour of checking and checking specific plans and not of one bup. 'Cause then I don't know how it's gonna be easier for us as MPs. I am therefore not in favour of Mr Bosman's argument. My question is why you want this so badly. Will we not strive much more to just take everything away so that we can check it properly and thus make our work easier? Let's not make it any harder, because that's what the Secretary of State will say very much: I sent you thousands of pages with a staple through it; Mrs Diks, you could read it on page 967. What do you think of my story?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u183	I understand what you're saying and, of course, I understand what the Secretary of State and others are saying. Again, I am not concerned that we are being sent a pack of paper that we have to plow through and bury each other under all kinds of texts. That's just not what I mean. But can I give you an example? With a little good will, there's gonna be some kind of master plan for real estate. I'd like that. There's a plan for security. There will be a plan of approach to security and integrity. Those three things, of course, have a lot to do with each other and are sometimes the same, because you can't build a barracks when you don't think about safety at all. Well, that's what I'm talking about. How do you ensure that when you create a master plan for the real estate, you also pay attention to safety, so fire safety, social safety and food safety? How do we ensure that someone who deals with real estate not only looks at stones, but also has an eye for the big story of that security? I'm interested in that kind of integrality. And I also understand very well that you can't look at the entire Defense Organization from one point. But we've written all these separate plans with each other now. So just your own list makes me think it would be wiser to "throwing it together" at one point, to put it a little roughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u184	Okay, we're gonna throw it together. So then you have all kinds of loose plans, because real estate is something other than social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u185	Part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u186	It comes together at some point. But now I have something very funny: we have appointed two people to do that work, namely the Secretary of State and the Minister. I can ask the Secretary of State: you have now made a plan for real estate, how does that relate to the plans about the staff? Then the Secretary of State says "well tired, what a question" and I go back to asking written questions and I get an answer. So the Secretary of State and the Minister have to explain the integrity to me when I need it. So why don't you make sure we ask those questions to the rulers? 'Cause you're gonna get those thousands of pages, huh? And then they say, "Good luck!"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u187	I see a few people looking at the clock, but well, we're just having a debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u188	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u189	This is for clarity. The point is, of course, that if you look at all those pages, it might even be the case that at the moment you put it smarter together, you also get fewer pages. That variant could still exist. In case you think asking written questions doesn't put annoying pressure on the organization, I can help you out of the dream. There is really no official waiting for written questions. The answer takes a lot of money and a lot of time. I'm sticking to the point that I think it can be smarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u190	I think you had another motion, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u191	But I can't get any further than just reading out the request, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u192	You can just read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u193	Okay, fine. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the equipment of military personnel deployed on mission or exercise should be in order and should not be subject to situations where military personnel are forced to purchase their own equipment;]] [[Whereas rules on careful public procurement are of great importance, but the importance of providing military personnel with adequate equipment in a timely manner should be set out above;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether Article 346vwEU and the Fast-Track Procurement standard is an option for the acquisition of equipment for military personnel on mission or exercise in the short term, so that such acquisition can run outside the regular procurement rules as a matter of urgency and inform the Chamber accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27830-273]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u194	Thank you for letting me read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u195	Thank you, Mrs Diks. The next speaker is Mrs Bruins Slot from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u196	Mr. Chairman. Military personnel must be able to rely on their clothing and personal combat equipment. They must be sent out with the right equipment, with the best means to fight. It shouldn't be like Bison Drawsko that 35 soldiers with cold injuries end up standing still. And it shouldn't be like the Enhanced Forward Presence in Lithuania, where 35 soldiers with cold injuries were also found. Is it true, I ask the Secretary of State, that even the exercise of Bison Drawsko has been adapted, because the weather conditions were heavier than those for which the military had brought clothing? Yes, at some point we get the insight that we need to arrange better clothing for our military in Norway. After nine months, it still doesn't work to make sure the right clothes are there. All emergency procedures remained in the closet. The Fast-Track Procurement, the escalation procedure, was only applied after the Secretary of State interfered. It feels like Kafka: being sent from the cabinet to the wall. It is time for the task to build a stronger defence, to repair what is broken and not to do so with more bureaucracy, but above all with action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u197	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. Then we go to the next speaker, and that is Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u198	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I have to admit that it is still a mystery to me how this NATO exercise went. Someone might like to write another book about how this could have happened. I can take it a little lightly because it turned out okay in the end. But as I pointed out in my first term, the reason why D66 is constantly actively monitoring whether things are going well in all kinds of ways is simply that I do not want to see that one day we find out that something has not gone well and that people have fallen victim. I think the Secretary of State shares that with us. It sounds a little technocratic, but it's important. I tabled that motion to gain more control than we have now, because of a large overview of: this is the planning, in 2024 we are ready and so much money is available. I really think it's important so I can do my job. Furthermore, I can only wish that we no longer talk about any kind of equipment. If that is necessary, then I think the Secretary of State knows that she is facing D66 with a lot of displeasure, because I am just really done with this. If we cannot deliver, we must take consequences and not send people on mission or on practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u199	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. You have a brief interruption by Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u200	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In the end, I heard something in Mrs Belhaj's speech about consequences. Why not now? Why do we have to wait for another death? Why do we have to wait until people get hurt again? Why do we have to wait for another complaint? Why do we have to wait until the next incident before you take any consequences and why not now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u201	As Mr Öztürk knows, you have an article 100 letter. That is a letter in which the cabinet states that it is doing a mission, and it lists things that need to be done. What you then do as a Member of Parliament I do not do, I decide that is not to see whether that is realistic, whether there are enough helicopters, whether people have the right equipment and whether people have the right shoes. And if I don't, I say, "Well, I don't agree." Then I'm gonna sit here and I'm gonna say, "I don't agree." There's got to be something on my mind, Mr. Chairman. I'm not that quick to take on colleagues, except in an informal way. But I saw something. Mr Öztürk has been on a working visit. You've asked zero questions about equipment and clothing. You may show moral amazement, you may share gut feelings and you may attack me, but I hope you understand that for a person that feels a little strange to me as I walk out of my body by asking questions, by being the rapporteur, by checking things and reading things. And then you're going to ask me these questions in this tone. It's okay, but I don't like it that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u202	I'm not here to make it fun, either. That's not why I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u203	No, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u204	The story is a weak story: you've been to work and you haven't asked any questions. Were you the minutest there or something? What matters is that it's people, people's lives. I think you have a different role in the coalition than you did when you were in the opposition. I think you're protecting the Minister and the Secretary of State here right now and you're thinking: well, I have questions and I want consequences, but I can't bite. That is my core question: when is D66 going to be in the coalition, too, just tough on the military and hard on the mistakes that are being made? And not like: I asked questions, I joined, I listened. You're not nice. We're not here to be nice to each other. We're here to serve our country and control the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u205	Thank you. Then Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u206	I'm not necessarily a nice person either. I like what you're saying. You are suggesting that because I am in a coalition, I am not autonomous and critical. I don't think you're paying attention, because if anyone is, I am. This is not about coalition at all. In fact, I think it's really inappropriate. This isn't about a coalition deal at all. I'm still the same person as before. I'm still asking the same questions. Mr President, I have learned that when someone talks, the other lets you finish. Right? Okay. I'm just going to keep talking, because you're being extremely rude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u207	No, wait a minute. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, We are going to return to peace for a moment, and I would like to ask you both to speak through the President. So Mrs Belhaj is talking about Mr Öztürk and Mr Öztürk is talking about Mrs Belhaj. And Mrs Belhaj gets the floor to finish this little debate quietly, and if there is a personal element in it, Mr Öztürk will have the opportunity to respond in peace, because that way we all understand what it is about and keep it a little tidy. After all, it's the Week of Respect. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u208	Mr President, with all due respect. I'll wrap it up. I think my point has been clear. I now add the consequence that I want to be able to have more control. I wonder what consequences you'll have, because if you take this story...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u209	Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u210	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Through you. The fact that Mr Öztürk himself will make consequences once, once and for all. Then you're a real guy. Mr President, through you against Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u211	Yeah, clear. Mr Öztürk, would you also like to make a brief concluding remark towards Mrs Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u212	I think I hit Mrs. Belhaj's sensitive string. You're gonna get that, aren't you? That's what you get at some point when you really put your finger on the sore spot. That's when the feelings come out. Then words are used as "you're not polite, because you've got me exactly what it's really about." You're just in this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u213	Mrs. Belhaj, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u214	You are, through the chairman. Mrs. Belhaj just became a pussycat. She can't do anything anymore. She can't do anything anymore. That's just my observation. Asking nice questions is fun, but in the end, they're not deeds. As long as you don't act, Mrs. Belhaj, you're nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u215	Well, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u216	Mr President, I would like to conclude with all courtesy. I like to engage in debates with people, but the downside is that when I do, people say, "Don't do that, 'cause you're gonna get this kind of stuff. But it doesn't matter at all. I know what I'm standing for. I know I can speak with feeling. So I also know that I can get incredibly angry when people touch my integrity. But I am grateful to you because my coalition colleagues now know that this is just the stage of being pussy. So know what else can happen. I am particularly curious about Mr Öztürk's actions, because I do not see any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u217	We don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u218	I don't see any action. All I see is a lot of talk, but no result in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u219	Mrs Belhaj, thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u220	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u221	We are going to see if there will be any further motions, because I am going to give the floor to Mr Öztürk of DENK for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u222	Mr. Chairman. I think it is time for coalition parties, like in this case D66, to make their voices heard loud and clear to the Defense Department, and for them not to hide behind words like: we have questions, we are worried. Anyway, let me read out the DENK motions, because I only have one minute and twenty seconds, I understand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Secretary of State for Defence has not shown good employership;]] [[declares that the Secretary of State for Defence has a full duty of care for the Defence Staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27830-274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u223	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research by Trouw and Nieuwsuur has shown that Dutch support has been provided to terrorist groups;]] [[believes that it is scandalous that Dutch soldiers should buy their own equipment, while terrorist groups abroad are given this stuff;]] [[calls on the government to provide all the basic facilities for each of the Dutch military in transit rather than supporting terrorist groups abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27830-275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u224	No questions from D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u225	I give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u226	Mr. Chairman. I also have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Ministry of Defence is clearly inadequate to address the structural problems in the field of equipment effectively;]] [[Whereas the problems can only be addressed by an effective Defence Organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to take the necessary concrete steps to improve the organisation in the Ministry in the shortest possible time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that serious deficiencies in the defence sector have repeatedly been revealed, from lack of clothing to lack of weapons and ammunition, from poor and unhealthy barracks to food supply problems;]] [[noting that the deficits in the defence sector are structural in nature and are beginning to manifest themselves across the board;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Ministry of Defence is not in a position, with its current budget, to address these problems decisively;]] [[calls on the government to increase defence expenditure to 2% of GDP in accordance with NATO Treaty commitments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27830-276]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27830-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u227	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u228	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment briefly on a number of questions that have been asked. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked if Bison Drawsko's program had been modified as well. Yeah, that's right. So that's a lesson from the injury that happened at the time. I do not see Mrs Belhaj in the Chamber right now. I don't know if anyone's ever heard the call to write a book because of what's happening, but I think the most important thing is to find out that lessons have been learned from it. I have heard a number of colleagues in this Chamber about the shortcomings. It is important to note that we can resolve some of these issues in the coming period, but that a number of things I have just mentioned, for example in relation to real estate, will simply not be resolved in the coming period. I think that is important to note, because unfortunately we cannot solve everything now, at once. It takes time to put the organisation in order. I'll get on the motions. In the first motion, which in part No. 272, asks Mrs Diks to consider the restoration of business operations as a major project. I think I have already addressed this in my reply. I'm dissuading the motion. It is important for the organisation to have time and space to take on all these things. So I see no added value in this motion. The second motion by Mrs Diks, in part No. 273, requests that Article 346 be applied to the acquisition of equipment. I have indicated that Article 346 is not actually applicable to the purchase of clothing. First of all, because it does not appear on the 1958 list. I also indicated that Fast Track Procurement is one of the options under consideration. So this is how I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. I propose that Mrs Diks continue and amend the motion, otherwise I must discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u229	I'm asking Mrs Diks for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u230	We're so fancy today, just to use one Gelder's word. It does not seem to me to be a problem to change the motion and to take Article 346 out of it, because, of course, in the motion we refer very directly to the clothing situation. Then that idea of Fast Track Procurement can stay in it. So if I take out Article 346, you can live with it, if I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u231	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll read her in a minute, but I think... Let me put it this way: the fact that you are calling for Fast Track Procurement: yes. But you're linking it to breaking the rules, and the motion really needs to be reworded for that. So I'm actually suggesting that Mrs Diks keep her on and that we see what we can do. Because I understand Mrs Diks' thinking, and I think Mrs Bruins Slot, and indeed Mr Bosman and Mrs Belhaj, have also called for us to look at what additional action you can take and what acquisition strategies you can apply. With that look, I'd like to look at it, but I suggest Mrs. Diks keep her on. I think that's what she's doing here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u232	I'll take a look at Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u233	Then there is Mr Öztürk's motion. 274, who doesn't have a title. She's about the duty of care. I'm trying to understand her. Of course, Defense simply has a duty of care, but Mr Öztürk added the term "unshortened." I'm trying to understand what he means by that. We just have a duty of care and that state. I do not quite understand what you want in addition to this motion. This would be an unnecessary motion, and for that reason I would advise her against it. Mr Öztürk was not in the Chamber during the reply, so perhaps that led to this motion being tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u234	Mr Öztürk briefly explains the intention of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u235	"Unshortened" because a lot of soldiers indicate that they feel that these incidents can happen again. I think we can say with the whole Chamber that we are going to do everything we can with full care, but we are going to do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen again. With that, I think a signal is being sent to the Defense personnel, to give them the feeling: we are fully behind you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u236	Let me see if this is sufficiently clear to the Secretary of State and what this means for her judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u237	I am still trying to understand what is different from the ordinary duty of care that an employer has for his staff and that Defence has. I therefore maintain my view that the motion is superfluous and I therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u238	Despite this duty of care, a lot of things have happened in recent months and years. It is customary for the Chamber to state after such a debate that this will not happen again. So if you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u239	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u240	This is a motion to say when the sun shines during the day: the sun shines. I think it's important that we have that duty of care. I think it is then a question of "what do you do about it?', "What have you done about it as a result of what has happened?', "What measures have you taken?', "What plans are you working on?" And "what about that plan of action for a safe organisation?'. That is also what I would like to discuss with you. I think we should talk about that. You have to ask me about where we stand. That's what you set up the Visitation Commission for. I need you to keep me on that. The Chamber can then also make a statement in a motion on matters that have taken place, but in my view the motion as it has now been formulated is superfluous, and I have also sincerely asked Mr Öztürk what is behind it. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I shall now move on to Mr Öztürk's next motion. That's the motion in part No. 275. I also advise against this motion, because the request contained in it contains a number of assumptions. If you wish to table this motion, I would ask you, in particular, to discuss this further with the Foreign Minister. You also had that debate with the Foreign Minister. I'm dissuading the motion. I'm going to move on to the next motion. That's the motion in part No. Mr Baudet. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Baudet for his excellent This motion calls on the government to take the necessary concrete steps to put the organisation in order. I have indicated in the reply that there are a number of areas in which work is being carried out, such as safety, physical safety, everything related to munitions companies and social security. A real estate plan is also being worked on. Mr Baudet's request is to work on a plan, to put it into practice and to make the various steps clear and to share with the Chamber, so that she knows, for example, what will happen next year and what will happen next year, because of course we cannot do everything at once. They're working on it. I believe that the motion is superfluous, because the plan is in place. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 277. That is an uncovered motion, because you are calling for additional expenditure and you have not covered it. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u241	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and for having this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-14.u242	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
