ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Van Raak, Van der Linde, Sneller, Nijboer and Van Toorenburg amending the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act in connection with the evaluation of this Act, Room 34683, and the proposal of members Van Raak, Van der Linde, Sneller, Nijboer and Van Toorenburg to amend the Parliamentary and External Research Regulations of the Second Chamber, Parliamentary Document 33812, No. 5. I would like to welcome Mr Van Raak, Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Nijboer in Box K. They are supported in their proposal by the staff of the Temporary Committee on Evaluation Act on the parliamentary survey, Mr Roovers, Registrar of the Committee, Mr Loeffen, Deputy Griffin, Mrs Verbruggen-Groot, Legislative Lawyer, and Mrs Harpe of the Analysis and Research Service. I would also like to welcome you. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we want to deal with the proposals as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u2	I would now like to give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Van Nispen, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find a law dealing in the Chamber special. I think that dealing with an initiative law is even more special. And I find this law and this arrangement and the work that has been put into it very special. I really do, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to see these MPs and the staff sitting here. There's a lot of work in it. I'll get back to you extensively, but this is the kick-off. Halfway through last month, it was ten years ago that the financial crisis began, a crisis that was the result of abuses in banks. This crisis had a major impact on society. Ordinary citizens had to pay the bill of tens of billions. But this crisis also affected politics, which suddenly had to intervene deeply in the financial sector. At the time, MPs were also confronted with a very new situation, with far-reaching measures to be taken. At the time, I was a policy officer for Jan de Wit. I was proud that, under his leadership, a parliamentary survey was carried out on the financial system. As you should, of course, you never hear anything of that as an employee. His room door was closed more often than usual, and there was a safe in his room. So I didn't know what was going on there. But now I know a little bit more about that, which is that it hasn't always been easy. The survey thus shows exactly what the right of inquiry is intended for: drawing lessons to improve parliamentary control. The parliamentary survey is the most serious means that Parliament can use. With this, the House of Representatives shows that we want to go through everything and want to know everything. That is why a committee investigates for many months and people are heard under oath. The De Wit Committee has done a fantastic job. But that committee also had to observe that it was sometimes difficult to get information. Arrangements were sometimes unclear. Sometimes we had to negotiate for a long time. Nor was any information obtained. This was a reason for the Chamber to make an evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey Act. In addition to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Financial System, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Housing Corporations and the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Fyra have also been examined in detail. Evaluating our parliamentary instruments is not the most sexy work in the Chamber. It is a lot of work for MPs, and especially for employees. I would like to thank all the members of the committee and all the staff for their sound, very good report. It's been a lot of work. And it is also very good work, with many practical recommendations on how to use the survey, our most powerful tool, even better. The committee has not made an overall assessment, and that is a good choice. The Parliamentary Survey Act is also only ten years old. It is interesting, however, that the problems the De Wit Committee saw also appeared to be present during the surveys on housing and the Fyra. In particular, the committee has sought practical solutions to the problems identified. It is also very practical that the framework of action set up by the committee and that future committees of inquiry can help to get all the information out of the table. Today we are discussing the committee's report, but also an amendment of the law and the amendment of our own Parliamentary and External Research Regulations. I will no longer keep the members of the committee, the staff, but also the MPs in suspense. The SP supports this today, heartfeltly. The committee makes 23 concrete proposals. I'm not gonna walk them all past here. It is good that practical proposals are made on the right to change, to obtain information from the Council of Ministers and to cooperate from Europe. But there is one thing I want to highlight here, and that is the way in which we will deal with the appeal to the State's interest in the future. The Chamber has a constitutional right to information, but the Cabinet may, in the interests of the State, refuse information. I agree with the committee that there must always be a balance of interests and that it is not just a matter for the cabinet to make that balance. Not only the Cabinet, but also the Chamber is part of the State. The committee has looked into this issue and has also sought a great deal of advice. This shows that a substantive definition or interpretation of the concept of "interest of the State" is not possible. Does this mean that Article 40 of the law is inadequate? The committee wants the cabinet to always provide a good justification if it believes that certain information cannot be given. There will then be consultations between the Cabinet and the Committee of Inquiry. It may also be decided to disclose information confidentially. But the question is, of course, who has the last word? The committee does not seem to be able to clarify this at this stage. On the one hand, the Committee writes: it is ultimately up to the directors to refuse information on the basis of the interest of the State: page 69. On the other hand, the Committee writes: in the end, the Chamber will make its own decision. She also writes that the final word on this should ultimately be in the Chamber: page 70. So the question to the committee is: can the cabinet continue to refuse if the Chamber wants information anyway? The opinions of the temporary committee are not only about surveys, but also about parliamentary committees of inquiry and about committees of the Chamber as part of the regular work. Does that also apply to the way in which we deal with the appeal to the interest of the State in the future? I refer to the questions I have just asked about this. What will change in concrete terms for the Chamber if we adopt these opinions? The Minister wrote on 20 June in a letter to the Chamber that the Cabinet considers that the proposed obligation to state reasons does not change the practice already in place. Is that how the committee sees it? How am I supposed to read advice 19, out of 23? It proposes a new approach on the grounds of the State's interest and the treatment of confidential information. I would also like to hear the state of play on opinion 18, which recommends that the 2002 information protocol between the Chamber and the Cabinet be terminated. This would no longer be satisfactory and it would be perceived as problematic. Has it been canceled yet? If not, who is the initiative? The committee has previously drawn up a proposal for a parliamentary interrogation, with which the Chamber has been given a new parliamentary instrument, with which we can hear people under oath in the short term. Of course, we're going to evaluate that medicine later. Finally. The committee is right to say that the means of the parliamentary survey can be important for people's confidence in politics, because surveys are not about incidents, but are a means of getting to the bottom of problems. If the Chamber decides on a survey, we will also show that we are serious. This is our last and most far-reaching parliamentary instrument. I think, once again, that future committees of inquiry will have a lot to do with the practical aspects of this report. I therefore thank you once again very much for this important work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. A parliamentary survey is one of the toughest political means available to the people's representatives. I myself had the privilege of participating as a researcher in a parliamentary survey long ago, in the last century, far ahead of my life as a Member of Parliament. That was in the survey on the methods of detection, better known as the Van Traa Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u6	So I have seen very closely how much work is going to be carried out in such a parliamentary survey and how precisely that is being dealt with. My group believes that we need to maintain the strength of the heavy instrument that is the parliamentary survey, adapted to the here and now. That is why my group welcomes the changes that have been made today. I thank the initiators for their bill. Mr. Chairman. The detailed examination by the Temporary Committee of the evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey Act shows that there is considerable scope for improvement. Whether it is information or information, the confidentiality of documents and conversations, or the need or duty to participate in a parliamentary inquiry. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by commending the initiators for having taken into account the comments made by the Council of State, for having extended the explanatory memorandum and for having amended the law on a number of points. I have further questions on four aspects. First of all, on the closed preliminary discussion. A person with whom a preliminary interview is held shall not be subject to any obligation of secrecy, but shall be prohibited from disclosure. Can the initiators indicate exactly where the difference is? And can the initiators give some examples in which the prohibition of disclosure gives more scope to someone who has pre-arranged than would give the obligation of confidentiality? Secondly, the confidentiality of the documents. The evaluation gives a detailed account of the confidentiality of the documents provided by the Cabinet. In this context, it is stated at some point that the Court could assume responsibility for dealing with confidential information and that the Court should have the final say. However, the initiators decided not to include this in the present legislative proposal. Can they explain why? And can they also indicate how they feel about the opinion of the evaluation committee? Thirdly, the changing ground. Someone may refuse to participate in a parliamentary inquiry on the basis of the grounds for change. That refusal must then be duly justified. Can the initiators give examples of cases where this could occur? To what do they think a proper justification should be met? Fourthly, finally, the right of entry. The Minister is quite clear in her response to the legislative proposal why she considers this unnecessary, despite the fact that this has never been used. Can the initiators respond to this point of the Minister? Mr. Chairman. Those were my questions. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Van der Molen from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I agree with the positive words of Mr Van Nispen of the SP. It is always good to see MPs in trade union K, especially on a subject that is about how we as the Second Chamber can get a grip on the work of the cabinet and carry out our controlling role. To this end, the parliamentary survey is one of the most important instruments. It is good that we have reviewed the law and that we are also going to amend the law on a number of points so that we can use it in the coming years and even more effectively. All thanks to the initiators for the legislative proposal. The CDA can also wholeheartedly support the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. We have spoken before in this Chamber about Article 68, the article of the Constitution which is commissioned by the Cabinet to inform the Chamber properly and proactively. I have tabled two motions for resolutions during that debate, which I have tabled at the request of the President. They deal with a number of issues that have already been covered here. I would very much like to put these motions to the vote again in this debate. Then they can be discussed within the framework of this bill. So I'm not filing them again, but I'll put them to the vote. Let me just mention the two points. The first motion I had tabled notes that the House of Representatives itself has documents which have been handed over confidentially to it. Now is not the case that in the archives of the Chamber all the documents we have had confidentially can be found again. This leads to dependence on the cabinet in a parliamentary survey in order to be able to reconstruct something. That is why the motion asks the President of the Chamber to ensure that documents which are kept confidential for inspection remain with the House of Representatives or that copies of them are always available in the archives of the House of Representatives. That is the verdict contained in this motion. The second motion that we consider important for the position of the Chamber is how we deal with information and documents provided to the Chamber for confidential treatment. Other MPs mentioned that. Then who is ultimately the one who decides how to deal with it? As far as the CDA is concerned, it's in the Chamber. I would also like to mention one of the considerations: 'whereas, at the reasoned request of the Government, the Court itself must decide on the manner in which it deals with confidential information or documents'. The request to the Bureau is that, on the basis of the recommendations of the Temporary Committee on Evaluation, proposals be made to amend the rules on confidential documents. In it we arrange that the Chamber may finally take that decision. The CDA Group looks forward to the vote of the Chamber and I hope that other parties will also support this improvement in the position of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u9	Those two motions had been filed before, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u10	Yes. So now they're back on the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u11	Very well, thank you. I call Mr Van Gent of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to start by thanking my colleagues and the official support for the great work they have done. They deserve praise for the fact that they have managed to find time in addition to the busy everyday Chamberwork for one of the most important but often some snowy tasks of parliament, namely that of co-legislator. It is also one of the most important instruments available to the States-General through the 1848 Constitutional Amendment: the right of inquiry. If Parliament thinks that a particular matter should be investigated to the very bottom, then a committee can be set up to conduct an investigation in which Dutch people are questioned under oath. In the first instance, the people's representatives enthusiastically used this new weapon. Between 1852 and 1887 as many as eight surveys were carried out, including a survey on infectious lung disease in cattle, the sailing water on the Zwolsche Deep and the excise duty on salt. But after that, the draft came in. After 1890 only a parliamentary survey on the functioning of the government during the Second World War was conducted between 1947 and 1956. I can tell you from my own experience that the committee reports are a very good source of historical research. It was not until 1983 that the plea was again seized when an investigation was initiated into the bankruptcy of the shipbuilding company Rijn-Schelde-Verolme. Since then, a dozen surveys have been carried out on, among other things, the passport affair, the Bijlmer disaster and housing corporations. Following these recent investigations, it appeared that the old 1850 law had to be modernised. And the VVD believes it is very good to maintain our laws to make this future-proof. In 2008, the revised Parliamentary Survey Act came into force. However, subsequent investigations showed that this parliamentary right had to be improved on a number of points. Not only the law itself but also the parliamentary and external investigation regime should be reviewed. That is why the Chamber has set up the Temporary Committee for Evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey Act. The abbreviation is TCEWPE, I think. If I may make a point of criticism: that is not a very good choice. But that aside. The committee's report is the basis of the present proposal for an initiative. The legislative proposal proposes a number of changes in the field of archiving, closed pre-consultations and the conditions for the provision of confidential documents. And the VVD can agree to these modifications. But we do think that the temporary committee's proposals for limiting the grounds for change go too far. In its response to the initiative proposal, the government announced on 20 June 2018 its support for the family change right. We believe that the right not to cooperate in a conviction or interrogation of a family member is fundamental. An interrogation by the Committee of Inquiry has a public and inquisitory character and can therefore lead to public condemnation. The government had therefore asked the Chamber to reconsider the inclusion of this right. The VVD believes that family change should be part of the Parliamentary Survey Act and has also tabled an amendment to that effect. Mr President, that is my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you. Your amendment has part No. 11, I'll add. Mr Van Nispen has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u14	I do not agree with one part of Mr Van Gent's speech: I think TCEWPE is a very nice abbreviation. Anyway, tastes are different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u15	Are you coming up with a motion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u16	My question concerns the amendment. I got that at 2:21 p.m. That's fine, and that's fine. But first I have a procedural question about it and then I have a substantive question. This report of the Committee is dated 22 February 2017. We've been a long time. This committee did not carry out an overall assessment of the entire Parliamentary Survey Act. The committee has examined three parliamentary committees of inquiry in detail and made practical recommendations on the problems identified. So it is a question of whether it is time to table an amendment here now to a completely different part. And the question is whether the fundamental issue raised here by Mr Van Gent, namely the right of family change, would not really deserve a separate discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u17	Firstly, I apologise for the delay in tabling the amendment. I was actually assuming that this would be dealt with in two instalments. On the one hand, Mr Van Nispen is right: this may require a very separate discussion. We are open to this in itself. On the other hand, this was mentioned in the 2008 review. In particular, the government made explicit reference to this in its letter of 20 June. I have no knowledge that the committee has responded further to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u18	I am pleased to hear Mr Van Gent say: I am open to having a separate discussion on this. That is what I am open to, and I think that would be a good thing. But of course it will not help to table an amendment now, because that debate will have to be held this afternoon, so we have received the amendment a little late. Apology accepted, by the way. No problem; that can happen. But I do not think that this separate debate should take place here this afternoon, because I would find that careless. After all, I have not been able to go into it and I have not been able to consult outsiders on this. So that becomes complicated, so I would ask Mr Van Gent to reconsider the amendment. But I now turn to my substantive question, Mr President. This is fundamental. Of course, a parliamentary inquiry is not a criminal trial, but it is a matter of truth. That is a very different point of departure. So I do not think that we can then say one-on-one that we should include the family change right as it applies in criminal law, also in the Parliamentary Survey Act, not even because this committee has not found that this is a problem at the moment. Committees of Inquiry deal with this prudently, the Public Prosecutor's Office deals with it prudently, there is a possibility of hearing in private, so this is not a problem at the moment. So is Mr Van Gent prepared to withdraw his amendment under the promise that we will indeed have a separate discussion on this, precisely because it is so fundamental?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u19	It is indeed a matter of principle. And indeed this is not criminal law, Mr Van Nispen is absolutely right. Anyway, of course, it's a fictional situation. However, on fundamental grounds, we do believe that you should not therefore make family members part of the investigation and interrogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u20	But there are differences of opinion on this, precisely because the parliamentary survey is about truth finding. It is the supreme means that we can use here to get the bottom stone up. I very much hope that Mr Van Gent will think carefully about whether an amendment, which is really very basic and very fundamental, is at present doing justice to the work of this committee. Would it not be better to choose another means, such as a question to the Minister or a motion? That would be better than changing the law, because then there's no going back. It is precisely in the interests of this careful and fundamental discussion that I really would ask Mr Van Gent to come back to this in a moment, and perhaps in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u21	I would first like to await the reaction of the committee and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u22	Very good. Thank you. Mrs Özütok of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a special moment. Today, I would like to say at last, we are talking about a special initiative legislative proposal by members of various groups to amend the Parliamentary Survey Act. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating all the initiators and the committee staff on their work. Thank you very much for that. I myself am also involved in some of the own-initiative laws and know that it is sometimes very difficult to work on a legislative proposal in addition to the regular Chamber work. Thank you very much again. Mr. Chairman. The Parliamentary Survey Act is the elaboration of an important constitutional right that we as a parliament have to do our job. In the past, parliamentary surveys have been carried out by this Chamber on a number of important issues in order to really get to the bottom of these issues and to hear other people under oath. From most of the surveys conducted over the past decades, several recommendations were made to improve the scope of the right of inquiry. The evaluation committee has written a comprehensive report on how the right of inquiry works and how it could be improved. Several recommendations are now before the Chamber, so that we as a parliament can exercise the right of inquiry even more effectively in the future. That is a very good thing with regard to GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. My group has a few specific questions to the authors about the proposal before us. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators state that they have not transposed all the recommendations resulting from the evaluation into a provision in the present legislative proposal. Can they go into more detail as to why they have specifically included these points and other points in the legislative proposal? The evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey Act and the legislative proposal before us are not an overall assessment of the law. This is understandable from the fact that no major problems have been identified in the functioning of the law. However, there is another concern of my group which goes a little further than the amendments before us and which I would like to mention here. That is the chapter on how to ensure that substantive recommendations resulting from a parliamentary survey and embraced by the government are actually implemented. It is not always easy for us as a Chamber to check the state of play with regard to certain recommendations. Can the initiators and the minister, who is here as an advisor, reflect on this? Do they recognise this concern and, if so, how could this proposal be improved? I look forward to responding to the initiators. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Kuiken of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr. Chairman. I also congratulate the initiators of this bill. I would also like to congratulate those who were on the committee but who have now left the Chamber, because they too have spent a great deal of time in drawing up the legislative initiative proposal. It is an important legislative proposal, because it concerns the parliamentary survey, which is the hardest instrument we have as a Chamber. It is therefore a good thing that this committee has carried out an investigation into how this instrument, this heavy substance, can be improved on the basis of the experience gained so far. It is also a good thing that not only now but also in the future we are looking at the way in which we use our instruments. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I still have a few questions. How do we keep a structural view of the changing world? After all, the parliamentary survey continues to change, but so does the world around us. Previously we had post, policy notes and e-mails, now we have WhatsApp, Telegram, Signal and perhaps all kinds of other things we don't know about yet. How can we also integrate these new forms of mail into the way in which a parliamentary survey works or should be able to work? I also have a question about the experience gained by the parliamentary interrogation committees. To what extent do the deadlines and procedures that we have at present still fit in with the urgency of the interrogation committee? Mr President, my third question concerns the secret pre-session. To make it very explicit: is this under oath and to what extent can you still use information from such a preliminary discussion in the public part of a parliamentary survey? Mr President, my fourth question concerns the ratio behind the waiver of confidentiality. This may be granted to officials and employees. How does it work exactly? Does it only apply to them, or does it also have far-reaching consequences for, for example, a director or a ruler? I think I just need more information on the exact functioning of the confidentiality waiver. Mr. Chairman. A parliamentary inquiry takes place under oath, but what instruments do we have if people do not comply with the rules we have agreed on? Then how is cooperation with our criminal justice framework? How's that going together? At the same time, a parliamentary inquiry sometimes affects criminal law, because everything shared in public under oath can no longer be used in criminal matters. I myself happen to have tabled a bill with a number of colleagues on the fight against criminal motorcycle gangs and organised crime. If we hear a police commissioner under oath, how much does that have to do with a criminal case? What about the connection? What experiences do we have with that? What lessons can we draw from this? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answer. I wish the authors every success. Once again, I would like to congratulate the committee members on taking the initiative to consider, renew and prepare the parliamentary inquiry for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u26	Very well, thank you. That response will take place immediately. No? You need ten minutes, I understand. Well, then those questions from Mrs. Chicken will cause a certain panic in trade union K. You can't resign. Then I'll suspend for ten minutes. I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u27	I call Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Few people look at a skater sharpening his skates. We'd rather watch the ice skating game. But if your material isn't in order, you can never win. This committee here is the skating sharpener. We have worked on our material in small rooms and behind desks for years. But it was also a thank-you task, Mr President-in-Office, and you do not have to feel sorry for us because we were allowed to use our most important political means, namely the parliamentary inquiry. Mr Van Nispen already spoke about it: ten years ago, our country was attacked by an economic crisis. This led to a survey under the chairmanship of Jan de Wit. The report of this parliamentary survey made good recommendations for the financial system, but also for the functioning of the parliamentary survey. Similar comments were made in two subsequent surveys on housing corporations and the Fyra. The survey is our most powerful tool. We will use it if all other means prove inadequate. It is also a means of the Chamber as a whole, which transcends the individual members and also the party colors. It is the last means that this Parliament can use to carry out its supervisory task. If this means fails, Parliament will be empty-handed. First of all, I would like to thank the members of this broad committee: Mr Van der Linde, Mr Nijboer, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Sneller. I would also, of course, like to thank the former Members: Mrs Vermeij, Mr De Rouwe, Mr Koolmees and Mr Van Vliet. Of course, I am most grateful for our support. I am not going to say that it was mainly those who did the work, but that is of course the case. Thank you very much to Mr Roovers, Mrs Verbruggen-Groot, Mr Benard, Mrs Bruin-Bergs, Mrs Harpe and Mr Loeffen. Previously, this committee has proposed a new parliamentary means: parliamentary interrogation. We see that this means has also been applied in practice and are curious how this short-term but in-depth investigation by interrogation under oath will help us as a Lower House to do our work better. Mrs. Kuik referred to this as well. Mr. Chairman. As far as the parliamentary inquiry is concerned, I can tell you a great deal about all the questions that have been asked by the Committee of Inquiry, the way in which we have worked and the information we have gathered. But that too, I think, is looking at another skater sharpening his skates. Moreover, everything is described in detail in the report we have produced for you. In addition to the report, we have made some proposals for amending the Parliamentary Survey Act and the Parliamentary Research Scheme. These proposals are before us today for adoption or for decision-making. It also includes a modalities scheme which can serve as a practical guide or operational framework for future surveys. The committee gives 23 opinions. Some are of a practical nature and relate to obtaining copies and documents, access to documents and access to documents. We have also included opinions on supervisory confidential information, the right to change and the support of witnesses and experts. There are also opinions on the position of witnesses, international cooperation and the cooperation of EU officials and institutions, as well as on the importance of the State. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Den Boer, in particular, have asked specific questions about this. The three surveys we have examined have repeatedly shown dissatisfaction with the way in which the government deals with this interest. There was a shared view that too often information was not or only confidential. Nor was it always clear why this interest was invoked. On the one hand, it is, of course, very important that certain information should not become public or in any case not be publicly shared when the interest of the State is at stake. On the other hand, however, this Chamber must be able to take note of all the information in a parliamentary inquiry. It is not for nothing that the Chamber is using this heavy and constitutional means. In the case of a parliamentary inquiry, recourse to the interest of the State should be possible only in the case of information which the Cabinet considers to be not at all capable of being shared with a committee of inquiry, not even confidential. In practice, therefore, this will only be possible in very exceptional situations. Such a refusal will have to be duly justified so that this motivation can also be examined by the Committee of Inquiry. In the event of disagreement, consultations will take place between the Cabinet and the Committee of Inquiry, including a balance of interests. In the event that the Committee of Inquiry considers that failure to obtain information constitutes an obstacle to the proper conduct of a survey, for its own functioning, the Committee may inform the Chamber thereof in the interim. It is then up to the Chamber or, if so, how it will then contact or force the Minister to give that information. In doing so, we strongly support the otherwise usual relations between the Chamber and the Cabinet. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Den Boer, as well as Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Özütok, asked for further clarification. The report proposes to future committees of inquiry to work with three procedures for obtaining information: request for a copy of documents, access to documents or access to documents. Mr Van Nispen asked about the 2002 information protocol. The recommendation is to stop, especially since the three committees of inquiry, financial system, housing corporations and Fyra, have all shown that that does not work. So this is what we want to put in place for that. Our recommendation is to stop. These modalities should be seen as a further elaboration of Article 6 of the Act. The report explains why it is not desirable to include in the law the possibility of confidential disclosure of information to committees of inquiry. Mrs Den Boer specifically asked for this, and I believe Mrs Özütok too. In fact, the power of committees of inquiry to request unbiased documents simply remains the legal basis. That is why we have not included confidential information in this legislative proposal, not least because the Court of Auditors has very important principles of public access to information and control. Moreover, the report also deals with almost all Members asking for the Court's right of information under Article 68 of the Constitution, say our ordinary right to information. In fact, the extent of the government's obligation of information under Article 68 is not different from that of a parliamentary inquiry, at least not fundamentally. Therefore, the opinions to the committees of inquiry may also provide guidance on the working methods of parliamentary committees of inquiry, the normal committees of inquiry in the Lower House or the Chamber in a regular sense. In fact, information or documents are provided to the Court at regular intervals, subject to confidentiality. So this could also be a good handle for that. Mrs. Kuik and Mrs. Den Boer had questions about the closed pre-session. A person with whom a preliminary interview is held shall have a duty of confidentiality, but shall be prohibited from disclosure. I can imagine that this would require further explanation. The difference between an obligation of confidentiality and a prohibition of disclosure lies in the following. People who are spoken to are often employees or civil servants and are therefore employed within a company or ministry. In the light of the relationship of authority, the practice is that there is a small discussion within these organizations about what has been exchanged with the Committee of Inquiry. There is nothing wrong with that in principle. The sharing of information within the organisation should therefore remain possible, but subject to conditions. A confidentiality obligation would make this impossible, and so we will refrain from introducing it. However, it is not intended to disclose the information discussed in the preliminary interview. This could be detrimental to the research interest of the Committee of Inquiry in question. That is why we have opted for a ban on disclosure, because if there were a confidentiality obligation, for example, an official would no longer be able to give information to the minister, even though he is responsible. With this prohibition of disclosure, we can do this. Mrs Den Boer has also asked about cases where a changing ground can be invoked. Recourse to a change of grounds actually means that a committee of inquiry does not receive any information at a point where it considers it necessary. The failure to justify recourse to a change of grounds can therefore cause damage to the investigation. Part of the investigation can then not be done. It is therefore very important for such professions to be properly justified by providing sufficient insight into why the law does not allow the claim to be met. The Committee of Inquiry can only then make a balance between the different interests involved and then maintain, amend or even withdraw its claim altogether. There have been several committees of inquiry which have found that recourse to a change of grounds has not been justified or has not been justified, so it has not been argued. Of course, this is not desirable in view of the importance of research. That is why we have included this in the legislative proposal. Examples have also been asked for, among others, by Mrs Den Boer. We can imagine, for example, that when a company relies on the fact that the information requested concerns business confidential documents, it at least motivates the way in which business interests are harmed by the provision to the Committee of Inquiry. It then depends on the type of documents and the content of those documents how far they should go, but the Committee of Inquiry must at least be sufficiently clear as to what the expected negative effects may be. Otherwise, the committee will not be able to make a good balance of interests. However, in certain other grounds of change, such as medical professional secrecy, less justification will be needed, given the absolute nature of the grounds for change. It is, of course, up to the Committee of Inquiry to assess whether the justification is correct. Mrs Den Boer asked an interesting question about the right of entry. In her response to Mrs Den Boer's proposal, the Minister clearly explains why she finds this problematic, although this has never been used. Article 7 of the Parliamentary Survey Act lays down the power to enter homes without the consent of the resident, but with the permission of the judge. As in the case of the current Parliamentary Survey Act in 2008, the Minister is now asking for this to be deleted for two reasons. Firstly, there would be no need and secondly, a possible commitment would be a restriction on the constitutional protection of house law, which the Minister considers should not be carried over lightly. We want to respond briefly on both points, firstly to the need. As regards the need for jurisdiction, the power has not been exercised since the entry into force of the law in 2008, but this does not mean that it may not be necessary in the future. It cannot be ruled out that a future committee of inquiry needs this. The removal of the right of entry could lead, unexpectedly and unintentionally, to a future committee of inquiry not being able to carry out its investigation properly. We do not always know what the future will bring. I refer, for example, to the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial System. Who could have predicted the credit crisis which made it absolutely necessary for this committee to be able to see very sensitive information from supervisors? At the time, no provision was made for this in the legislation; fortunately, that is how it is now. So we cannot see what is needed in the future. Then the point of lightness. Like the initiators of the Parliamentary Survey Act in 2008, we share the view that fundamental rights should not be reduced lightly. The same applies, of course, to the protection of house law. There is a legitimate interest in a democratic rule of law: a parliament must be able to find out the full truth by means of a survey on certain issues. In certain surveys, entry into homes may be necessary for the truth to be found. We don't know yet. It is also important that the law allows a committee of inquiry to use this power only in so far as it is relevant for the performance of its duties. This means that a committee of inquiry cannot use its competence to enter homes lightly. There are also all kinds of safeguards. For example, this can only be done by means of a judicial authorisation. The Court of Appeal shall, at the request of a committee of inquiry, grant entry unless the committee cannot reasonably conclude that the cooperation granted is necessary for the performance of its duties. So we do not see any reason to delete it at this stage. Mr Van der Molen and Mr Omtzigt have previously tabled two motions. They want to bring them back into this debate. We think that's very good. For starters, thank you for stopping. The motion in part No. 14 asks the President of the House of Representatives to ensure that documents which are kept confidential for inspection remain in the House of Representatives or that copies of them are always kept in the archives of the House of Representatives. This is based on information from the government to the Chamber and not on everything that is kept confidential for inspection. As far as we are concerned, this means that it is up to the Chamber to decide. The same applies to the second motion. On the basis of the recommendations of the Temporary Committee on Evaluation Act on the Parliamentary Survey, the Bureau is invited to make proposals for amending the Rules of Procedure on confidential documents. That seems very valuable and good to us. I will at least vote in favour. Mr Van Gent has asked a very interesting question about the family's right to change. By the way, he did not like the abbreviation of this committee, the Temporary Committee on Evaluation Act on the Parliamentary Survey, TCEWPE. I might agree with that, but for a game of scrabble, you've lost a lot of letters. Moreover, we have discussed in detail the right of family change and our predecessors have done so in 1991 and 2008. In fact, they have always come to the same conclusion. The objections raised at the time to such a scheme are still valid; nothing has changed in practice. First of all, it is important to note that a survey and a criminal trial serve very different purposes. Mr Van Nispen pointed that out. Surveys are about finding the truth on complex political or social issues; in criminal matters, it is about determining the guilt of criminal offences. That's a whole different thing. In the practice of the three surveys that we have examined, it also appears that this is a very good combination, that it does not stand in the way of each other. Moreover, the law provides that witnesses should not be forced to participate in their own convictions by means of a parliamentary inquiry. For this purpose, the exclusion rule of Article 30 applies. This rule was already extended to more than one procedure during the previous revision of the law in 2008, not just criminal proceedings. This rule also applies not only to proceedings against witnesses themselves, but also to proceedings against others, for example their relatives. Furthermore, since 2008, committees of inquiry have not been allowed to provide information to third parties such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, unless it concerns perjury or bribery. In all other cases, this is not allowed. This legislative proposal, which is before us today, strengthens this regulation even further, so that there can be no misunderstanding about it in the future. So so far there has been no problem with this in the three surveys that have been conducted here. It's always solved well. We want to amend the law in such a way that we can at least ensure that this will not happen in the future. The provisions of Article 30 therefore work well in practice. We see that in criminal matters the judge does not allow evidence to be used if the police and the judiciary could only know about the material by following the interviews. So if they've followed the interviews and gotten a lead on them, then the evidence will be dismissed. The judge therefore strictly supervises this in the best interests of the witness. This is also apparent in practice. In current practice, committees of inquiry and the Public Prosecutor's Office always make good agreements with each other to avoid unnecessary obstacles to each other's investigations. That works, as we have seen in that investigation, to our satisfaction. A right of silence is therefore not necessary. There are also risks involved. The Minister himself pointed out the risk that the parliamentary inquiry would actually be subordinated to the criminal trial. In addition, it provides for further legalization. It would be a fundamental change in our right of inquiry, a fundamental change, the consequences of which are currently very difficult to see. It would be obvious that the general importance of truth finding and in-depth investigation by a parliamentary committee of inquiry is directly and in the heart of this. We also point out that the right of silence will not help a witness in all cases, the objective that Mr Van Gent probably has. By not answering a question from a committee of inquiry by appealing to the right of silence because you fear that it will expose your neighbors to criminal prosecution, you cast suspicion on them in a certain way. By appealing to that changing ground, you are already giving away information. The risk of public condemnation in these cases will only increase. The Minister also refers to this. We can impose restrictions on a committee of inquiry for the protection of witnesses, but we do not want and cannot impose restrictions on the free press in this country. We therefore believe that both witnesses and research are far better off if, in practice, the risks to witnesses are explicitly addressed and if necessary measures are taken. And that is exactly the recommendation of the committee with that ugly name TCEWPE. And it must be, because the law has an unambiguous principle of proportionality in the use of investigative powers. If a witness outlines or concerns certain risks prior to the hearing, for example during a preliminary interview, then the committee must deal with them carefully: is it really necessary to question a witness, is it really necessary to ask certain questions, is a closed hearing in which the statement remains confidential or an interview without recording images and sound perhaps an option? Witnesses can therefore count on committees of inquiry to take their concerns seriously and think carefully about them. And, finally, Mr President, this can best be done in the preliminary stage of the investigation, so that the risk of public condemnation can be avoided. Experience shows that this is true in any case for the three previous surveys........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But it is also good to emphasise this in public and for all of us. It is also in the interest of an effective survey that witnesses feel as free to cooperate as possible. In the final case, in the final case, the judge may give a ruling if a witness refuses to provide the requested cooperation and the committee decides to use coercive means. In the final case, therefore, and perhaps theoretically, there is always a possibility of a review here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u29	Is this the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u30	This is the end of the answer to Mr Van Gent's question. I had to take some time, because it's a rather complicated matter. It has to do with our research, but it has to do with it only indirectly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u31	We appreciate that. Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u32	You state that the use of the right of silence can also place suspicion on someone and that it is therefore better that there is no right of silence. Do you not think that the person in question should be able to make the assessment of whether or not to cooperate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u33	Yeah, you can. With this change of law, we protect witnesses and experts much better. That has to do with truth finding. A purpose of a parliamentary inquiry, unlike a criminal case, is not to condemn anyone. This applies to the Committee of Inquiry and the public hearing, but this also applies, of course, to the vulnerability of people in the media. Therefore, it is much better, as a committee of inquiry, to give witnesses/experts, including family members, good assistance, to remind them of their rights, such as the rights of assistance, and to ensure proper preparation. In the extreme, a committee of inquiry may, if it thinks it really needs a witness, but it also sees that there are unnecessary major risks of disclosure, always decide on a closed hearing, whereby the information obtained is not disclosed and can only be used as background information. Mr Van Gent must be aware that it is a very serious breach of the right of inquiry when it is not decided by the committee itself. If a witness himself insists on refusing, then it is not the case that the committee of inquiry says 'it must'. If the Committee of Inquiry indicates that this information is necessary in order to carry out the investigation and to be able to find the truth on behalf of a majority of the House of Representatives and still refuses a witness or expert, it can still be submitted to the judge. So he can always do one last test. This is a system that has so far been very successful in all three surveys, sometimes involving a large number of criminal investigations during these surveys.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u34	Let there be no misunderstanding that I am very attached to this truth finding and to the right of the Chamber to conduct such deep research. From your answer, I understand that there is some sort of protection in criminal law cases, in the sense that you do not put family members in a bad light.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u36	But even if it is not a matter of criminal law, you may wonder whether it is desirable to ask family members for a committee of inquiry, in which you could harm the position of a partner, a loved one, a child or a father. Do you think that should be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u37	That is up to the Committee of Inquiry itself. If we do not leave that to the Committee of Inquiry itself, it is a fundamental violation of the right of inquiry. So we should leave that to the Committee of Inquiry itself, with this investigation and these recommendations specifically calling for attention to be paid to the support of witnesses, to the assistance of witnesses and to the protection of witnesses and experts. There may be a questioning in private if necessary. The information may be held from public publications. Eventually, a judge can judge it. That, I think, is all much more powerful and it has proved workable in practice. Then such a familiar right of change will not add anything to that. We would point out, however, that if you did do this, public refusal would also represent a very vulnerable position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u38	This protection is excellent and I am totally in favour of it, but basically it remains that the witness in question does not have the right to say 'in this case I do not want to cooperate', while there may be a lot of cases where a witness wants to cooperate, including in relation to family members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u39	Yes, but then we are dealing with the right of parliamentary inquiry. We don't just do that. That requires a majority of the House of Representatives saying: something is going on here that really needs to be sorted out. It is of course also about an investigation according to own observation. If we leave this to the witnesses, the parliament just can't do its job. Then the means of the parliamentary survey that we are now trying to tighten up, the skates we are trying to sharpen, will in practice be undermined. But we say in the report, in the report and here too, that members of a parliamentary committee of inquiry also have a responsibility for the people they are going to question. That applies to assistance. This applies to a decision to seek information in private, because in the extreme, one can even decide to conduct an interview in private. And of course, you can always refuse. Mr Van Gent asks: can you refuse? Yes, you can always refuse, but then the Committee of Inquiry has the right and duty to refer it to the judge. So if there is a contradiction, then it is up to the judge to make an assessment, where in practice the fact that it is a parliamentary survey will be a heavy one. During Mr Van Nispen's interruption, Mr Van Gent also said that it is indeed a point of principle which is at the heart of the Parliamentary Survey Act. He also said that there have been no practical problems so far. He also said that it might require a separate discussion. That is why we would like to ask for this proposal in the Amendment No. 11 not to do so at this time, but to wait, or if necessary to take the initiative for an overall assessment of the Parliamentary Survey Act. We have looked at how the committees of inquiry on the financial system, housing corporations and Fyra have worked with the current law of 2008. We have been created by you to look at the recommendations made by those three committees of inquiry on the practical working methods based on that law. That is why we have made these recommendations, proposals and opinions. We have not made an overall assessment of the law itself, and it is necessary to be able to make such a proposal. That is why we do not think that this is the right place for Mr Van Gent's amendment, which includes this discussion, this proposal and this practical legislative proposal. That would require a separate discussion, in which we could examine this and discuss it with each other. I have a few short things to say. Mrs Özütok asked: how can the Court monitor the implementation of the recommendations? Well, of course, that's mainly up to the Chamber itself. It also depends on the type of research and recommendation, which form of monitoring is desirable. Sometimes a bill follows through the Chamber. In the case of other recommendations, the Chamber may regularly ask the Minister specifically about the state of play. This also fits within the framework of Article 86 of the Constitution. Mrs. Kuik had a number of very specific questions. The procedures surrounding the parliamentary questioning are going to be evaluated in some time. So that's what we're gonna do. I think there's been one now, but they're still coming. "Can the information from a preliminary interview be used in a public hearing?" Well, in response to Mr Van Gent, I hope I have indicated this: no, that always remains confidential. This is not under oath and is entirely voluntary, and it is also necessary to prepare such a survey properly. Mrs Kuik, and I would also like to say to Mr Van Ghent that, in practice, there are always good agreements on a possible co-operation with criminal cases. So far there have been no problems at all with the Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to prevent the inquiry and the criminal case from getting in the way of each other. Mrs Kuik asked for the waiver of the obligation of professional secrecy. That is what I hope to have discussed in relation to Mrs Den Boer's question. Can a cabinet stay... Oh, we answered that, too. Finally, Mr Van Nispen asked: is Article 40 of the law inadequate? No, it's about archiving and we didn't notice any problems. Finally, Mr President. The opinions we present to you are based on practice. They are a concrete answer to the questions put to the Chamber by the last three parliamentary committees of inquiry. We are convinced that this report, as well as the legislative amendment and amendment of the parliamentary investigation system, including the modalities we have drawn up, will facilitate the work of future committees of inquiry. We are, of course, also aware that a long-term, comprehensive and politically sensitive study such as a parliamentary survey is never entirely applicable. Therefore, future surveys will continue to raise questions and require evaluations. That's okay, that's okay, that's okay. As skaters always sharpen their skates, so will the House of Representatives have to continue to think about its instruments. This is the only way to stay sharp as a chamber and prevent our resources from getting blunt. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u40	What a lovely literary ending. In the second term, I hope for a slightly more explicit appreciation of the Van Gent amendment (34683), No. 11).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u41	That's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u42	Now you're giving away the cliff hanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u43	And with some emphasis, we have to say, because this really, really, really hits the core of the Parliamentary Survey Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u44	Heavyly dissuaded, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u45	Yes, very firm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u46	Well, Mr. Van Gent. I thank Mr Van Raak. We are going to listen to the Minister in her capacity as advisor to the committee with the very long name. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. That's right. I am indeed here as an advisor and am therefore, as Mr Van Raak just whispered to me, positioned in the corner. And that's very appropriate. Mr. Chairman. I, of course, have taken note with interest of the legislative proposal and the amendment of the Parliamentary Survey Act 2008. I too would very much like to express my appreciation, first of all for the work of the temporary committee that carried out the evaluation, and then for the initiators who drew up the present legislative proposal. It is good to recall that the competence to conduct a survey has been laid down in Article 70 of our Constitution since 1848. Since then, the House of Representatives has exercised this right twenty times. As Mr Van Raak said in his fine metaphor: the best skaters do sharpen their skates themselves. It is therefore in the best tradition of the Chamber that it should give more details of its own constitutional competence to conduct a parliamentary inquiry. The current law of 2008 also originates from an initiative law. My expectation is that the proposed changes will help to achieve an even more efficient working method for future parliamentary committees. I would like to dwell in my speech on two elements of the legislative proposal which are also of great importance to the cabinet: the closed preliminary discussion and the obligation to state reasons. They've just been on the table. In addition, I would like to highlight two points, which the cabinet has already said could be reconsidered, which it has just raised, namely the right of family change and the right of entry. Let me start with those final points. They have already been raised in the examination of the proposal for the Parliamentary Survey Act 2008. At that time, the cabinet advocated the inclusion of a right of change in the law and against the recognised authority to enter homes without the consent of the resident. These points were also raised in the First Chamber. A motion was tabled on this subject, which was also adopted in the First Chamber (30415, letter J). It called for a more detailed settlement of these two issues. The cabinet then urged the House of Representatives to implement this motion, on which the Chamber indicated that it wanted to gain experience with the new law first and then look at it. In the meantime, ten years have passed since the entry into force of the law. The cabinet therefore reminded the Chamber of the points raised at the time. First of all, the family's right to change. That is what the amendment has just been discussed. I would like to stress that an interrogation by a committee of inquiry really has a public inquisitory character. This could, therefore, unintentionally lead to public condemnation. It is up to the Committee of Inquiry to decide whether the hearing is to be conducted in private. That's not up to the witness. In addition, the separation from criminal law is not waterproof, despite the exclusion clause. Inclusion of this right is therefore a matter of principle for which the reason is not to incriminate the protection of the right, yourself and your neighbors. Of course, we know that principle in law. So the amendment responds to that concern. The second point at the time concerned the inclusion of a power to enter into dwellings without the consent of the resident with a judicial authorisation. The Council of State had already recommended that this power should not be incorporated into the law when the 2008 Parliamentary Survey Act was created because the Council was not convinced of the need. If the power is exercised, that is a restriction on the right of the person concerned to live as protected by Article 12 of the Constitution. The report of the evaluation committee of the Second Chamber states that the jurisdiction to enter has not been taken into account because no use has been made of it. That would confirm the point of the Council of State, namely that there still seems to be no need for this power in the law. However, I have just heard Mr Van Raak say that he cannot rule out the possibility of using this power in the future. Then I come back to the fact that that is a restriction of the protection of house law. Mr. Chairman. Once I have underlined these two points again, I come to the legislative proposal that is before me with practical questions relating to the survey. Very good. First of all, I would like to say one thing about the obligation to state reasons for using the grounds for change. I would like to mention in particular one of the grounds for change in the law, namely the importance of the State, which can be invoked by ministers, State Secretary and civil servants. The cabinet's line on this point is reflected in letters to your Chamber from 2002, 2016 and the explanation given to this term: "the importance of the State." This shows that the Cabinet and your Chamber consider that such an appeal requires a statement of reasons. The Christian Union Group also drew attention to this in the written round. In the note following the report, the initiators write that a refusal requires a detailed statement of reasons. A refusal of information can, of course, have very different grounds, such as state security or guaranteeing the unity of the Crown. I can imagine that certain cases, by their very nature, do not lend themselves to a very detailed justification. Therefore, the Cabinet takes the view that the obligation to state reasons in the basis does not alter the existing practice, which is motivated by the interest of the State by the person in charge. Finally, the decision of the hearing. Initially, the bill contained a provision to impose confidentiality on everyone in relation to the preliminary discussion. The Advisory Section of the Council of State felt that this made it de facto impossible for officials to take part in the preliminary discussion because they were unable to inform their minister. Following this opinion, the provision has been amended to allow officials to inform their minister. Mr Van Raak has just agreed to that. That is an adjustment which the cabinet also welcomes. Mr. Chairman. It is not up to me, and I will not do so at all, to give an assessment of the motions tabled. But I would like to add two more points to the motion, also because I was standing here when Mr Van der Molen tabled the motions. First of all, of course, it is always very important that the obligation of information towards Parliament should be as broad as possible. So that is the starting point for Parliament to be informed in public, because only then can the Chamber also exercise its controlling role in public. So it must be an exception if it's confidential. If documents are provided or made available for inspection in a confidential manner, this is once again an exceptional situation and there is therefore a reason for doing so. In the motion in part No. 15 (28362), the Bureau is asked to arrange for the Court to decide on the way in which it deals with confidential information or documents. I would just like to say that there is an exception. In that case, we are not free to provide information in public, for example because of a legal obligation of confidentiality. Where the confidentiality of information is no longer a fact, it may affect the way in which that confidential information is provided to the Court. The motion in part No. 14 (28362) asks the President of the Chamber to ensure that documents which are given confidentially for inspection, whether or not in a copy, remain in the House of Representatives. This concerns the regular movement of information to the Chamber. Temporary access to documents in the Chamber is a customary way of providing information in parliamentary surveys, for example, but the request does not see it. He sees on the other part. The application may, however, have an impact on the way in which documents are given to the Court. You can imagine that in that case, the government will revert to the modality in which documents are made available to the department. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mrs Özütok. She asked how it could be ensured that recommendations from parliamentary committees of inquiry were implemented. That is, of course, a very important point. In essence, it is very simple: if the government undertakes to implement the recommendations, then the Chamber can assume that the government does so, and then the Chamber can appeal to the government at any time. Mr President, I have therefore made my comments and I hope I have answered the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u48	We appreciate that very much. Then I'm gonna see if there's a need for a second term. In any case, Mr Van Nispen needs it. That is why I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u49	I would like to thank the Minister for the advice. I would particularly like to thank the whole committee for the answer and for all the work that has been done. I actually didn't think it was so boring to look at a skater who sharpens his skates, but maybe I'm not entirely representative either. We should actually ask the people in the public gallery whether or not this was a boring debate. But of course it is a very important debate. I note that the President didn't think it was a boring debate either. That's a win, too. It is a very important debate, because it is about our most powerful means: truth finding. The means of the parliamentary survey can be important for people's confidence in politics, precisely because it is not about incidents, about the delusion of the day. It takes a long time, but then you also have some, namely hearty truth finding, very deep truth finding, the bottom stone above: what really happened to get to the bottom of problems? We have discussed the importance of the State as a ground for refusal to provide information. That can indeed only be done in exceptional situations. This is very important, not only for the parliamentary committees of inquiry, but also for parliamentary research and for the regular work of the Chamber. Then there is Mr Van Gent's amendment to item No. 11 (34683). We still hope he will say: this is such a fundamental discussion; I will not put the amendment to the vote. But if he does put it to the vote, I will, of course, vote against it. I don't think it's a good idea. I do not think it should be in this debate, either, without having been able to have this whole fundamental and complex discussion to a large extent. As far as I am concerned, it would really deserve a separate discussion. We are going to vote on the law and on the regulation, but to underline the importance of this whole report, I will table the next motion with some colleagues. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the mandate given by the Chamber to the Temporary Committee for the Evaluation of the Parliamentary Survey (TCEWPE);]] [[Considers that this committee, and also its official staff, has carried out a thorough investigation and laid down its findings in a clear report;]] [[expresses her great appreciation for this;]] [[endorses the analysis of the report;]] [[adopt the conclusions and recommendations and invite the Presidium to implement them;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Özütok and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34683-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u50	D66 shares the praiseworthy words for this temporary committee in the motion. But I would very much like to ask Mr Van Nispen what exactly is the added value of his motion in relation to the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u51	The motion is wider. There's a very thick report. I can see it from here: the committee's thick report. In fact, we say here: this is a good and thorough report and we accept the conclusions and recommendations. We are indeed going to vote on the law and I am also thinking about the regulation next Tuesday. However, there are remaining recommendations and conclusions in the report, including those addressed to the Chamber itself, to the Bureau. So I think it is very good and I think it would be a very nice signal if we, as a Chamber, were to say 'yes' to this good work of this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u52	I hear that this is a good practice in the Chamber, so we are going to discuss it for a while. Very well, but I would like to ask Mr Van Nispen if he can give an example of a recommendation which he thinks should be passed through the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u53	I praised the committee for the entire report. I think there's 23 opinions in there. I myself did not find any advice that I disagree with, because otherwise I would have asked a question about it. I have considered the importance of the state in detail. I think that's what my input has shown. Of course, I am committed to traditions and customs, but that should not in itself be the reason for the motion. I think it is good that we have sharpened the skates as we have done here today and that we are indeed underlining this in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u54	But the motion goes a little further than the normal sense of appreciation, which is indeed tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u55	You can see that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you, however, for the clear explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u57	Very good. Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Van Nispen. Mrs Den Boer does not need to speak in second term. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you, Mr President. As you have noted, we can wholeheartedly support the motion tabled by the SP in order to demonstrate from the Chamber that the Committee's work is fully supported by the Chamber. Then I think that a ruling from the Chamber would be wise for further elaboration. The Minister has made a number of comments on the motions that I will be voting on together with Mr Omtzigt. I would like to make a brief comment on this. I understand the Minister's reaction from the cabinet's position on the position of the Chamber and on what the effects might be. The Chamber has a very fundamental obligation, also for its own archives, on the basis of the Archive Act. Not only for historical research, but also for times when we have to resort to everything that has passed through here, we simply have an obligation too. As a CDA, we believe that matters brought to the attention of the Chamber, if necessary in a copy, can remain in our archives. There is no doubt in our minds that care should be taken in this regard. That is precisely what we, as a Chamber, can lay down rules about ourselves. That is to strengthen the position of the Chamber. There are rather large discussions in the Chamber, which can also lead to an investigation at some point. When these documents are not available, we in the Chamber must monitor our information position. Hence the motion. I would like to underline that. The same applies to information and documents submitted to the Court for confidential treatment. In particular, I am referring to the purpose of the motion tabled with regard to the discussion with the Cabinet on how we deal with these documents. The Minister says: you should come visit us sometime. Well, that's exactly the kind of discussion that needs to be held. However, as far as the CDA is concerned, the Chamber will eventually end. That is what we are saying, and we must also do so in a clause. For there too a system must be applied which also regulates care in all objectivity. There are times when greater confidentiality is at stake and must also be observed, but that can be arranged. But in those discussions that are taking place, the Chamber must really stand out. That is why the CDA is tabling this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you. I would just like to mention the number of motions tabled by Mr Van der Molen, who had been tabled earlier and are now going to be put to the vote. Those are the motions 28362, No. 14 and No. 15. Well, then you'll all be conscious. Mr Van Gent, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mr. Chairman. I have also been asked how to deal with the amendments. I have listened carefully to my colleagues and I actually hear two things. On the one hand, I hear a procedural objection, of 'it is not the time', says Mr Van Nispen and 'not the place', says Mr Van Raak. I do not agree with that, because there is indeed extensive talk about the right to change, both in 2008 and now. The government has also pointed this out. I can, of course, wait for a temporary Committee on Evaluation Act on the Parliamentary Survey II, but I think this is the time to table this amendment. There have also been substantive objections from Mr Van Raak, who were very sharp. I would like to have another substantive discussion, but I do not know to what extent one is open to the arguments. I think it's just a clash between two very fundamental rights. On the one hand, the truth of Parliament and, on the other hand, the right that you must have to not have to testify against your neighbors. I know there are all kinds of safeguards and all kinds of protections, but I think that ultimately the person concerned will consider that right. Finally. I have heard Mr Van Raak. If this amendment really were to touch the right of inquiry at its heart and make the weapon blunt, if I really felt it that way, then I really wouldn't have filed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u61	Thank you. Mrs Özütok no longer wishes to speak, nor does Mrs Kuik. Then this was the second term on the part of the Chamber and I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Raak for a few final remarks. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you for all the compliments, even in the second term. These compliments apply to us, who are sitting in the front, but they apply especially to the people behind us, our staff, who have done a great deal of work for five years to get this tough subject right, to explain it to us so that we can get it right and make the right assessment and provide you with the right advice. Thank you very much again for that. There's been a huge job done here. Sharpening the skates: I am glad that Mr Van Nispen likes that very much. It fits him, too. Certainly as a marathon runner he is, of course, the one who has the perseverance of a parliamentary committee of inquiry... I like to think of it as an application that next time he may be chairman of such a beautiful committee, which is going to sharpen the skates. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the motion. In addition to the amendment of the law, the legislative proposal and the amendment of the arrangements for examining the House of Representatives, I think it is very good to approve as a Chamber the recommendations made in the report. At least we are all going to vote in favour and we hope that the other Members of Parliament will vote in favour. Mr Van der Molen made a number of comments on his motions. These motions were tabled at another time and in another debate, to which the Minister replied. We do not feel so called to sit among them and we would like to leave it to the Minister and Mr Van der Molen to discuss this further. This discussion also applies, of course, to the family's right to change. What we wanted to say is that in 2013 we were commissioned as a committee to evaluate the experience of the parliamentary committees of inquiry into the financial system, later housing and Fyra. They have made recommendations in terms of content, but also on the process, including on the functioning of the parliamentary survey. We have acted on these recommendations, carried out quite extensive research and gave them 23 opinions. We have therefore expressly not made an overall assessment of the Parliamentary Survey Act. That wasn't our job either. That law is only ten years old. We have looked at how the three parliamentary surveys have worked with this law, where there are practical problems and whether proposals for improvement can be made. A whole analysis of the Parliamentary Survey Act will undoubtedly come. The proposal for a family change right has been discussed before, but has not been incorporated into the law at that time. That is not what the legislators chose at the time. This will undoubtedly come back when an overall assessment of the Parliamentary Survey Act will be made. We do not think it is right, through our evaluation of how committees of inquiry dealt with this law in practice, to introduce a very fundamental point through an amendment, because we simply did not investigate it and did not have that debate in substance. If Mr Van Gent so wishes, that is of course his right, but then he himself should come up with a legislative proposal to amend the Parliamentary Survey Act. It will then have to go through the entire legislative process so that everyone can give advice, including from the Council of State. Then the House of Representatives can discuss it and we can table amendments to it if we consider it necessary. This point is so important and touches on the core of the Parliamentary Survey Act, which is far more than a practical effect, that it does not really fit into this. All due respect to Mr Van Gent that he wishes to raise the issue, but it is not really appropriate to do so here. I'd like to invite him a lot more to do that myself, so do it yourself. It seems to me that a very interesting discussion can then be held, not only on how parliamentary committees of inquiry work with the law, what we have examined, but on how the Parliamentary Survey Act itself works. That is another committee and another debate. We would very much welcome Mr Van Gent to start that debate, because now a bit of his thing is being put on our plate and that does not fit him. Having said that, I would like to thank the Minister very much for her advice. We did not agree on a number of points, but she had already understood that. As far as we're concerned, that's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u63	I thank Mr Van Raak for his contribution today and I thank the whole committee for its presence and for the great work that has been done in recent years. It's a committee with a long history. I would like to thank the many members of the committee and, of course, the Minister, who has been sitting in a corner today. We thank her for her advisory role. She's got a second term? I thought you'd laid your egg enough, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr President, thank you very much. I thought it might be a good idea to comment on Mr Van der Molen's remark about his motions and the relationship he made with the Archive Act. I was just pointing out the problem that may arise because the motion sees documents which are given confidentially or not in copies for inspection. It is stated above that the Chamber really decides how to fulfil its responsibility under the Archive Act. I understand that very well. These are, in principle, documents received by the Chamber and, according to the Archive Act, they are intended to reside with the Chamber. So the question is: when is that going to happen? At the time when these are confidential documents which the Chamber would temporarily have available to the Government, the minister concerned will remain responsible for those documents. I think we should just take a very good look at that, but I also tasted Mr Van der Molen's willingness to take a good look at it. I repeat that if there is no clarity about this or if there is a threat from the cabinet that responsibility for the confidentiality of documents can no longer be taken, a modality will arise whereby the documents will be made available for inspection in a different way, not in the Chamber. Once again, that is not my aim, and I do not think that is the aim of Mr Van der Molen and his motion. So we should just take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you. I'm just chewing on "we should look at it." The motion will, of course, be put to the vote and then something will happen to it. "And then we're gonna watch" I hear someone say. Clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-8.u66	I had already thanked Mr Van Raak, but do it again. I would also like to thank his committee and the official support. And thank you again to the Minister for her role this afternoon. Mr Van Raak is once again behind the chair. Is there anything he wants to say in closing? I think he's back at the microphone. There's gonna be another piece of poetry, so let's just close up real quick. I thank the participants in this debate and suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. Then we're gonna talk about driving.
