ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	We go to Mr Azarkan's questions on behalf of DENK about the report that young people pay 53% more premium for car insurance than two years ago because they are likely to be a risk group. I call Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, thank you. Yesterday we read in the Volkskrant that the premium for young people who want car insurance has risen by as much as 53% in two years. This premium is expressed in cash €1.266. This is an increase of €437 over two years. Young people are faced with increasing study costs, higher housing costs, if they are lucky enough to find a home, and now again with this extreme premium increase. A younger person will pay €1.266, while other groups, for example 65-plussers, will pay €368. Mr. Chairman. What we should not have is that driving becomes priceless and that driving becomes something only the rich can afford. Mobility is a basic right. DENK understands that the premiums should increase, but aren't they coughed up too unilaterally? I have some questions for the Minister. Where are the causes for this sudden increase in contributions over the past two years? Have the premiums been too low in recent years, so the years before? What did supervisor DNB do in this regard? What can the Minister do to improve supervision so that the premiums do not make these sudden shocks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. You won't hear me complain that I'm not here to be a guest. I come with large, if not very large regularity, but in Question Time I do make my debut today. So let me do my best! Mr. Chairman. I acknowledge the development that Mr Azarkan has outlined. The level of premiums and the acceptance standards of insurers are established on the basis of collected statistical data. This is not only the case with this type of insurers, but with insurers in full width. Let me say straight away about the cause, Mr Azarkan's first question. The car insurance market is very competitive. That is also why some people who do characterize themselves as a fighting market: a fighting market in which prices are relatively low and profit margins are small; some say they may have been negative or negative. Now you see a correction on that. This brings me straight to Mr Azarkan's second question: have the premiums been too low? It is good to highlight that DNB has for some time indicated that the premiums for the WA cover of car insurance are too low in relation to the loss burden. So you could see this as a correction. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Azarkan asked about supervision and how it could possibly be improved. It's not that simple. I'm not sure what perspective of action he's seeing anymore. Maybe he can help me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	This is also the first time that the Minister has asked the Member of Parliament again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	Oh, excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	That's okay, that's gonna make it livelier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	It's the Minister's first appearance. The Minister states that in the past the premiums of the providers were too low and that it is a fighting market. To what extent can it be justified that DNB did not then supervise and intervene? Because these young people now have to pay the price for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr President, at least it was an attempt at a rhetorical question. I note with Mr Azarkan that young people pay more and also significantly more premiums. Mr Azarkan goes wider and says: in the overall package of charges for young people, it is a very substantial sum. That's true in itself. At the same time, it is fair to recognise that young people are making a lot more accidents, that the number of accidents has also increased and that the degree of damage has increased by accident, among other things because the value of cars has increased. That must be translated into the insurance premium, whether we like it or not. The good news is, however, I would like to make it clear that everyone can do something about this in terms of the extent to which he or she drives damage. If you don't drive damage long enough, it translates into lower premiums. But the fact that insurers make a distinction on the basis of age is, I think, really justified if you compare the damage caused by young people with the damage caused by drivers in the age group above that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thanks for the answer. Just building on the Minister's reply: is he prepared to consider with the industry whether a structural solution can be devised, encouraging safe driving of young people and suggesting a sort of accelerated build-up of damage-free years? Second. In England, insurers offer policies that don't cover weekends and evenings. Those policies are pretty affordable. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the industry to see if such policies can be offered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	I wonder if that's necessary. I honestly don't think so. In particular, Mr Azarkan's first point is a very valid one, but my observation is that the Netherlands has been investing a lot of time and effort in campaigns, especially aimed at young people, on sensible and safe driving. In fact, I am already making a dangerous end of it in the area of my colleague from Infrastructure. Unfortunately, she's just gone, so she can't be with me anymore. My observation is that in recent years these campaigns have focused in particular on the use of smartphones in the car. I think that is quite right, because you can see in statistics that this is causing a great deal of misery. So I think the good news is that what Mr Azarkan is asking for is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	But then I'm gonna lose it. You say that young people can't do anything about it themselves. I ask whether the government can help them with this by providing information and by consulting the providers. The Minister says that this has been done extensively in recent years, but I conclude that this has not worked, because young people pay €1,266 and someone 25 years old pays €450.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	I tried to distinguish two things. Let me do that again. I tried to explain on the one hand what everyone, but especially the younger one, can do to avoid damage. Let us also be honest: the most important thing about damage-free driving is not that premium, but that you do not make accidents yourself and do not endanger the lives of other people. That should be the primary motive. The good side effect of this is that in the long term this will also lead to lower premiums. The second part of my reply saw another point, namely the information given to young people, but also to the population as a whole, about safe driving. My observation, however, is that the Netherlands has a long tradition of investing a lot of attention and money in this field. Think of campaigns about things like driving without alcohol, speed and smartphone usage. If Mr Azarkan has any further ideas on this, I really have to refer him to the colleague who has just left, because I cannot give him more than this type of answer. But I see Mr Koolmees sitting behind me. If he can still provide me with inspiration, I am of course highly recommended for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	I see you have to do it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I note, however, that nothing can actually be done for these young people in the short term and that this is actually due to their own behaviour, in particular because they also cause many accidents. I'm very sorry, because it's just a lot of money. It should not be the case that only a certain proportion of young people will be able to pay for this, or that they will register these cars in the name of their parents or grandparents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	I agree with Mr Azarkan on that last point. I recognise what he says and what it means for young people, but it is also a logical conclusion of this method. Once again, security is crucial. That is the primary motive, for reasons other than the premium alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you.
