ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue with the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. We were working on the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u2	I see Mr Pieter Heerma's turn is now on behalf of the CDA. I call Mr Pieter Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unemployment is falling and the economy is growing. The unemployment rate is even falling to a historically low point. More and more people are finding jobs. The number of sectors in which employers suffer from shortages is increasing considerably. At the same time, there remains the threat of growing division and of sham structures in our labour market. In the coalition agreement, agreements were made to do something about this. The Labour Market Act is in balance in the Chamber and we are going to deal with it from next week, starting with Monday in a round table and hearing. The need for this legislation, despite the sunny economic outlook, is beyond question to me. Not only do we know that after sunshine rain will come again, but also now the bad sides of division in the labour market are just visible. There is therefore a demand for staff in many sectors. The number of companies, Mr Wiersma, has already been mentioned by Mr Wiersma, who lacks staff and therefore does not belong to his production, is growing. But we also see an increased risk of long-term unemployment among older people. It's still hard to get back in the way once you're out. If you're out, you're out. In addition, among new and oldcomers you see a far too high chance to stay in the assistance. The great over-representation of non-Western immigrants in the assistance is worrying. With Eritreans and Somalis, it's even terrifying. For them, assistance has become too often a self-evident terminal. The question that arises is why older people and newcomers are not much used to remedy these deficits. Why is this sticking? Surely it is a bizarre paradox that employers of madness do not know where to get their staff today, while at the same time large groups have little or no chance of getting involved in the labour market? More will really have to be done for those groups of new and oldcomers for whom assistance is at risk of becoming a kind of basic income. During last week's legislative consultation I already discussed this with the Minister. The Minister then indicated that he would like to have this debate again if the Secretary of State were present. Newcomers and integration are more under his responsibility, but oldcomers and the Participation Act are more covered by the Secretary of State. Then I said I'll come back to it next week. So here's to it. I do not think it is social to accept that assistance for these people has become a terminal. As a municipality, if you don't do anything to change that, it borders on neglect as far as I'm concerned. We must therefore prevent this granite stock from continuing, but above all that there is a new granite stock in the pipeline. This in turn is the responsibility of newcomers to the Minister. It's not social not to intervene. Keeping benefits, flexibility, offering a basic job as a stepping stone to a full-time job: they are sensitive files, sensitive issues, but it has to be done. I think that there is not enough practice. I therefore ask both directors what they see as their responsibility to change that and whether they are prepared to make firm agreements with municipalities on this matter, for both the newcomers and the oldcomers. A somewhat smaller, but related subject is the VCA test in construction. I hear complaints and concerns about this from various quarters. I have heard from both refugee work and from employers and other stakeholders that the examination in itself constitutes a barrier for refugees to get to work. Now, of course, security is very important, but if the mode of examination is the reason why people do not intervene, when there are large staff shortages and employers are willing to give them a chance, then perhaps something should be done about it. That is why I ask the Minister to look at the possibilities of doing something about this and whether he is prepared to discuss this with the sector. Hopefully there are possibilities. At least I can see it. I consider the proposals on the wider functioning of the labour market laid down in the government agreement and reflected in the Labour Market Act in balance to be very important. Whether it's about the premium differentiation, tackling payrolling, the extended probation period, the transition fee from day one or the adjustment of the chain regime: I see a balance in that that definitely makes less flexible and more flexible. This narrows the gap between those who can participate in the labour market and those who are outside. That is a good thing. I understand that employers are happy with one half and not the other half and that the opposite is true for employees. That doesn't make it any less necessary to do both. So I also think that we should continue to do so. However, I do not think that is enough. The labour market of the future is changing more and more rapidly. More needs to be done on sustainable employability and training. There are also steps to be taken in the coalition agreement, but I believe that more is needed. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister about the state of play of the implementation of a motion that I tabled last year with Mr Van Weyenberg to actively support regional initiatives in the field of work and learning. What's the status of that? In different sectors, you see all kinds of initiatives to achieve individual training budgets. This is agreed in collective agreements. As you can see, employers and employees will soon see more that it is necessary to arrive at these individual learning accounts. The Minister sent a letter on this matter on Monday. If you read it correctly, you will see that it more or less recognises that the government is often a sta-in-the-way for this, as employers and employees also point out, and that legal and fiscal barriers are being created to actually get this good initiative off the ground. In the letter, the Minister states that he wants to continue to talk about this, but I actually think he should go a step further. Exploring is fine, talking is fine, but if you see that there are such collective agreements in sectors where the step we all want is taken, it should be encouraged. I am referring, for example, to the retail sector, which is known to be likely to change a lot for staff in the coming years, which will reduce the space available. If they want to invest in collective bargaining in this sector now in individual training ads, and if both employers, from the AWVN, and employees, from the CNV, ask for room to arrange this properly because care is better than aftercare, then I think that the Minister has a duty to see if this can be made more possible. Even if you do that in the form of pilots, it shows in practice that it works. So I would like to comment on that. Then the Academy of Crafts. Mr Wiersma has just mentioned this. It's a very nice practical example of something that started as a pilot. It shows that it works, that with very little money a new opportunity is offered to people who already have a career behind them and had the prospect of getting into assistance through the WW and staying in it until their retirement. Mr Wiersma spoke yesterday in RTL News about people with twinkling in their eyes, and you will find those people there every time you visit the Craft Academy. We have launched this initiative ourselves in the form of a pilot. We must now acknowledge that what we started two years ago is being completed too early. That has a big risk that we'll finish first and then conclude in two years' time that it was such a good idea that we're going to put it back on. That's what we're trying to avoid together. That is why, together with Mr Wiersma, I have tabled an amendment to extend funding so that, if we find that it was a very good idea after the evaluation, it is still running, rather than being phased out. I have one more question. I didn't think of that until yesterday. On Monday, in my letter, the Minister said that even in two letters, reference was made to the labour market initiatives that employers and employees are working on in the framework of the DWSRA. I am also concerned about this by the trade unions that promising initiatives are now being phased out, while only one and a half years from now are being evaluated. That too would be a shame, so I ask the Minister whether he would like to see whether there are indeed promising initiatives that should not be reduced but continued and whether he sees opportunities for doing so. I'd like an answer to that. Mr Wiersma also asked a moment ago about the money that we provided for in the budget last year for training for 50-plussers. Very little use has been made of this. Now the scheme is not very long, but the numbers were very low. The Minister describes that he sees it now attracts. I would ask the Minister whether he would like to go into a little more detail on what the reasons are for being more optimistic about it now and what he is going to do to ensure that it is actually used. 'Cause this is something that's really in demand. So if the amount is the problem, then maybe you should be able to do a little more. I'd say this money is there, this money is there for a good cause. I really want the Minister to confirm that it will be okay, or that he will take additional action to do so. He also sent a letter about volunteering at the WW. Several colleagues from various groups have often asked questions about this, on the basis of rather bizarre examples where volunteering was made impossible, whether it is a neighbourhood bus or a volunteer at a beautiful event. In any case, the letter he sent on Monday gives the impression that serious steps are now being taken, also on the basis of motions from different parties. However, I cannot draw from the letter how substantial that step is. So he would also like to indicate in this debate what is actually going to change in practice, so I think that almost all the groups present here have asked questions about this on the basis of examples. Anyone can be reassured that it is really going to improve. When it comes to false self-employment, especially at the bottom, we have a very big challenge there. We've been having discussions about that for years. When you read last Monday's letter about this, you can see that the progress of this is somewhere between cautious progress and growing delay. I see that the Minister is still trying to get that minimum rate off the ground. That is a very important part of the coalition agreement for my group. I also see that he finds that there are bumps on the road. They are there because of European law. That is what Mr Smeulders was talking about. But it also has to do with the passage about regular work and with the three months. However, if I read the letter correctly, the Minister at the end outlines an additional opportunity he would like to explore in order to achieve it. This is not based on an employment relationship, which should not be European law, but simply introduce a generic minimum rate, in which the three months of regular work and the employment relationship do not apply, but there is simply a minimum below which you should not be azzp'er. This sounds like a hopeful alternative route to achieve the same goal. I would like to hear from the Minister it is only one sentence in that letter why this can be done. Because it's worth a very sweet thing to me that we're gonna get this done. I think that the alternative route to explore next to it is very sensible, but I still have the question: why does this not run into European problems and why can this be? I would like to explain this further. About the enforcement aroundzzp, I didn't think the letter was enough if you look at what's lying there. Following the motion that we all tabled last year following the hearing with Deliveroo and the problems in the platform economy, 100 companies would really be visited. I still see a major intention there to do something. What is really going to happen in practice, in that area of enforcement, and what will we, as a Chamber, hear about what that will do? In fact, with the intense discussions we are having here, I think that we should also know how it works in practice and what these 100 companies show. I also think that we should be informed about this. If that can't be done publicly, then it's up to you. 'Cause then we can see what's really going on. So I would like to hear that it is really starting now and that we are well informed about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u4	In my opinion, Mr Heerma's legitimate concerns about progress, because last year we found this with the round table we had, with several sessions about companies that actually say: the rules as you apply them, sorry, we do not do that. I think Mr Heerma even said: I feel a little cheated here, something in those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u5	I said something a little more neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u6	Something more neat indeed, those are my words. Then I read: we're gonna figure it out, we're gonna do an investigation, we're gonna hear what that enforcement is doing. But I still get the feeling that nothing is actually happening right now. That is worrying after a year in which we actually think that we should be on top of this, politically broad, without political colour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr Van Dijk refers to a round table that we had with a company that suggested that they had done something fantastic that morning. When we all went there, from left to right, asking what that really meant, it turned out to be little in practice. At that time, I think we said quite widely that we felt fooled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u8	That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u9	It led to a motion. I believe that this motion was signed by all of us at the time. The cabinet has started working on this. Just before the summer, we received an answer to the question: what are we going to do to achieve more enforcement? It said: we're going to visit 100 companies; we're going to investigate them and we're going to bring up what's going on, what can't and what can't. When I read the letter we received this week, I have the impression that it is still in the preparatory phase. But I could be wrong. I would like an explanation from the Minister. I would regret this, since we are now six months away. I really think this should happen. So I would also like to hear from the Minister how we are actually going to look at these 100 companies, have that conversation and do that research. In addition, as a Chamber, I want us to be informed about what we are about to encounter. This helps us all in the debate on how we can actually tackle the false self-employment at the bottom, which is a thorn in the eye for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u10	I think that's both our concern. We both want to deal with false self-employment. We'll have to hear from the minister tomorrow exactly what's coming. But I would like to call on Mr Heerma to look for more roads, should this not be enough. The increased supervision of malice, on which the tax authorities could, in turn, enforce it, was also said: is it not a very complex legal road? So let's look for more roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u11	I always agree that there is a need to look for more roads. That is why I have just interrupted Mr Smeulders at the end of his speech when it comes to the False Constructions Act. But that's another subject. It is also about employees. That is not a solution here, but we must continue to search these paths together. They're legal, too. Hence my questions about the development of the alternative route to reach the minimum rate for zzp'ers. We will also have to work on this as legislators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I am going through the end of my speech very quickly. I have tabled a motion for a resolution for the autumn recess on payment of wages in the event of sickness (32716, No. 33). I understand that the Minister has not yet achieved this, as the retirement consultation has taken up a lot of time. He says that there will be before the end of the year. Is it really there for the Christmas tree? Does the Minister have any hope that this will work? It is a pity that it has not been possible to reach a pension agreement. Center flying forces now seem to be stronger than center searching forces. This is worrying, also for our polder model, because if center-flinging forces become too big, then it flies off the bend. I think it is very important, Mr Wiersma, that the sound of young people in the polder should also be heard. Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA and Mr Van Weyenberg have tabled a motion on this subject in the previous budget. As far as I am concerned, we should go a step further and increase the position of young people in the Economic and Social Committee, in order to ensure that the interests of young people are heard there, in addition to the old and old interests. Would the Minister like to discuss with the ESC how to increase the voice of young people and how the one-off initiative for future exploration can be repeated periodically? I've got half a minute. I didn't have one topic in my speech that I wanted to ask about. It concerns a point raised by Mr Van Kent. He has the amendment to item No. 29 on the bridging of the AOW age increase. I think his amendment goes too far, and I do not think it is directed enough, but it does touch a group that has been concerned about before in the Chamber, namely those who had disability insurance up to retirement age. They had insurance up to 65 years. Afterwards, the AOW age was increased. If they were already disabled, then they are a burning house and then they can no longer be insured. In any case, the Minister must reflect on Mr Van Kent's amendment. I would ask him to look very closely at whether this particular group, which is part of what Mr Van Kent is asking for, is not something to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Heerma went so fast. I would like to ask a question about the very first point he made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u16	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u17	It was about something I also mentioned in my contribution, namely getting people back into the labour market. We need everyone. Then we're talking about old and newcomers. That group is quite balanced; that is actually the interesting thing. Mr Heerma also said: I want agreements to be made with municipalities. That is good, and of course we have agreed to that, but what if some of the municipalities are already looking at these agreements in a different way and perhaps not doing what we want them to do, namely helping people get to work? If municipalities can cut people who do not want to be able to do so but do not do so, does that have any consequences for the financing of these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u18	I referred in my speech to the debate I had with the Minister last week during WHO Integration. There was then a letter in which the progress of discussions with municipalities on the development of the new integration system was discussed. Now that's specifically about the newcomers. The municipalities wanted this task very badly. I think that in that conversation you should not only talk about the lusts, namely extra money and additional powers, but also about the burdens: that you should really deliver and start talking. So my question to the Minister, and to the Secretary of State when it comes to oldcomers, is: look at the very large group of non-Western immigrants in the assistance and make sure that hard agreements are made that municipalities will do it. That is what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u19	I understand that, and that's good. My question was what would happen if these hard agreements were not made, specifically for the oldcomers. We said: municipalities can sometimes help these people more than they do now. Let's find it in that corner. Suppose municipalities do not do so, what incentive is Mr Heerma prepared to place it at those municipalities and can we look for it in the funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u20	I've heard a lot of VVDs say in debates over the past few months that you never have to answer like-dan questions, but I'm gonna do it anyway. I want to change the focus. My accents in this debate are just as different from those of the VVD. The VVD is based on people who do not want and who must be punished for that. My speech was about the fact that it is not social to leave people trapped in it and that municipalities allow that to happen. So my focus is that municipalities have to use the instruments they have, they also have sanctioning tools, but it is mainly the tools they have to get people working that they need to use, because it is not social to leave those people trapped in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u21	I am pleased that Mr Heerma has taken a good look at the SP amendment and also sees that there is a problem there that needs to be resolved. I would just like to stress that not only are they concerned withzzp'ers, but also with employees who, for example, have an early pension scheme that ends at 65. I heard the Minister say, when you were speaking, "OBR." That's the bridging arrangement. Can I interpret your question to the Minister in such a way that it concerns the group affected by having an arrangement that stops at 65 and is not eligible for this bridging arrangement and is therefore in serious financial difficulties? Should we look carefully at how this can be resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u22	I realize that, by bringing it up here, I always put myself in a position where you can tell me that I want too little and that it is not social enough. I have a very specific question about part of the group you are talking about. The Minister referred in his letter to the OBR this week. I have the impression that this OBR is not always a solution for people. What I'm specifically talking about are thezzp'ers who had disability insurance. It was based on the retirement age of 65 years. Not all insurers have grafted this type of product to an age; some just had it up to retirement. So not everyone has this problem. But I'm talking specifically about those who shut down that product. They had assured themselves and assumed responsibility for it. The legislator has changed the rules of the game and therefore they have a hole. I'm going to make it very specific: in there you have the group that had already become disabled. The group which is not yet unfit for work has a possibility of insuring itself. The burning houses don't have that. You ask for more, and I acknowledge that. But I would like to ask the Minister in there specifically if he can do anything for this group. I therefore support your speech, but very specifically on one part. I know you want to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u23	I understand. Of course I want to make it wider, because more people have that problem. Paul is sitting here in the gallery watching the debate. He's one of those who did his story in the Telegraph yesterday. Piet was the other one who did his story in the Telegraph yesterday. This was indeed specifically about the example that Mr Heerma is now setting out. I am glad that the CDA is also asking the Minister this question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u24	Before Mr Heerma walks away from this, I would like to talk about that sixty-year-old construction worker, who is consciously an entrepreneur and is told by the insurer: sorry, you are too old. A little debate with the VVD about this shows that the party has good hope for the conversation with insurers. I can tell you now: more is needed. Is the CDA prepared to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u25	In the coalition agreement, we made numerous agreements aboutzzp'ers. For me, that bottom is very important. I have just asked a number of questions about this, because the route we agreed on seems complicated. But I can see in the Minister's letter that it is possible to settle it properly in an alternative way. Now I would like to await the Minister's answers. When it comes to those uninsuredzzp'ers, I would like to add an additional question to my input through Mr Van Dijk's question. Thank you for that. It's in the tone of the last letter. Where the coalition agreement had the commitment that it should be possible for more people to be assured, the end of this letter seems to say: make a responsible choice. I don't think that's quite the same. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Dijk what ambition the Minister has in the coming period to raise the level of insurance for people, because people also have the opportunity to insure themselves. Not only that they consciously choose within the possibilities they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u26	So that could lead to, possibly..............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u27	I felt him coming myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u28	Exactly! This could mean that you would have to regulate a number of things politically, such as an acceptance obligation and that kind of thing. At least I hear from Mr Heerma that it is not excluded. Because I understand that there is a coalition and that there are differences between the parties, but I also call on Mr Heerma, just as I call on the VVD, to leave this open. Because if we close this now, we will have a real social problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u29	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u30	We have a coalition agreement in which we try to tackle the problems withzzp'ers. That's what I'm going for. The Minister has set out an alternative route for this. I'd like to get to work on that. And you do ask a question like that. Let's make that a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u31	There's a coalition agreement. We all know that, but there are also election programs. The CDA writes in its election programme that you are for basic insurance for all workers, including forzzp'ers. Are you still open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u32	I would have expected this question from Mr Smeulders, given all his media actions on this issue in recent days. It is always a very complicated question to ask a politician: does he like his election programme more or more of his government agreement? I love both, of course. If Mr Smeulders suggests or thinks that my character is such that I do not keep to my commitments, then I must try to give him a better picture of my personality. I've made clear appointments. I believe in that and I want to make it a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u33	This answer does not surprise me, of course. I hope he sees something, and that is a question I would like to ask Mr Heerma. Do you see that the social debate on disability insurance is changing and that even an organisation like the AWVN, a club of employers, is now advocating compulsory insurance? How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u34	The AWVN has been advocating this for years. You just referred, in the debate with Mr Wiersma, to an expression from the AWVN about three months ago, I believe. But I believe that the AWVN has already written a report in 2014 in which they advocated much more regulations for workers. So this is a steady line that has been advocated by the AWVN for years and which we have had debates on in the previous period. The social debate is currently under way. We have made agreements to tackle the bottom of thezzp market, the exploitation and the phony constructions. Those appointments, I believe in that. They have the same objective as I believe Mr Smeulders is aiming for. He has just indicated, in response to a question from Mr Wiersma, that there will be a motion tomorrow. All the groups in this House will, of course, take a close look at this motion, but in the light of agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr Heerma has just indicated that it is not desirable for people to be on welfare benefits for too long. That's true, of course. Of course, you'd like people with welfare benefits to get back to work as soon as possible. But, of course, there are also people in the assistance that really do not even belong in it, for example because they do not meet the language requirement at all. Now there are congregations that say: that language requirement, I don't care, I'm not going to maintain it. If that is a problem, and we think it is a problem, why is it that the CDA is opposed to an obligation to enforce the requirements of the assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u36	Well, we agreed in the government agreement on the enforcement instruments. The language requirement and the consideration are mentioned. So in the coalition agreement, four parties recognise that more needs to be done. The plea that I have just made is also aimed at the Minister and the Secretary of State using the negotiating position that is now in place in their talks with municipalities to make firm agreements on this matter. However, there is a border for me, because municipalities are not executive offices of the Empire. There's municipal autonomy. That's why I'm looking for it in the search for hard appointments. In doing so, municipalities must take their responsibility in the area of the Participation Act and implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u37	The chairman himself was here a year ago. She also followed the debate at the time. And she also saw the PVV say: "Oh, there's been talk with these municipalities for so many years now, so many years now they've been trying to move them to maintain the requirements of the assistance, and nothing happens. With all due respect, nothing's gonna happen. We've been a year. The CDA is in the cabinet. We've been a year, and there's nothing left. In fact, the CDA voted against a motion calling for it to be put forward at last. How many more years are needed before the CDA sees the light and realizes that the municipalities are not going to do so on their own initiative? While maintaining this is necessary in order to maintain the sustainability of assistance. When does the CDA actually agree to simply making it compulsory to do so? That seems logical to me to take account of the requirements of the assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u38	As I indicated in my first reply, I end up looking differently than Mr De Jong at the role of co-government that municipalities have. And I cannot deny that Mr De Jong has repeatedly tabled motions which continue on a line that I cannot support. But when he hears my input, he also knows how much I find the problem of people who are left there to their fate. That's the same intention. However, I do not rule out the fact that I will continue not to support the motions that are going on and that therefore municipalities are seen as an implementation window for the Empire. At the same time, I am also here in this debate to encourage the rulers and from my position to give them a boost in order to achieve this. I'm gonna say one last thing as a lock. It's really not like any of the municipalities are doing anything with this. So the phrase "nothing happens" is not right, because there are a lot of municipalities in which consideration is used, where one really starts talking to people with the language requirement in one's hand and says: you have to make an effort to learn that language. Should it be better and should it be more? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr. De Jong, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u40	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Those municipalities don't deserve applause, because they're supposed to do it. If you get welfare benefits, that's part of the rules. And municipalities are supposed to just check compliance with those rules. And if someone who is not supposed to receive welfare benefits on the basis of the requirements, then the municipality should withdraw the benefit. It doesn't happen all the time. But this doesn't go together either. The CDA claims to be concerned about the sustainability of the assistance and about the people who have been in it for too long. But then, for years, the CDA has been voting against the PVV's call to make it compulsory to maintain assistance, or against the call to recover assistance fraud to the last penny without limitation. It's not the same thing. In doing so, the CDA, with all the good intentions it is supposed to have, ensures that the assistance becomes unsustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u41	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u42	It is a pity that Mr De Jong'so-called' still stands in between, because the good intentions are there, in my opinion, with several parties in this house. But I also disagree on two fronts with Mr De Jong. The first point is that municipalities that do well would not deserve compliments. It fits in this house that when things go wrong, you name it, but you also name it when they go well. There can be that reciprocity. Moreover, we are certainly looking in our own way for the way in which the municipalities are going to do the better, namely not to let people get stuck in it. We have done so in the coalition agreement, but also in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr. Heerma started out so well, didn't he, with this point. He said, "I'm stuck with this." I think we're all concerned about how we get people back in. We need everyone and we also want to offer opportunities for everyone. And he just made a comment in my direction. Frankly, that intention is not so important to me, it is about how we get those people back in. And what instruments have we all come up with to help municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u44	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u45	But what if municipalities don't use these instruments and they don't want to maintain it? Are there any consequences? That was my question. I hear Mr Heerma say to Mr De Jong carefully: that could be possible. I would like to ask him this. Would he be willing to see if we could reward the municipalities that are doing well? This obviously affects the overall budget, and that means indirectly something for the municipalities that are not doing well, which we can therefore also maintain more firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u46	In my view, Mr Wiersma has now sat down in the negotiating chair of the directors by saying how they are going to have that conversation with the municipalities. I don't think it's a crazy idea for you to put on the table in that conversation that municipalities that apply things are rewarded for that. I would like to leave the outcome of the negotiations to the directors. But I don't think the thought is that crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u47	Now we're getting somewhere. Mr Heerma said a and I wanted to see if he was going to say b. B is that this can have consequences when municipalities fail to comply with these instruments, and of course there are consequences when they do, and do well. I hear Mr Heerma say: 'I do not only see it as a problem. However, I also think that municipalities should be strongly called upon to do so, that agreements should be made. If that does not work, it must not be without consequences." So I'm happy about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u48	Good. I'd like to make a point. There is no limitation on the number of interruptions, but I see that things are getting a little out of hand. In particular, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenk score very high. So I would actually like to ask you to keep the interruptions short, and also just to interrupt with a point that you really want to raise coûte que coûte, so not after every sentence. But it doesn't only apply to you, Mrs. Van Brenk. Mrs. Van Brenk, go ahead. Now you don't have the guts to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u49	Now I'm afraid to do it at all. No, I do it anyway, because I think Mr Heerma's point about the granite stock in assistance is important. That is a major concern, also for us, because there are quite a lot of people in it. We want them out. I do not see enough effort in this to get those people excited through training to get them out. I have a feeling you might be a little more positive about that, so maybe you could help me out. What do you think: this is a very good line?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u50	I'm not sure I fully understand your question, because I'm not very positive. I think more needs to be done. And I can see that there are opportunities for it. There are also examples of companies which, in consultation with the municipalities, do quite a lot and which, for example, offer training and training on the job while maintaining a welfare allowance, with a flow to regular work. Thus, working while retaining benefits, a very sensitive subject for many parties, is a stepping stone to a regular job. But there's education on the job. This type of method, which therefore leads to a lot of jobs in individual cases, and also permanent jobs, should be used more in my view. That therefore requires parties to step over taboos on the one hand. But it really requires both that employer and, above all, the municipality to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mrs. Van Brenk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u52	Finally, Mr President. At least we recognise that much remains to be done. And indeed, we think of working with a benefit which must be paid against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u53	Just a little more specific on this point. That Craft Academy has already supported 50PLUS, where they work while maintaining a WW benefit. The taboos we lay with each other in advance should not, therefore, in practice lead to barriers for people to actually get to work. But I understand that from 50PLUS, too, we have to look closely at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Peters, also on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With some regularity I receive people to hear from them what moves them, what touches them and what they run into. Although that must be done in the case of Frank, whom I quote immediately, because of his limitation not to be taken too literally. I quote him: "Many people are forced not to rely on what they can, but on their limitations. Otherwise, for example, they will not get help with the household. It would be much better and healthier if we based on the motivation and capabilities of people and built on them, because what we are doing now makes people small." Mr. Chairman. Frank goes on to say: "People with an extra challenge don't get to work easily. Partly that's because they've gotten murky from another rejection. Because their resume shows holes, they don't even get through the first selection. But perhaps still important are the uncertainty and the fear of people. Their lives with all kinds of benefits and supplements may be just a little stable. Working will put that safety under pressure. What if things go wrong at work; am I entitled to the same benefit again? Every movement is then a potential catastrophe for these people." I would like a response from the Secretary of State on this point. Did I understand from her letter of 28 sides that it should always be possible to restore an old situation by using a red button, so that people like Frank don't have to be afraid to move? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I quote: "Employers also often find it exciting to hire people with disabilities. For example, they are afraid of extra absenteeism, or of high costs if people drop out unexpectedly. Of course, that's often wrong. People with an extra challenge do not fail more than other employees. Actually, there's no reason not to hire people, except sometimes ignorance. Sometimes the scare must be overcome when an applicant comes in on wheels." Frank's right, of course, but Frank's home for the time being. Hooray, then, I hear, that pernicious instrument of pay dispensation is off. That was a few weeks ago the reaction of many parties dealing with people with so-called distance from the labour market. They said, the secretary of state jumped over her shadow; we are happy. A festive mood is always pleasant, but hopefully it isn't long-lasting, because the people who care about it are still at home. It's still quiet. A lot has been said about pay dispensation, including a lot of demonstrable nonsense, but there is no point in looking back on that. Dispensation also had good aspects, but it turned out to be too complicated in the execution. It is therefore wise that the Secretary of State has taken a different path. Politically, that was a brave decision. It makes the partying parties responsible for a worn solution, preferably one that does work. Mr. Chairman. It took a while, but we got a letter from the Secretary of State about the offensive to help people get to work. I say "a letter," but it was actually a little book. I have a simple question to the Secretary of State about this little book: does the polder agree on the measures to be taken, or should the CDA consider the booklet as a starting document which is going to be discussed in grief without any real action being taken? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Over a million people in the Netherlands are struggling to make ends meet. Over 400,000 people have problematic debts. Well, that's a cautious estimate. The figures used by the General Court are much higher. Every year, with all our efforts and good intentions, we're not helping 10,000 people clean a slate. A lot ofzzp'ers don't build up a pension. Many do not insure themselves against incapacity for work; we have just talked about it. The rents and the care costs have increased. Poverty is a growing problem and creates exclusion and fewer opportunities. The CDA is concerned about this persistent problem, despite the efforts being made. The CBS figures show that poverty is persistent and ultimately does not fall, despite the thriving economy. I would like a response from the Secretary of State and a small reflection on the CBS figures. A while ago we spoke as a committee with representatives of the government: the UWV, the Tax Office, DUO, the CJIB, the SVB, the VNG, and so on. Once again it appeared that the government was unable to come to real alignment with each other. The government is for the citizen one thing, or one person, but a person with a split personality now. The GDPR isn't helping with that. That's weird, isn't it? I would like a response from the Secretary of State, because we can't talk to people with seven mouths? Mr. Chairman. We have been given an initial impetus to the development of the comprehensive debt approach. When you think "it's gonna be more complicated than I thought," it always gets more complicated than you thought. I respect the Secretary of State's commitment to this matter. I see she's doing the right things with heart and soul, but it's going slowly. I therefore have a few questions for the Secretary of State. We have had a first report on the progress of dealing with debt and poverty, but is the Secretary of State himself satisfied with this progress? Is the pace high enough? Does the Secretary of State need anything else from the Chamber to speed things up? 'Cause I understand it's not easy. We have received the letter, we see progress, we see difficult files and delays and we see laws conflicting with each other. We all come to the conclusion that we have made it so complicated for people that they come in without help, but not anymore. I slowly get the feeling that we've made it so complicated ourselves that the government itself can't solve it and doesn't have the overview anymore. How does the Secretary of State see that? Mr. Chairman. The whole Chamber, from left to right, sees the problem of poverty and debt and supports the broad common approach. We are unanimous in that, but we cannot wait for the word to become flesh. That's what I'm talking about in a transferable sense, but there's a real hurry. Mr. Chairman. We have organised a complex system of benefits, supplements, taxes and special schemes. That's nice, but still. The Social Planning Bureau notes a growth of a group of Dutch people who work and at the same time live in poverty. Of all workers, 4.6% are poor. That amounts to 320,000 people. These people may not be starving, but they certainly don't have enough to live a comfortable life. The worst thing is that a large part of these people are not in the picture at all, not in the municipalities, not in the Empire, not in trade unions and not in industry organisations. That's worrying. Those who do not work enough hours or can work or who have to work as self-employed for a very low hourly rate do not have enough left to live well. Those who look around, of course, already knew that. Indeed, I know: in Germany, the number of working poor is twice as large as in the Netherlands and even three times as large in England. And I know: municipalities are really doing their best to get people in the picture, the government, for example, takes some measures through the Tax Administration to help these people and the trade unions are sure to call for a little bit of loose flexibilisation, but for people who are not members of the union they are not. All good and good, so it's not enough. It's a tricky problem. Municipalities stand up for people without jobs. Trade unions stand up for wage-earners and seezzp'ers partly as a problem. Small trade unions are created for self-employed people without staff, but as a working poor, you don't have any money for contributions. Branch organisations are also not very keen to stand up for this group of small self-employed people. People who do work but have a hard time financially are actually on their own. That is why I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA that 320,000 working poor people are not represented in the polder and do not have a vote there? Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA that 320,000 working poor are actually out of the picture? Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA that this group deserves attention, representation and solutions to real problems such as pension insurance and income? Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss this specific and yet so divided group with the polder? Is the Secretary of State prepared to ask the ESC for specific advice on working poor? Finally. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to involve the Central Planning Bureau and the Nibud in order to improve the image of different households, such as single people, single people with and without children and single parents and elderly people? Mr. Chairman. I would ask for special attention to be paid to a group of people who are really in a tight spot: people without a roof over their heads, people who depend on social care. Last year, I asked the Secretary of State in a motion to engage with all the municipalities in order to implement a final approach that should prevent removals due to debts and the non-payment of rent. My question is, therefore, what is the situation with regard to the implementation of this motion? We also hear that more and more young people are homeless. The CDA receives signals that this may be related to the strict application of the cost sharing standard by municipalities. This would prevent them from being taken care of by friends and acquaintances, by parents and so on. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Don't the municipalities have enough room in this? Or aren't they picking up right? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. When people with debts are evicted, they are taken in to be put back in a similar house later on to a lot of money and much suffering. That's crazy. The only thing about this approach that could help or work is the guidance of social care professionals. In a motion for a resolution, I asked Minister De Jonge to allow social services to take place in people's homes, if necessary. That motion made it, too. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to discuss with Minister De Jonge and see how, in cooperation between two ministries, this distressing problem can be tackled further? Expatriations are just harmful. I want to get rid of it, and I want to pursue zero debt-related expulsions. I think that's what any sensible person would want. I would like a clear commitment from the Secretary of State on this point. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u56	I know from Mr Peters that he is concerned about poverty, debt and certainly home expulsions. He refers to the letter we received on the progress of the comprehensive debt approach. I said something about that this morning. I found it a very disappointing letter because all the measures agreed or envisaged are being postponed. In particular, it is said about duty-free and the herd register: wait, because it is not there yet. I heard Mr Peters ask the Secretary of State if she is satisfied with the progress, but I ask Mr Peters: what do you think? What do you think of that letter? What do you think of the progress made on these two files?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u57	What does Mr Peters think? Otherwise, people will think you're talking to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u58	Yes, it is. I'll answer the question myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u59	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u60	Of course, no one can be happy about it at all. The same probably applies to the Secretary of State. That's why I'm asking if there's anything we need to speed this up. Even though you think it will be more complicated than you think, it turns out to be even more complicated. That's why I'm asking. I'm beginning to think that we've made it so complicated that we can hardly steer it at all. I would also like to comment on that, but of course I am not satisfied, because I believe that everything agreed in the coalition agreement should preferably be settled yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u61	Then I conclude that Mr Peters is going to support my appeal to the Secretary of State to work on this with perseverance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u62	If the Secretary of State states in reply to my question that I need it, I will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u63	I want to go back to the people with disabilities. Last year, Mr Peters said: 'When municipalities close a social work facility, that is stupid.' I really thought that was one of his best statements ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u65	Do you still think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u67	Look, clear answers, I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u68	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u69	But then we should see how we can strengthen them. We now see that perhaps 100,000 people with a disability are on the sidelines and are actually falling between shore and ship. They cannot work at an ordinary company or at such a SW company, because they do not get the so-called "safe work" indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u70	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u71	Shouldn't we see if we can broaden that so that those people no longer have to sit at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u72	I would ask Mr Van Dijk to clarify whether he means that the criteria for sheltered work are very strictly maintained. If that's what he's saying, I'm getting signals that that might be the case. I have said several times that with sheltered work we are not helping very few people to work. We have to look at that, I think, last year also talked about whether those criteria are too strict. You could; then you have to do something about it. Can you do something with temporary indications, because the municipalities say that there may still be growth and that it is also possible to fall back again? That's the kind of research I support, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u73	That's great. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u74	That's how I know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u75	I hear Mr Peters talking about zero home expulsions, just to sum it up. I think that's a very nice ambition. I do have a question: what does that mean for the position of landlords?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u76	If I were here to plead for a ban on expulsion if people didn't pay their rent, I know that I might be able to get some people to think that they could improve their income by just not paying the rent anymore. Of course, I'm not arguing for that. However, I would argue that every municipality should already make arrangements with housing corporations to ensure that you avoid this as much as possible by being there immediately and by involving the municipality immediately, for example if a tenant does not pay the rent for the first time. But then it has to go even further. I also wish that when something doesn't go, there's something like a last chance. Then let social services take place in people's homes. Put people under curatel, get paid on the spot and give that guidance there. So no ban, but zero home evictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u77	We understand each other very well, because I explicitly indicated zero home expulsions and no prohibition. The position of landlords is thus no less strong because of what you propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u78	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mr. Peters. Then I will go to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Renkema on his maiden speech. It was a very inspiring and beautiful story. Mr. Chairman. One year, one month and one day Minister Koolmees is in office. The only thing the minister managed during this period is that extra money goes to the labour inspectorate. Of course, we are all very happy about that, because that was a long-cherished Chamberwide wish. But that's where the list of successes ends pretty soon, because good agreements about being able to stop working on time are farther away than ever. Also, pensions that are most affected by price developments are farther than ever before. And the new Flex Act, which should reduce the record of two million insecure contracts in total by now, is not the milestone as the Minister himself called it, but a grabbelton of incoherent measures, which, apart from this minister, nobody really believes in. But also measures to protect small employers from enormous costs of pay-through in the event of illness, and laws and rules to tackle the abuse of false self-employment as in the case of Deliveroo, even these types of measures for which there is very broad support in this Chamber, cannot be achieved by this minister. The coalition parties have therefore been holding each other in a stranglehold of a difficult agreement for a year. This suffocating situation means that this minister does not deliver. Workers and pensioners pay a high price for this. Pensioners have been seeing their income decline for ten years, while the cost of living continues to rise. Workers face an antisocially rapidly increasing AOW age and often do not achieve that age in good health. Zzp'ers cannot insure themselves for incapacity for work or a good old age. For start-ups in the labour market, precarious work has become the norm and they are forced to postpone important decisions such as buying a home or starting a family. They are the victims of this minister's impotence. Mr. Chairman. The SP is the only party in the election programme to make a calculated proposal to reduce the AOW age to 65. I have tabled an amendment to this budget to release funds for next year. Especially after yesterday's debate, that seems to me to be an excellent amendment so that we can wait and see what comes out of the study and the debate on the one-to-one link, so one year longer life is one year longer work. Reduction of the AOW age is crucial for stopping working on time. If that AOW age continues to rise to 70 years or more, arrangements to stop on time, for example in construction, will become priceless. When we look at everyday reality, we see that more and more older workers who do not already reach AOW age but become disabled or ill before the finish line. In Trouw, a painful picture was sketched on 24 November showing that the number of long-term ill workers over 60 has tripled in five years. Triple in five years! Yesterday, the cabinet indicated that the linking of the AOW age to life expectancy is not sustainable. Does the Minister recognise that period has long passed? That it's already untenable? That the problem is acute and that he can't, as he's used to, move things forward and run away from his responsibility? Because of this antisocially rapidly increasing AOW age, which prevented people from preparing, a very large group of people got into trouble. I have just mentioned Paul from The Hague, who follows this debate in the gallery all day, as an example. He gave his situation in a letter, first to us, but later to all the members here in the Chamber. By deciding to raise the AOW age so extremely quickly, Paul misses food for three years. Paul misses €17,000 and compares this with 170 shopping cars that he can fill with food at the Lidl for €100. Paul is right to be furious about this, and he wants to see acts of this minister. But we also spoke with Piet from Middelburg, for example. He is a painter, a painter who has become disabled after 45 years of work. He's always had disability insurance. That was even very expensive, because with this disability insurance he was insured for up to 65 years. He became chronically ill and now falls back on an income of €350 per month. Until December 2019 Piet will have to do with that €350. Several times the SP has proposed to broaden the bridging regime, not only for Piet and Paul, but also for all the other thousands who have not been able to prepare for the increase in the AOW age and face a financial gap. Give these people the right to a decent old age and come up with an emergency fund to correct that injustice, the big problems created by the government and people are suffering tremendously and to compensate them completely for what they have been taken away from them. To that end, I call on the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to do this? I have tabled an amendment to that effect, a proposal to make money available in order to do so. I have also seen that the coalition parties have already distributed the money I found on the budget several times in the back rooms. I am also willing to look at other coverages, for example around the low-income benefit. Mr. Chairman. Among the more than 3 million workers with insecure income, 1 million are self-employed without staff. In order to compete, they often work for a fee that is impossible for you to pay an invalidity insurance, let alone an old age benefit. If they can insure at all. Because among construction workers who work as zzp'ers are more and more people who are not insured. That's what Trouw reported again. This has to do, among other things, with the premium which is far too high, but also with the fact that insurers simply refuse these people and do not want to insure them. They therefore need collective, affordable and accessible insurance. Collectively, so the costs can be borne together. Affordable, because the costs will be reduced by that collectivity and minimum rates ensure that everyone can pay for that insurance. And finally, accessible, because everyone can be assured and no one can be denied. Mr. Chairman. Insecure contracts have become the norm, especially for young adults. I've just mentioned it for a while. Employees with an insecure flex contract not only have an insecure income, but often also a lower income. On average, they earn some 40% less than employees with a certain contract. Many start-ups in the labour market have an uncertain and low income. Add to that the rising student debt of an average of €26,000, and you understand that it is almost impossible for this group to buy a house and even often to rent a house. It postpones important decisions. The fluctuating flexibility of the labour market has a disruptive effect on society. Does the Minister recognize that? While the labour market is crying out for solutions, this minister is coming up with his new Flex Act. In short, five months' probation, three years' insecure contract, erosion of protection against unfair dismissal, and so on. With the Flex Act of Koolmees, this cabinet opens the attack on workers' rights instead of actually restoring the balance that the Minister is always talking about. The Council of State agrees with the SP. Read the advice of this law, which is completely destructive. While for 2 million workers and 1 millionzzp'ers each month it is uncertain whether they can work or make ends meet, this minister pushes them further into the swamp of uncertainty. The Flex Act has been hoarded by just about everyone who knows it. From left to right, from lawyers to professors, and I have just mentioned the Council of State: no one likes this law. I have rarely seen such a destructive judgment following the submission of a bill by the cabinet. But what does Minister Koolmees do? He sees in this the confirmation that he has worked well. Unobtrusive and with blinkers on his back, he's heading for his next failure. A solution for the 3 million insecure-income workers seems to be farther away than ever. Finally, Mr President. The labour market and our social security are crying out for solutions. For the first time since World War II, the present generation is worse off than the previous generation. For the first time, the number of employees with an uncertain contract has crossed the 2 million threshold. Add to that the 1 millionzzp'ers, and you come to the shocking number of the aforementioned 3 million workers with uncertain incomes. The number of people working but living in poverty at the same time has increased explosively, by 50% between 2001 and 2014. The CDA just called it right. In the meantime, we're talking 320,000 people. Meanwhile, this minister's moving some paper, but he's not achieving anything. Mr. Chairman. It's time for real solutions. It's time for justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mr. Chairman. The common man has known for a while: the economy is growing like a tierelier, but we don't notice it. It is mainly the shareholder who benefits from this growth, not the working one. Rabobank concludes that household disposable income has been virtually stationary for almost 40 years. The Netherlands Bank has been advocating a wage increase for some time. 'Cause wages are too low. An ever smaller proportion of economic growth goes to workers, an increasing proportion to capital. To quote the Quote, my body leaf, the economy is growing faster than the tourist numbers in Amsterdam, but farther than the tower of Pisa. An increasing proportion of the cake goes to shareholders and corporate owners. I'd like a response. What is the Minister going to do to increase wages? Is he willing to consider a wage measure? Or are we back here next year because it didn't work out again? Mr. Chairman. While the economy is growing, poverty is also increasing. Nearly 600,000 households have an income below the low-income threshold in 2017. That's 27,000 more than in 2016. While the money is plotting against the plinths, poverty is increasing. I rest my case. Poverty among working people is also increasing. According to the Central Planning Bureau, 320,000 people are involved. A big increase since 1990. That must hurt liberals, because working doesn't seem to pay any more. Does the government know the story of Claudia Brugman? She lived in poverty for ten years and had nothing to eat but boiled rice for weeks. This is about the Netherlands, isn't it? It sounds like American states, by the way. I refer to the broadcast of Nieuwsuur last night, with Mrs Ehrenreich, who won the Erasmus Prize. But this is about the Netherlands. Does the government agree with me that the social minimum is too low? Is she willing to raise the statutory minimum wage significantly? Mr. Chairman. Poverty is increasing, but so is enrichment at the top. Look at the broadcast of Newshour last Sunday. Heineken's top man deserves attention! A total of 277 times more than the working floor. Unilever's top man, Mark Rutte's boyfriend, earns 292 times more than the workplace. Do you share my view that this is completely absurd? What do you think of that total distortion? More poverty, but also more enrichment at the top. I'd like a response. Society wants it different. Two thirds of the Dutch think that the top salaries should be capped, according to the Nieuwsuur survey. I couldn't agree more. As far as we are concerned, salaries at the top are included in the collective agreement and should never exceed the wages of the lowest paid worker by more than ten times. That's what's going on. That is why I ask the government to examine this proposal. If you do not, all moral indignation about the enrichment at the top is cheap talk. Then there's child poverty. The municipalities have been paid for this, but not all municipalities spend it on it. Research carried out by the North Holland News network shows, for example, that no less than 2 million euros out of the 15 million in North Holland are wrongly spent. Why do you accept that? Are you willing to guarantee that the money will come to the right place? And do you come quickly with a reduction target for poverty, in line with the SP motion in the First Chamber? Mr. Chairman. Then about the government's efforts to get people with disabilities into work. It's a good thing those maled plans for pay dispensation are off the table. It meant pay discrimination and it is wise that the government saw that that was not a good idea. The government now has a broad offensive with a number of good points, such as that work should pay more and job coaches should be used more often. A huge missed opportunity, you already guessed it, President-in-Office of the Council, is the social employment provision. The closure of the social work facility under Rutte II was a tough cut of no less than 650 million euros. It was sold to us with a nice talk about the inclusive labour market. In practice, tens of thousands of people are at home. That is why I support my amendment on item No. 9. to reverse that austerity. The question to the Liberal Secretary of State is: can people decide for themselves where they best come to their own? Some people are better off in social services and others outside. It makes so much sense to me. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There is a group of people who are now falling between shore and ship. They do not manage to get a job through the job appointment, but they are also not eligible for a sheltered workplace. These people should be eligible for this. I have written a plea with Noortje van Lith who so successfully resisted the pay dispensation. Are you willing to make sheltered workplaces available for this group? I have another proposition. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give people with disabilities the legal right to provide services from a social employment facility? Now people depend on the municipality's policy, but that's quite different. One more question about pay for people with disabilities. In your new proposal, they remain dependent on a benefit that can be supplemented, which is also good, but what do you think of the trade unions' alternative to looking at compensation through surcharges, a so-called inclusion bonus? Then you keep a full wage instead of a benefit. What about the implementation of my motion for a collective agreement on sheltered work? I like to hear it. Over the years, the requirements for disability benefits have been steadily increasing. The government now wants to raise the threshold even further. You have to be, as it were, an athlete to ever climb that threshold again and qualify for such a WIA benefit. The government wants to achieve 10% less inflow, and this would result in a cut of EUR 250 million. I say get rid of this austerity and get a fair deal for disabled people. Mr. Chairman. Around one and a half million households have problematic debts. The debt relief of municipalities is still not in order, the Ombudsman concludes. How does the Secretary of State implement my motion to exclude groups likezzp'ers,young people and students from debt relief? Debts are also caused by incorrect collection agencies. Too often they make heavy profits over the back of debtors by charging unjustified costs. We say: sending a wrong collection account must be fined by the Authority Consumer & Markt by default and let us take recidivists off the market. Is the Secretary of State willing to do that, or is she gonna let these cowboys go? What is the status of the Simplification Act in this respect? I'd like a commitment to a quick introduction. Mr. Chairman. Last summer I was in Poland with colleague Van Kent. We wanted to be aware of the consequences of labour migration, because there are already 250 000 Poles working in the Netherlands, but at the same time there are almost 2 million Ukrainians working in Poland. We were in a tomato farm, for example, it wasn't a coincidence, and there we really only saw Ukrainians. The Poles had left for the Westland. So everyone's working a country down the road. What does the Minister think of this bullshit with employees? It is a result of the free movement of workers within the European Union, but all too often it leads to lower wages and wage costs for migrant workers and thus to a wage drop. I'd like a response. The housing of migrant workers is also a major problem. Around 100 000 workers in Eastern Europe in particular have no house or house in the Netherlands. Recently we read that migrant workers in Poeldijk had to sleep on pallets in a warehouse of the temporary agency. The SP has drawn attention to this more often. It is time to take control and tackle the disruption caused by labour migration. What about the inspection? The inspection must, of course, be carried out on working conditions, housing and all that sort of thing. Are you now bringing additional inspectors to this point? I'd like a response. We look forward with interest to the proposals to tackle labour market discrimination. Discrimination to order is unacceptable. Are temporary agency agencies that are guilty of this kind really being dealt with? Finally, the WW fraud. We have had a great debate on this. The Minister is busy with all kinds of investigations. Is he able to lift a tip from the veil yet? When do I get the answers to my parliamentary questions about wasting money on ICT projects within the UWV? I asked them a while ago and I would like them to be answered in connection with the forthcoming debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating and congratulating Mr Renkema on his maiden speech. We have had a lot of debates, so it was almost a little surprise to me that this had not yet happened in the plenary, but welcome, also here. Mr. Chairman. The labour market is doing well, so well that it is even a problem for many employers to find people, in the market sector, but certainly also in education and care. The number of vacancies has reached a peak. Unemployment is falling and the number of workers is currently increasing by 20,000 per month. That is a world of difference compared to a number of years ago when I was here discussing the budget with the previous cabinet, which was in a very different economic situation. Let me say once again that I believe that the policy of the previous cabinet has also helped to correct this. But just when things are going well, you also have to look at structural looming errors. One of them really is the dichotomy. The number of permanent jobs among employees has fallen from 74% to 60% in 10 years. That's a problem. If we don't do something, half the practically trained people will have a flex contract, not because they want to, but because they don't have an alternative. You can also see it in self-employed people. On the one hand, at the bottom, there is a group that is involuntaryly independent, or actually not independent at all. We have had debates on this, for example on Deliveroo. I see Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party nodding. On the other hand, let's not forget that; as far as I am concerned, there are still too many real self-employed people who want to do business, who make their own choice and who, because of the lack of clarity and because of now fearful clients, have problems getting into business in this way. This cabinet has an ambitious agenda for this; not an easy agenda, but an ambitious one. Think about the self-employed. We have now seen that it may be very complicated to say that, under a certain rate, we are simply going to treat people as workers, so that they are insured in the event of illness. Because that is indeed a challenge we face. The cabinet is also looking for an alternative with a generic minimum rate if it turns out that the original plan is not working. I think it would be wise for the cabinet not to bet on one horse for this. In practice, we still see certain constructions. I agree with the questions raised by a number of colleagues about the enforcement of those really crooked clients. In the case of some 100 companies, it would be possible to see whether there was in fact independence there. What's the picture of that now? What lessons have been learned? If you want to make a fixed contract more attractive, you should also talk about pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness. We have received a letter from the Minister, in which he writes: give me a moment, because I was swallowed up by pensions. I fully understand that, but we must, of course, make a breakthrough here. For too long, we've been trying to solve something here. The previous cabinet has also made many attempts. It would be nice if we could finally break the deadlock there. Last but not least, pensions. We talked a lot about that yesterday. In this context, I would like to make two specific comments here, irrespective of the fact that I look forward to the letter from the Minister who comes after old and new. The first point is that I conclude that a lot of self-employed people, who would also be given more scope for pension building with a new pension contract, are not aware at the moment that there is fiscal space if they are simply earmarked to save for their pension. Does the Minister recognize that image? My second comment concerns the importance of more choice and tailor-made work in the future. The sudden retirement benefit, the ability to absorb 10% of your accumulated pension assets when you retire, found and my group considers an extremely important element. I call on the Minister not to forget that. He didn't expect anything different from me, I guess. Mr. Chairman. If you look at the labour market, the picture on the one hand is that things are going extremely well. There is a tight rate, unemployment is falling, even among 45-plussers unemployment has already fallen to just above 3%. And yet there are still problems, big problems. I am talking not only about the many workers who remain stuck in a flex contract, young people but also the elderly. But even if you look a bit wider, for example, you can see that it is still not enough to allow older people who are now in the Unemployment Act to have a chance with an employer at that time of great tightness. I continue to find that incomprehensible, and I call here, like many, employers: dare that for once; what the hell are you afraid of? During the previous budget debate, with an amendment by the coalition with the support of the opposition, we released EUR 30 million for retraining the elderly looking for work to deficit sectors. 'Cause there's plenty of work there. And indeed, Mr Heerma said it: the use of it has only recently started, but it does not end. I would actually like a commitment from the Minister. I want the commitment that he will make more customization possible, also by the UWV. If something might just not comply with the rules but would still be very useful, Mr Wiersma gave examples of this, then the UWV should simply do so. If it turns out that €2,500, which is the maximum, may not be enough, don't be so rigid in that. Can we not ensure that this money is used in full and also in the right way? Mr. Chairman. I see Mrs. Van Brenk at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u85	Me too, but you were done with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'm really happy with those pennies, but they're gonna stay in that jar. That is a legitimate point that we are concerned about. I hear Mr Van Weyenberg talking about WW. Would it also be possible for the people in the welfare system who, with this training, have the prospect of a permanent job, so that we no longer have to provide welfare benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u89	I find that an interesting suggestion. I'll pass it on to both rulers. This was really about money in the WW. That's what the UWV's about. That's the government. By the way, this is also the only educational money there is at all in the WW. I shall come back to that in a moment. I also assume that municipalities, which, in my view, still have re-integration resources, also see that an investment, namely training, can lead to a very high rate of return for people themselves, but also reduce the burden on a municipality. It is a different route, but it seems to me that the same balance should be made. In my opinion, municipalities already have more room for this, but I take your question to the effect that you are absolutely right that this can also be very relevant to many people in the welfare system. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to groups that are difficult to get to work, I would like to ask specifically what is going on with the package leaflet that has been promised to me. The point is that people with a benefit who are going to apply get a form that says: employer, if you hire me, then you are entitled to these and these benefits. Now employers will have to search the internet and the UWV website themselves. When's it coming? I'm getting a little impatient. And specifically, I would like to ask about volunteering in the WW. In a letter, the Minister stated that he was going to broaden the rules. That's happened before, and now again. This sounds like music to me, but it is still a bit abstract. What exactly is going to change in practice, so that, for example, local bus organisations in North Holland also know that they can volunteer people in the WW? There is really no question of displacement, because the regular buses have not been there in a number of areas for a long time. Mr. Chairman. I have often called for attention to be paid to people affected by cancer and what that means for their job opportunities and job retention. Now we have heard today and yesterday that there is an investigation into the large loss of income, especially from young people who get cancer. A substantial loss of income, for example, from people working in the temporary employment sector or from people on temporary employment contracts. So, apart from adapting the labour market so that this permanent job becomes more accessible, I would like to ask the Minister: why don't you talk to the UWV and the broadcasting sector? I think we can really do more here to prevent people from losing their jobs if they get sick. That is really bad, bad for people who really have something else to worry about, but also bad for our country, because we cannot afford to write off all that human capital. I'd like a response. And can the UWV no longer do for people who no longer have an employer at some point, for example because their temporary contract is over? Mr. Chairman. Mr Smeulders called for attention to be paid to care leave. He already announced that we were doing that together. Why is that use left behind? I would therefore like to have more insight from the Minister. Where are the barriers and how can they be removed? Whatever I may be curious about is whether there is a large group of employers who say that we are not doing it by official means, but you will get that leave. I also find that an interesting question; that it may actually be used but not administered because the employer says: I do not go into very formal arrangements, but I just think it is good employership. I am particularly concerned about figures right now, but I am really looking for more knowledge about the practice and I therefore fully endorse the request that Mr Smeulders has already made on behalf of both of us. Mr. Chairman. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to mothers with postnatal depression or postpartum depression, as psychiatrists have told me these days that I should call it official. I'm getting some disturbing signals about that, and I want to know more about it. Namely that the UWV simply says after three months: no, you are now three months after delivery, so it can't be anymore. While the treating psychiatrist says, no, this is still just a postnatal depression. I even hear that the psychiatrist will not be asked for advice and input at all. In fact, I know a practical example in which the psychiatrist goes along with the client so that the counselor of someone who has to join the UWV can at least have his say because he is no longer actively approached. This concerns me. This is often a taboo subject, which affects people greatly. I would find it really strange if the practice here is that a group that has a right is not being helped. I'd like an action. I will also put forward a very long set of written questions in parallel today, but I hope to hear from the Minister today or tomorrow in particular that it is possible to do customised work here. That even after four months, if someone has just another postnatal depression, not the UWV examiner knows better than the treating psychiatrist. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled an amendment on labour market discrimination. This cabinet is taking great steps there and I congratulate the Secretary of State. Money has also been released from the even large extra medal shot created there in the government agreement for the Labour Inspectorate, or the SZW Inspection, but I would like to do something on top of that because I think it is urgent. For people with a migrant background who don't work at a temporary agency. But also older jobseekers, who apply for a job and are simply not invited at their age. Pregnancy discrimination, and now I am failing all kinds of other groups that are faced with this in practice. That's why it's an impulse. In any case, I would also like this money to be used for a firm approach and agreements with the broadcasting sector, so that signals come through. The Secretary of State says she's still working that out. I am just saying that the bar is high on this point, because with the broadcasting sector we really need to take a step now, otherwise we will have the same conversation here in four years' time. A rather special bridge, but still, is the wok chord, the arrangements with the Asian restaurant so that we can also get chefs in restaurants. What's the experience now? This has been widely used in recent years. I welcomed the steps taken by former Minister Asscher at my request. But what I'm seeing now is that it's coming to an end and it's pinching. Because things are going really well with the economy and such a restaurant where you have two good Asian chefs, there is also supplied by suppliers, there has to be furniture in it, there people work in the ministry, so it is good for the Dutch economy that they can do. In any case, I would like to have a commitment that next year the agreements will be extended in accordance with Mr Ziengs' motion of the VVD and myself earlier, in order to fill in the quota flexibly. I would also like to have a look at the follow-up before 1 April. As far as I'm concerned, this has to go on, because it's a success. I would specifically like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to look at Germany, where chefs are allowed generically if they have specialist knowledge. Then they can go into that country. On average, it's two per company. If it's a big company, it can be more. So you're off the quota and then there's just a generic scheme. I'd like a response. Mr President, I see my bell. I'm gonna use one more minute. Mr. Chairman. Then the future. We have talked a lot about the Economic and Social Council in the context of pensions. It's got kids in it, too. Many of the parties there also have young people. I have asked Mr Gijs van Dijk for an opinion from the young people before. I like listening to the steel frames, as Mr Heerma mentioned, but I also want to hear the young people, independently. We've already made the agreement that they're giving advice. I would very much like to make that structural. Let's just give them a solid position. I'd like a response from the Minister. There are two points that also concern the future. First of all, education and taxation. It is very technical, but you can see that in the step towards more personal education budgets, in which people are more self-directed about their education and maybe they should use their transition fee for education, taxes are too often a bottleneck. I've asked for this on a regular basis, on all kinds of specific parts. Apparently, it's very tough matter. Is the Minister prepared to think bigger for once and to do a major investigation into what's standing in the way? Because we've been talking about education here for years, but those taxes really seem to be a sta-in-the-way when it comes to giving people more direction about their own education, which is good for them. It is in a slightly different form from that of Mr Wiersma, but he actually mentioned the same problem. Those taxes are a bottleneck. I'd like to get a good look at it for once, otherwise we're gonna keep looking at things from one case to another. I'd like a response. Then there is my final point, Mr President. Governing is forward-looking. In the previous crisis, we did a lot of things that did not deliver what we had hoped for. I mention the job plans, but also the assumptions, which my group also had great expectations of. Shouldn't we think about what we're gonna do when things go down and there's gonna be more unemployed? Then we're prepared. There is already better service through the investment of this cabinet in personal guidance. If there are twice as many unemployed, I hope not, then it should not be the case that they should be satisfied with less support. We have to make sure that we do not do this in the past. We know that in a number of sectors, even if the economy goes down, there is still a shortage of hands. Is the Minister prepared to present options to ensure that we are ready for a next crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u90	I've been holding back, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u91	I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u92	I take your warning very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u93	That's good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u94	I have a question for Mr Van Weyenberg onzzp'ers. It is about the construction worker who is voluntarily independent and earns well, but who, when he is 60 years old, gets to hear from an insurer: you are no longer welcome with us. What's the perspective for this construction worker?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u95	We have seen more broadly in this coalition agreement that there is a group of self-employed people who really have a problem with insurance. I say to every self-employed person I speak to personally: think about insurance, because it seems far away, but you can also become disabled, and then you are very screwed. So I say think about it. I think that too few self-employed people are insuring themselves. You also know that my party has always said it must be a choice. But in the coalition agreement we put the emphasis on the bottom; Mr Heerma said it too. Then there's a minimum rate, and underneath you're an employee. So you're insured, too. I think that's the main route now, knowing that if you make it very broad, you'd be forcing all kinds of people for whom it's not a problem at all or not relevant. You add an element, namely the obligation to accept. Of course, much is behind that; you know that too. Like you, I am actually disappointed with the letter we received about the results of the conversation with insurers. But I'm telling you honestly that I don't have the solution yet, because before you know it, we're going to go to some kind of generic obligation. So let's focus on the bottom. If that does not work, we can look at alternatives along the lines of the coalition agreement. But I do share your concern: what are we doing for that 60-year-old construction worker who has paid his insurance premium for 20 years and is told in the 21st year that the insurance is cancelled? It is a fact that this is very unsatisfactory, but I do not have the exact answer. So I'm just asking the Minister: what can happen without forcing it on everyone at once? Otherwise, we're gonna hit a lot of people who don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u96	As far as the obligation is concerned, the parties may split up, but there is therefore no choice for this construction worker. The conversation with insurance companies has to be conducted, but it doesn't pay off for him. So I would like to call on you to do so, and we will also do so to the cabinet to ensure that there is a rapid perspective for that, because it is really a big problem. You know, in a job like this, you just have a pretty big risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u97	I agree with that, in the sense that there is actually no more soil. The bottom is the welfare, and if you have your own home or a working partner, you get nothing. Again, I share the concern, but I simply do not have the ready-made answer for this, I say honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u98	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Raemakers, I shall suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u99	I give the floor to Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Here we are again. It is my second budget SZW and it is also the second budget for Secretary of State Van Ark. A lot has happened in a year, and I must compliment the Secretary of State on her determination to act. There is an ambitious plan with more than 40 measures to help people in debt better and sooner. In addition, the proposal for a pay dispensation has fortunately been deleted. But the Secretary of State did not sit still and recently came up with a broad offensive to help more people with disabilities to work. That looks promising, although we have questions here and there. I'll get to that later, but the big line is nice. Are there any points of improvement when I look at the past year like this? Oh, yeah! The performance of chamber motions. Last year in the budget, the Chamber adopted the Bruins/Raemakers motion to come forward with a plan of action for more sheltered workplaces before the summer. So far we have never seen this plan and the number of sheltered places still lags behind the target and so people still fall between shore and ship and sit at home. Last year, including in the budget, the Chamber adopted the Raemakers/Peters motion to evaluate the scheme of the individual study allowance before 1 September 2018. That evaluation was delayed, and we still don't have it now. If this regulation is not working properly, and we are getting signals from students about it, we may need to adapt it and make choices within the framework of the budget. But you can't do that right now. Before the summer, the Chamber adopted the Ramaekers/Bruins motion to inform the Chamber about the planning and timing of the collection register before 20 December 2018. We were also told by the Secretary of State that this is not possible and that Minister Dekker is also talking about it. And so bad collection agencies can still do what they want. I ask the Secretary of State for one thing: can we agree that she will carry out these three important motions as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about three issues. Vulnerable young people, dealing with debt and the broad offensive. First to be vulnerable young people. Too often we see that young people do not succeed in getting off to a good start in the labour market. These are young people who come from special education or practical education, but also young people in the field of youth care or young people who stop training and do not know how to proceed. There are a total of 84,000 young people in the Netherlands who do not go to work or school and in municipalities there is not always an appropriate offer for the guidance of this group. This group of young people is often not good in the picture either. That is why D66 proposes the conclusion of a youth pact. We want the Secretary of State to work together with the municipalities to put the need for good guidance from young people to work or training high on the agenda. We want to see a day of the Youth Pact, where good ideas are exchanged. And we also want the white stain in the policies of the Empire and of municipalities to be properly investigated. The beauty is: the D66-Room Group is not alone in this. In more than 35 municipalities where D66 is in the city council, council questions are now being asked. Municipalities from Utrecht to Leudal. Are all young people in the picture and are they always well-helped? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to my second topic, dealing with debt. When it comes to dealing with debt, we are particularly looking forward to rapid implementation. What actions have already been taken in the broad debt approach for each measure? Are the signals green, orange or red? For the general consultation on 23 January, we would like to receive an overall overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u101	Before you go any further, Mr Renkema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u102	It is about the first block of Mr Raemakers, about young people. That's very appealing to me. Very nice, a youth pact, a day of the Youth Pact, but is D66 also willing to invest financially to make this transition from education or youth care to a place on the labour market, with an employer or elsewhere possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u103	The Empire has, of course, signed an intergovernmental programme with municipalities, in which one of the action points is to better guide vulnerable young people. This inter-administrative programme also includes a substantial financial flow of funds. So I think there's a lot of money already. One of the agreements is that municipalities are going to do this, but I see that municipalities often do not know how best to help this particular target group. What kind of training or event do you have to organize to talk to young people? Above all, I would like us to use the existing budget better and smarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u104	Would Mr Raemakers then also be prepared to enforce the responsibility for these resources, which seem to be sufficient in the eyes of D66, by municipalities or labour market regions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u105	This must, of course, be well accounted for locally. So a city council might as well ask where that money for vulnerable young people in this municipality is all going. What are we all doing about projects to help these young people? I would very much encourage it if as many municipal councils as possible followed the example of the municipal council members of D66 and would look very critically at what is actually being done for this group of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u106	So D66 sees no role for the cabinet in this? D66 refers to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u107	On the contrary, we want the Secretary of State to sit down with the municipalities to make a pact on what can be agreed, as is the case, for example, in the fight against child poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u108	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u109	I will continue with what I said about debt, because D66 is very concerned about the delay in the entry into force of simplifying the unwounded foot. As Divosa points out, I quote: 'people come into even greater financial problems every day'. Are you sure this law can't come into force faster? What intermediate measures does the cabinet take? Even when it comes to consumer credit, D66 thinks it can be done much faster. The cabinet states that the Minister of Finance will consider follow-up steps if insufficient progress is found. What exactly is this progress? And why does the Cabinet indicate that in the event of insufficient progress, follow-up steps are being considered? Can't the cabinet just follow up, in accordance with the coalition agreement? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. That's about the broad offensive. In that it is simple to switch a very nice one. That is one that has been put forward by many parties in this Chamber: make it easier for people to fall back on sheltered work or daily spending, or to grow to that if possible. One question. Is that reconnaissance gonna include the concern part? We often hear that financial incentives sometimes lead to people spending their days instead of getting a job. How do we ensure that people always get the place that best suits their development? Then about the newly proposed release. D66 fully endorses the principle of working must pay. We can see that some 60% of people with labour costs subsidies work part-time. That's not always a choice. Think about people with a medical hours limit. Apart from the structural release already in place in the Participation Act, there will be an additional temporary supplement. But how temporary is this supplement? Can the Secretary of State confirm that if necessary, municipalities can release this supplement as long as necessary? Finally. How's it gonna work in the Wajong? How do we make more work everywhere, so also in the Wajong, always pays more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u110	I just wanted to talk to you about the possibilities of earning extra money if you have a limit. Mr Raemakers already asked about the duration of that release. That is a fair question, because if it is too short, people will fall back. Then maybe they'll be in debt, and neither of us think that's a good idea. There are also proposals to make a surcharge instead of such a release scheme, a compensation. I'm sure you've seen the same thing, Mr. Raemakers. Then people get a full income instead of a benefit. Do you see anything in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u111	Look, the goal that Mr Van Dijk and I share is that more work should always pay more. We want people to take an extra step, they always notice it in the wallet, and that takes long enough. I think we can agree on that. Only the way in which this is done, the alternative now referred to by the SP, must be feasible in terms of taxation and so on. I'm very curious about the Secretary of State's reaction, if she's into it. I see now that there is a proposal to do this. I think it would be fine to do it this way, if we get a guarantee that if a municipality decides that the release should last longer, it can be extended at any time. That's what matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u112	Yes. Let us then note that we consider the present proposal as it stands to be insufficient. I also read everywhere that organizations say: you should extend it. That's what Mr Raemakers says. But you could also do it through compensation. The advantage of this is that you get out of the benefit and get a full income. I would seriously examine both options as an alternative to the Secretary of State's plan. Do you share that opinion, Mr. Raemakers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u113	I do not think we agree that this is not enough. I just want it to be clearer. You have people with medical hours. They usually keep that medical hours restriction for a lifetime. But you also have other people who work part-time and those people you want to pay extra. The question is: can this always be extended? Mr Van Dijk says 'we agree that it is not enough', but I do not agree with Mr Van Dijk on that. I see something about that in the letter and I wonder how to interpret it. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to clarify this first. I actually hope that she can promise me, or clarify, that if a municipality says 'this is someone who can only work part-time for a while because of the circumstances', which can always be extended. I'd really like to hear that from the Secretary of State first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u114	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u115	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Renkema on his fine story on equal opportunities. I think it's a very fair story. When it comes to equal opportunities, I often talk about land under the feet for everyone in the Netherlands. Because if you have solid ground under your feet, you can also look ahead and feel progress. We've actually ended up in a time of glory in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is doing well, we are happy, we are prosperous, the economic growth is enormous. In addition, we must continue to look at the solid ground beneath the feet of all those people. Is there still solid ground under the feet for everyone? Or are people falling between shore and ship? Because according to the figures, the Netherlands is in good shape. Unemployment has never been so low and economic growth is enormous. But at the same time we see behind these figures that many people do not benefit from it and do not notice enough of it. They don't have and feel that solid ground under their feet. It is our job, here in this house, to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands has the certainty that they can look forward. Because there is economic growth and there are companies that make profits, but at the same time one million people in the Netherlands live in poverty. That's almost impossible to reconcile, isn't it? On the one hand, employers are shouting for people and there are shortages in the labour market, but on the other hand, more than a million people are on the sidelines. They cannot work, they are no longer active and therefore they also miss much in life. In the labour market, the number of fixed contracts is good, but at the same time there are still a lot of flexible contracts and there is a large group living in false self-employment. These people once have a zero-hour contract and then return to false self-employment. And we see people with a different surname who, despite the huge labour market shortages, do not get a job. So on the one hand, the Netherlands is doing well, and that's good. But on the other hand there are too many people who do not notice enough of it and who do not have the solid ground under their feet. And this is the time, also for this cabinet, to make sure everyone takes advantage of it. So it is indeed about Mr Renkema's equal opportunities. It's about the solid ground under the feet. If we look at the protection that everyone needs to be able to look ahead, the ambitions of the cabinet, and what has come of it for a year, then I am disappointed. For in the coalition agreement there are good things about greater security for everyone, so that we can share growth with each other. There are good things about a pension agreement, which makes pensions sustainable, but also about a labour market that ensures less flexible contracts and that self-employed people with a small income become employees again. But in the meantime, a year later, we see that they are still plans. A lot of committees are being set up. I would also like to remind the coalition parties that during the campaigns before the elections, big words were used about, for example, the DBA Act and the policy of the previous cabinet. It should all be different. "We'd do it differently" was said. I have to say, more than a year later, that we are not there yet. I understand it's complicated. How do you deal with independence? How are we supposed to fight self-employment? With these questions, we ourselves wrestled in the previous cabinet period, and we made a number of proposals for this. I understand that it is complicated, but the question is whether there is political will in the coalition to actually do it. Does the Minister really have the room to work on that protection for the self-employed? Does he really have the space to work on the fact that the people who are not at all independent are taken back into employment? 'Cause then why is there still that standstill? The ambition of the cabinet is great, but where are the concrete steps? We were disappointed by the letter, which actually states: "We are not yet getting out. Europe is complicated." What are we going to do in the meantime for the people who work at Deliveroo and are now unprotected on the bike, and for the people in the Uber taxi, who also ask for the necessary protection? In short, what is plan B of the cabinet, of this minister? Mr. Chairman. I've already touched on protection for everyone and also for the self-employed. It's a big deal if you're not insured, or you can't insure because of an excess premium, because of your age or your illness history, and then you still get sick. Then you've lost everything. That leaves you with the welfare. And if you have a working partner, it often leads to the sale of homes and deep misery. That's the kind of shit we can avoid. I just noticed in the interruptions that the coalition parties too would like to do something about that. I would therefore like to call on them, as well as the cabinet, to take that intermediate step. If that requirement for disability insurance goes too far for the coalition at the moment, let us at least ensure that it is possible for that construction worker of 60 to take out that insurance. Because there's no choice for that construction worker right now. The choice is uninsured walking around, with the risk of welfare and a lot of misery. So let us avoid that now instead of moving it to committees, so we have to wait and leave people in uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. Then there's enforcement. Once again, after last year's round table, we all found that there are a few companies in the Netherlands that are new here, are internationally funded and do not respect the Dutch rules of the game. At that time, however, we said that we must tackle these companies. That's what we did through the IRS. When I read the Minister's letter, I'm worried. 'Cause it doesn't seem like much has happened since then. We are now, after the widely shared noise in the Chamber, a year further. Can the Minister provide any insight into this? How are we going to maintain it? How are we gonna deal with cowboys like this? 'Cause that's what it is. I would really like to see more power from the cabinet there. Then the huge number of flexible contracts in the Netherlands. We will discuss this with the Cabinet later during the discussion of the Labour Market in Balance Act, so I will not say much about that now. But we see at the same time in the CBS study that has come in over the last few days, that a lot of people with a flexible contract do not build up a pension. That's a big problem. It also affects the larger pension debate. I would like to ask the Minister: how can we solve this? How can we give these people perspective? Is the Minister prepared, for example, to remove the waiting period for pensions for temporary workers? Is the Minister prepared to address the cost difference between temporary workers and permanent workers? After all, all these people deserve a good pension, and that also applies to people who are in a flexible contract for a long time and who are therefore, in fact, barely or not building up a pension. A big problem; what will the mistress do about this? Mr. Chairman. Then the social development companies. These are crucial for many people to get to work. These are people with disabilities who are keen to get to work and who are not yet able to take the step towards a regular workplace, but who can take the step through the social development company. We welcome the Secretary of State and her plans. She has removed the pay dispensation and then said: I am coming up with a broad offensive. That's where we see leads. Compliments for that. But we also see that the social development business is crucial for us as an element for people who are remote from the labour market, to get to work. I believe that the Secretary of State still has too little ambition. Is the Secretary of State prepared to develop a plan to give these social development companies a real future? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. And is the Secretary of State prepared to give such support to people with disabilities under legal law as Mr Jasper van Dijk mentioned? Unfortunately, a lot of people are still at home on the couch, but they want to get to work and look for that support. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give them perspective as well? Finally, Mr President. Can we not guarantee that people who are in the target register will receive a job or training offer within a given period of time? We see a lot of people in that register who want to work, but are not at work. That's a big problem. Mr. Chairman. Those social development companies need a budget. Since Rutte II, it has been severely cut back. That cut is going to go on. With the Secretary of State's good plans, I'd like to call on the Cabinet to stop that austerity as well. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Does she also want to look at the participation budget? Many municipalities indicate that they want to help a much larger group to work, which they see at home. But there's just not enough money for that. I was in Zeeland a few weeks ago. There was a man there who was on welfare for a long time. He called the municipality twice, but the municipality says: sorry, you're in the wrong category; we don't see any perspective for you, so we're not going to help you either. I don't think we want to live in a country like this. Everyone wants to get to work. So let's give everyone that support, even if it costs a little longer and if it costs a little more. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? Mr. Chairman. Then sheltered work. Of course, sheltered work is crucial. We see that it is very difficult to fill the sheltered work. The hard thing is that with the reduction of social work provision, the sheltered work will be filled in. A lot of people are waiting for that. That seems to be very difficult. There, too, there is a need for a sufficient budget. The shelter bonus expires. That's temporary money. The same goes for the no-risk policy that is attached to it. That saves a little bit of €3,000 per sheltered area, €4,000. That is why it is not at all attractive for municipalities to continue with sheltered work. I would also like to see a perspective from the Secretary of State as to whether she is prepared to look at the budget for sheltered work, so that it actually works and so that people really come to that place. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the ESF money. Many older workers, status holders and the long-term unemployed find it difficult to get to work. Through the ESF, the European Social Fund, and municipalities, almost 100,000 people in this target group have come to work as internship counsellor, job coach, playground worker or street coach. We're out of European money. The municipalities would like to continue with this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see how we can continue these successful projects until 2020? If we don't do something, it'll stop for these people. That would be a shame. Mr. Chairman. We have also had several debates on the austerity of the WIA, people in incapacity for work. We should not want 250 million savings on future sick people at this time. We have seen a reprieve letter for this. Can the Minister provide a little more clarity and insight into this? Is the Minister prepared to take a real look at this austerity, which is antisocial as far as we are concerned? Any eyes on that yet? Mr. Chairman. Then poverty. I told you, the Netherlands is doing well, but a lot of people are still living in poverty. That's a lot of kids, too. We made 100 million available to those children in poverty a few years ago. We also had a debate on this last year, because what appears to be the case? Some municipalities spent that money, which was really meant for children in poverty, not for children, but for lampposts or the shortage within the municipality. Mr Jasper van Dijk also referred to the fact that about a quarter of the money does not end up where it should end up. Earlier we said here with each other: if it does not work through the municipalities it was a hard appointment with the municipalities we have to go ear tags. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take the next step? Mr. Chairman. My final point is the future of work. A lot of people are experiencing tremendous stress. That's over a million people in the Netherlands. That eventually leads to burn-out. Fortunately, the nine-to-five course is further and further away, but we combine everything: work, care, relaxation, friends. But people get stuck in that, too. Now we have the Working Time Act, which says that people must also be at peace. We do not want to go back to that 9-to-5 job for those people, but we do want to get enough rest for people who are stuck. We call that the right to be unreachable from time to time, not to respond to that work email from your boss, because we see that on Friday nights or Saturdays in line in the supermarket the boss will answer on the phone. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look with us at a right of inaccessibility and to adapt the Arbo Act to that effect? Because we do not want to impose this here from The Hague; we want an agreement to be made in companies: when can we be reached here or not, depending on the work done? Because the culture of always standing and always going on, eventually leads to burn-out and not to relaxed life and work, which would also be very nice. Finally, Mr President. The future of work also has everything to do with the platform economy, which we have talked about before. That is a hugely growing market with international companies, which present themselves as a kind of modern marketplace with supply and demand but which are in fact large employers. This is a market place for new services, with new jobs and a lot of innovation, but it also has a shadow side for people who are self-employed or self-employed. I said at the beginning of this week that we, the Labour Party, would like to take an initiative on this issue with an initiative paper, but I would also like to ask the Economic and Social Council to explore this world for once, because that world is new, has all kinds of new insights and has a shadowy side. Is the Cabinet, the Minister, prepared to ask the Economic and Social Council to present this world in a reconnaissance for us so that we can look politically at how we are dealing with this new service and new jobs and how we can ensure that the shadow side does not touch people, so that people can work there too and not walk around unprotected? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u116	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u117	What kind of labour market do we want? Fair pay for honest work, but also room for people who are not self-sufficient in society and space for people with disabilities, but also hope and future for people in poverty or in debt and for people without jobs. We'll talk about that in a turbulent time. There's a lot going on in the field of social affairs. I'll mention a few things. We almost had a pension agreement. We had almost agreed on early retirement and an increase in the AOW age. The labour market is looking for a new balance between security and flexibility and between the interests of employers and employees. The economy is running like a bulldozer, but at the same time many people, especially the elderly, still find it difficult to get to work. The number ofzzp'ers continues to increase, with all the questions that this raises about the sustainability of our social security system. Mr. Chairman. There will be a broad offensive to help more people with disabilities to work, but at the same time hundreds of thousands of people face problematic debt. There are quite a few contradictions in society and in today's labour market. In my introduction, I said: what kind of labour market do we want in the Netherlands? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this is an inclusive, fair labour market where everyone can actually participate. I would like to focus on five groups: people with disabilities, vulnerable young people, older workers, displacement by migrant workers and people in poverty and debt. Mr. Chairman. First of all, people with disabilities. At the moment, there are still many people with disabilities on the sidelines. They have a distance from the labour market. That is what it sounds like, but I think it is the other way around: I think that the labour market has a distance from these people. I am increasingly convinced in all my work visits and conversations that these are very normal people who want to work. The only thing they need is a little support in the back, a little guidance in the workplace. Fortunately, there are many employers for whom it is the most common thing in the world to give these people a job and many social entrepreneurs who want to work for an inclusive labour market. As far as I am concerned, this should be the most ordinary thing in the world for all employers in the Netherlands. Two weeks ago, the first INC Awards were presented at a fantastic gala in which the Secretary of State was also present. It was a celebration for people with disabilities and it was a celebration for entrepreneurs who could show that an inclusive personnel policy is valuable for their business and for society. I am sure that this event has inspired not only the entrepreneurs, but also the Secretary of State. I do have a number of points and questions for the Secretary of State. Firstly, we hear far too often now that people have some work and then get out of the picture. The Secretary of State rightly writes that she wants to promote the use of job coaching. It is good that employers and employees can make a request for customisation in the future and that job coaching plays a prominent role in this. At the same time, I find it vulnerable that job coaching in the Participation Act is not a provision and therefore not a right as it is in the Wajong. Municipalities can therefore also make a completely different choice. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? Mr. Chairman. When a disabled worker arrives on the work floor, it is essential that there are also colleagues who are ready for him, who give him a little guidance, who are available for questions and also outside the office hours in the evening just to pick up the phone if there is anything private. Just a buddy. For that there are good trainings like the Harrie Helpt training. Here in the House of Representatives, too, this training was recently given. Our MPs Rieti and Manon aren't here right now, but maybe the messengers would like to report that they're called? The restaurant company's chief logistics officer, Andre, has become "Harrie." They've had training to guide people with disabilities. The House of Representatives as an employer really sets an example here. As far as I am concerned, such training can be given to all companies and organisations that employ people with disabilities. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how she can promote this. I also tabled a broad motion in September on this internal guidance and on-the-job coaching. A lot of extra money is now going to the labour market regions, which need to draw up an action plan. Can the internal guidance be explicitly included in the discussions and agreements on these means? Mr. Chairman. The second group: young people. A lot of young people who get rid of the vso and the pro are at home. Sometimes they have some work to do, but they also get out of the picture easily. Since many of these young people are not entitled to benefits up to the age of 27, there is no incentive for municipalities to mediate them to work. Apart from social costs, it is, of course, particularly terrible for these young people themselves if they are left to their own devices. In the General Reviews, the Christian Union has provided a financial impetus to help young people from the US and the pro to work. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State exactly how this money is being spent. Young people up to 27 years of age are often not eligible for provision and support under the Participation Act. For example, they are often not entitled to benefits if they are still able to attend funded education and are not eligible for support in the search for work. For example, the contribution for employment and the release of a voluntary allowance or other income do not apply and municipalities are in their stomachs. They want to work with these young people, but they are at thresholds. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a critical look at the provisions on young people under 27 years of age in the Participation Act and to look together with the municipalities to see how they can guide young people to work or training?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr Renkema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u119	I share the concerns of the Christian Union about vulnerable young people coming from practice school or secondary special education. I was also pleased with the extra impetus given at the time of the General Political Reviews, but let us be clear, that is a one-off impulse. But there are young people coming out of education every year and they're looking for a place. How does the Christian Union view a structural solution for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u120	We cannot simply turn to financial frameworks. We have made agreements for the years to come on how much money will go into and out of the Empire, but it is quite clear that these young people in the Christian Union are on the retina. I am indeed very pleased with the financial impetus we have arranged, but Mr Renkema is right, it is a once-in-a-lifetime impulse. What I would very much like to see, and let me pass on this question to the Secretary of State, is that we can evaluate this momentum to see whether we have really been able to reach those young people and whether a more structural form of such an approach might help. I would think that would be a very nice prospect for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u122	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u123	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would like to underline the motion tabled by Mr Hermans and Mr Bergkamp to the Health Committee on the smooth flow between the various regulations and provisions. For employers, it doesn't matter whether people have Wajong, are covered by the Participation Act or have day-to-day spending from the Wlz or Wmo. Therefore, there must be one contact point for the employer. It is also important for the people who are involved to work in an integral way. Governments, education and healthcare institutions must work together on continuous guidance across the different domains of life. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We moeten af van bestuurlijk geharrewar en schotten, maar juist integraal samenwerken.]] I am preparing a motion on this point. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views. The third group I'm really worried about are older unemployed. There have recently been several worrying reports that this group is difficult to get to work, despite labour shortages. How's the Minister looking at this? When I hear that only a small number of routes have started to retrain people into a profession of chance, I do have serious questions. How can we ensure that our labour market remains inclusive for older people? Mr. Chairman. The fourth group is the migrant workers and is concerned with labour market displacement. There are, of course, advantages to the free movement of workers and services in the EU, but I fear that we have too little regard for the adverse effects that this has. The CPB notes significant displacement at the basis of the labour market. Workers from Eastern Europe often work and live under poor conditions. My group chairman has just made a very clear point on this issue in an interview. We see that, despite the new Posting of Workers Directive, there are still undesirable or unintended cost benefits for employers working with migrant workers. This may amount to 20% to 30% of gross wage costs according to a research firm, for example because social security contributions may be paid in the country of origin. Moreover, the new Detaching Directive does not apply at all to the international transport sector. Again and again it appears that there are employers who try to get as cheap as possible from employees. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the inspection must be on top of this. I would ask the Minister to investigate the cost advantages for employers in construction, agriculture and transport still exist in the use of migrant workers in relation to Dutch workers and what can be done about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u124	A legitimate concern when it comes to labour migration. Is the Christian Union prepared to support the proposal to introduce employment permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u125	We have free movement of persons, goods and services. These are things that bring us a lot of prosperity, but that only works if there are fair opportunities and if there is no repression on the labour market. I think it is important that we ensure that people from outside the Netherlands do not come here to work for a hunger wage. We have to make sure there's no advantage in just getting people from far away. We must ensure that our Dutch employees are given fair opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u126	One of the things you can do is set a threshold. The introduction of employment permits is such a direct threshold. That way, you make sure you can control it, get a grip on it. Is the Christian Union prepared to support that proposal from the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u127	I think there are many advantages for Dutch people who can work in other countries. I think that if we set a threshold, other countries will do the same for the Dutch. I don't think that's the way we should go. We need much sooner to ensure that there are equal opportunities and, in particular, that older unemployed people are not replaced by people from Poland or Romania who come here to work for shit. We don't want that. It's got to be for a fair wage. Then our Dutch just have a good chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr De Jong, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u129	We are talking all day today about a group of people in the Netherlands being difficult to get to work. We are talking about doing everything we can to help the people who are already here, for example our older ones. At the same time, it is said that we are concerned about labour migration. One doesn't go with the other. So I actually want a clear yes or no. Does the Christian Union support the proposal to introduce employment permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u130	No. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u131	You cannot go any further, because there is an interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u132	A clear answer, but it does oblige Mr Bruins to come up with alternatives and I do not really hear them yet. I have worked well with Mr Segers, Mr Bruins' party leader, in the field of language courses for migrant workers. Nothing but praise for that. But it remains to be seen that your party and mine are both very concerned about the influx of migrant workers. They come here despite all kinds of rules about equal pay for equal work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u133	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u134	If Mr Bruins does not want to pass on work permits, is it crocodile tears when he says here that labour migration leads to problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr Jasper van Dijk is quite right. In theory it is well arranged, in theory Poland costs as much per hour as the Dutch. But in practice we see that there are still abuses, that employers always manage to find ways to put someone to work. And that is at the expense of the older workers here in the Netherlands, people over 55 who do not come to work. There is a responsibility for employers. They must ensure that they work safely and pay a good wage. I call on the Cabinet to ensure that it does not only work in theory, but also in practice. Wherever the bad guys are, we need to close the holes. We need to make sure that you can't get any more work done, but that Dutch people get a fair chance to do fair work for a fair wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u136	I fully agree with that. We must therefore ensure that wages and working conditions are maintained. That's not happening right now. Look at the parking lots along the highway. Those are some kind of campgrounds for Eastern European truck drivers. Look at the greenhouses. You know. There is no maintenance and therefore it is far too attractive for Dutch employers to attract migrant workers from Eastern Europe. Will we make a joint proposal to strengthen this enforcement and monitoring of this unlimited labour migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u137	This cabinet will increase the budget for inspection, so there will be stronger enforcement, but I would very much like to think together with Mr Van Dijk about how we can really strengthen that inspection. We need to maintain it more firmly so that the Dutch and older unemployed get a fair chance on the labour market. For that, I like to put my hand out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u138	We also discussed the issue of labour migration during the notation consultation on integration. What struck me at the time was that the leader of the Christian Union spoke of a potential poison and a second major multicultural drama. I would like to see how the Social Affairs spokesperson of the Christian Union looks at this phenomenon. Does he think it's a second major multicultural drama? Or are there any positive aspects of labour migration for our economy to report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u139	As I said earlier on the interruption of my colleague from the PVV, there are also very good opportunities for Dutch people to work abroad. What I emphasise here in my contribution, and with that I am entirely in line with my party leader, is that something does indeed go wrong when it continues to push the labour market forward, whereby workers from low-wage countries can work here for a living. Then we leave a whole generation of older workers in the cold. We really can't let that go on our side. These people deserve an honest job for a fair wage, and I really want to make a living for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u140	I don't think it's a witness at all. I don't think it's a thank-you witness. People come here to work and contribute to our economy. It is 370,000 employees, it is almost 5% of all jobs in the Netherlands, it is 11 billion euros turnover. It is a contribution to the Dutch economy. False oppositions are being posted. I think Mr Bruins quoted from a report by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. I got it right here. Studies carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Central Planning Bureau show that displacement by migrant workers is rare. A previous report by SEO Economic Research shows that companies need migrant workers very badly. These are just hard facts. There is also talk of labour migration contributions to our economy. If we want to maintain our prosperity as we have it, if we want to continue to grow our economy, does the Christian Union recognise that we need labour migration in the coming years, that although we also have a number of challenges to face, we must not place false contradictions here and not start talking in terms of a major multicultural drama?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u141	I recognise that our companies need a lot of labour. At the same time, I see that a lot of people are still unemployed. Indeed, the SEO's report, the second report cited by Mr Kuzu, shows that there are still employers who hire people who go to work for a bummer, leaving Dutch older people unemployed. I find that morally reprehensible. I think you should give people a fair paycheck for honest work. People who do fair work for a fair wage in this country, I am grateful. They are very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u142	I'm also gonna take a look at the SCP investigation. This says there's no displacement. In addition: because Dutch people do not want to do the work. I find it very difficult to accept that I know that at the supermarket in Utrecht where I come from, the courses now have to be filled by Eastern European migrant workers at night, because Dutch people do not want to do that work, while in Utrecht we have thousands of people in that welfare box. So I'd like to take the other side. Does Mr Bruins therefore agree with the VVD that fewer and fewer reasons for not accepting work are allowed? That is actually what the SCP says: we no longer see it as repression, because people no longer want to do the job. I don't want to accept that. Does Mr Bruins agree with the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u143	We have a good social security system. We are very happy about this and we can be proud of it as a country. That doesn't have to be free. We live in a time when we can say that sometimes it is okay to do something about it. This social security system can only exist if there is reciprocity and solidarity. That means we're welcome to ask back when people are in need. If that is in all reasonableness and civility, we can talk to the Christian Union about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u144	We have a very good social system. The basis for this system depends on our willingness to work together. You say we have such a good social system. Yes, but I don't think it's right that we have more than 1.1 million people on the side who want to work more, while there are so many vacancies and the work needs to be done. The employer is then tempted to obtain it abroad. I understand your point about the cost benefits. That's an interesting point. But the other side is this: then we also ask the people here to make the ultimate effort to get to work. If people do not want that, I find it too easy when you say: it is, because we have such a good social system. No, there shouldn't be an excuse not to accept work. Do you agree with us? If municipalities do too little about this, do you agree that these municipalities notice this in the funding they receive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u145	I fully recognise the mismatch Mr Wiersma has highlighted. There are indeed a lot of unemployed people who do not come to work. There are a lot of vacancies that can't be filled. This also means, for example, that we are training the wrong type of people when it comes to influx. We have far too few practical trained people. We have far too few technicians. We're not doing enough to develop Life Long. This means that at a later age there is also a mismatch between job and skills. We need to bet a lot more on that. Then there are the measures to which Mr Wiersma refers. I'm gonna have to take a look at that. I do not exclude that we can take a step in this together, but the tone and the precise interpretation are very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u146	Very briefly, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u147	I count my blessings. I think that is an honest answer and also an answer that offers a perspective, I think, for this discussion. Because all we can do is look at one side and look at the side you're pointing at if we're willing to look at the other side. For I do not want to say in the end at this economic time: we have left far too many people on the sidelines. Sometimes people have to cross a bridge. Yeah, I agree with what you're saying about retraining. We all find things, and we do things on them. But eventually there can be a consequence and there are tools for the municipalities to bring people to the ultimate to accept that work. If they refuse, it can't be without consequences. I hear Mr Bruins saying that he thinks that is an interesting idea and that he is going to explore it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u148	In the principle of reciprocity, Mr Wiersma and I find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u149	It's still not quite sharp for me. I understand Mr Bruins' point of view on the enforcement of rules. The coalition agreement invests very heavily in the Labour Inspectorate and we have the law's approach to bogus constructions. You just have to pay honestly for work. I fully agree with the Christian Union's plea, and I actually think that the whole Chamber agrees with that. But Mr Bruins is adding displacement to that. I think Mr Kuzu just quoted from that report. There's no such thing as displacement, is there? The core, macro, is that we don't see it, right? So I'm gonna find out which camp Mr. Bruins is in right now. Is that the camp "maintain" or the camp "take jobs"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u150	As I said earlier, in theory there is no displacement and it is all well arranged through Brussels and the European Union. But in practice it is not well arranged. There's still bad guys out there. That's what we want to deal with. We want an investigation to see which cost advantages that would in theory no longer exist, in practice. So it is a question of cost advantages that are undesirable and unintentional, because in theory I am going along with Mr Van Weyenberg's report. But we're just seeing that there are labour abuses that we don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u151	Of course things go wrong every now and then, I'm sure. That enforcement should be tougher in the case of employers who circumvent the rules, we find each other there. But Mr Bruins is always very careful in his words and so is his group chairman. They always say words matter. Then putting people away as poison... I hear you talking about employers who circumvent the rules, who don't follow the agreements, who exploit and underpay people. Are they not the poison and not the migrant working here trying to earn his living?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr Bruins, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u153	Entrepreneurs who do not comply with the rules, entrepreneurs who do not deal with their employees in a social way, with natural capital, with social capital, with human capital, entrepreneurs who only go for the lowest price and the lowest hourly wage and do not include the adjacent aspects, are employers we really need to do something about. We must ensure that they comply with the rules we agree with each other, so that what should work in theory will also work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u154	I understand that, but I am trying to provoke Mr Bruins to make a statement or give him that opportunity. Many migrant workers are currently making an essential contribution to our economy, in agriculture and horticulture and many other sectors. Saying they're "the poison," I don't like it. So I ask whether Mr Bruins would like to change the words of his group chairman and say: what we actually meant was 'employers who exploit people and do not follow the rules, which are the poison of this society'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u155	People who try to circumvent rules and thus create situations that are unsafe or unfair, that is people we want to address. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u156	Mr. Kuzu, I have reason to believe that this subject is now quite a wide-ranging subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u157	But I just want to know. I've only posted one interruption all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u158	I'll give it to you. If you ask a quick and concise question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u159	I wonder, then, who is the poison or potential poison of society according to the Christian Union? What did the Christian Union mean at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u160	Ah, Mr. Chairman, we live in a broken society. There's so much poison. Things aren't going well. But we're trying to make good rules here, and we want to keep them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mr President, have you heard an answer to my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u162	That's not up to me. Mr Bruins is talking about his own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u163	Through you, I would like to ask Mr Bruins to answer the question of who is the potential poison of society to which the Christian Union refers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u164	Once again the same question and then Mr Bruins continues with his follow-up. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u165	We are striving for legislation that is fair. If you break the law, you do things that aren't right. You can put the word "toxin" on that if Mr. Kuzu insists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u166	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The agriculture and horticulture has already been mentioned. Many migrant workers work there, but also many self-employed entrepreneurs and family workers. We want to deal with people in a good way, but in agriculture and horticulture we often see that there is no good access to work-related care. There are also many accidents in that sector. I would like to draw attention to that. In order to work safely and safely, it is necessary to focus more on prevention, awareness, work-related care and sustainable employability in agriculture and horticulture. This should apply to all workers in the agricultural and horticultural sectors. In order to support this important objective, I have tabled an amendment which my fellow Members have been able to see coming. We want to free up resources to ensure that migrant workers, as well as assisting family members and those who work as entrepreneurs in this sector can work safely and fairly. The last group I want to talk about briefly is the group that lives in poverty and is in debt. We see that there are still people who can't make ends meet or who are stuck in debt. In addition, in-work poverty is an important issue. Mr Peters of the CDA has already addressed it extensively. I would like to add my voice to the questions he has raised. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to mention children in poverty. Fortunately, with the 100 million, the so-called Klijnsmaalten, a lot of good happens. However, it is still largely unclear what this money is being spent on and whether it actually reaches the target group. Mr Gijs van Dijk mentioned that. There is no doubt that we are going to talk about this in the AO Poverty and debt, but I would like to say that with Mr Van Dijk I want to look closely at the use of these funds and the distribution of money between municipalities and civil society organisations. I would also like to raise the issue of poverty in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. This is also urgently needed, because poverty there is poignant, especially among children. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what the Cabinet is actually doing about poverty in the overseas parts of our Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the broad debt approach. I would like to mention four points which need to be taken into account in the approach to be taken. The collection register must now really get off the ground; no further delay, please. The Simplification Act: the Secretary of State reports that the delay is considerable. I'm really worried about that. I'd really like to have all the strength to get that going. Access to debt relief: it is essential that people with debt are helped early. This can be done by the municipality, but also by voluntary organizations. How will the additional financial impetus that the Christian Union has managed to achieve in the financial considerations be further regulated? Finally, tackling the accumulation of fines. How's the effect coming? So much for my first-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u168	Thank you. Mr Jasper van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u169	Let's get some more information first. It's just been quoted eagerly from the SEO investigation. This would show that labour migration is fantastic. That research was carried out on behalf of the temporary agency industry. It was a bit of a "duck-duck study": you ask, we turn. But now my question. The approach of debt collection agencies is a major, important point for the Christian Union and also for the SP. The Authority Consumer & Market has said that debt collection agencies which deliberately violate several times and therefore send incorrect collections to debtors should actually be removed from the market. Do you agree with me that we should see if the Secretary of State could investigate such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u170	When it comes to tackling the abuses in the collection sector, the Christian Union is in favour of a hard line. We're gonna have to get the collection register first. Then we can see what the good collection agencies are and what the bad collection agencies are. Then you can put conditions on that and then you can go and deal with it. I'm very curious to see how far we can get. At the moment, I am particularly grumpy because of the delay in that register, because I just want it to be quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u171	Once, the collection register needs to get there fast. Then we have transparency. Then we'll know who's good and who's not good. In my view, we should indeed look at the step to get the wrong collection agencies off the market. I'd like your support on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u172	Bring it on. Let's get to work, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u173	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u174	The older employee is in the corner where the blows fall and when he's down, this cabinet makes sure he gets another financial kick. Mr. Chairman. That is the essence of my speech, and that will be shown by 50PLUS next. "Employers would rather keep a job open than hire a 50-pluser." That was one of the headlines last week. Recent research conducted by Vlasblom and Schippers has shown that employers prefer to keep a job. Rather a job vacancy than an employee who is 50 years of age or older. Still 17 years of work, but not interesting for employers. Even if 50-plussers apply eagerly and are willing to turn in salary, then the willingness to hire them, to give a job opportunity, is saddeningly low. Job opportunities are simply destroyed by age. SMEs The Netherlands responded that employers are short-sighted. So the industry organization says that its members are short-sighted. Yeah, that's gonna help the unemployed. Isn't that a blow to the face of all those older workers desperate for work? What can we expect from this minister? The Minister regularly monitors the employment rate of older people, which has increased. Yes, that's right, but that's mainly because of the later retirement and, in particular, because of the longer working with the same employer. But almost 60% of the 45-plussers without work are now long-term unemployed. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau calls this a structural and not a cyclical problem. So it's a structural problem. Applying endlessly while not recognizing the opportunities and not being offered by employers. 50PLUS would like a national roll-out of the Rotterdam approach whereby beneficiaries of assistance 60+ can, after a thorough individual assessment of the employment opportunities, be exempted from this frustrating and demotivating job application obligation. 50PLUS also wants the IOW, the income provision of older unemployed, to remain from the 60th year of life. It is still a major problem and I have just referred to it as a structural problem. A structural problem also requires structural flanking policies. If you're unemployed, if you're down and you've had to take all the necessary hits, you're applying to crush you, but you're not getting to work. That is why we really believe that the IOW should continue to cover older unemployed people at the age of 60. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We have seen a preview of the Labour Market Act in balance, in which the transition fee for older workers is greatly reduced. After ten years of work, the construction stops and after years of work you are dismissed with less than four months' salary. As far as we are concerned, that is a financial kick in the direction of the older workers by this minister. If that's what you're getting, because all the training costs can still be deducted. Isn't that crazy? Easy to get fired and shipped off with a tip? Job opportunities can be increased if knowledge is up-to-date and labour market-relevant. How are we gonna do that? How is this cabinet going to ensure that this accessibility to a lifetime is developed for older people regardless of starting qualification and is secured up to the AOW age? Our motion on lifelong learning for all has recently been adopted. Can the Minister indicate how he's going to implement it? Because if you ask people to work longer, then you should also make it possible for them to continue to develop into that AOW age. We need to get rid of wasting human capital with extensive work experience. We need to invest heavily in sustainable employability, especially of older people. It still doesn't work. How's the Cabinet gonna do this? 50PLUS believes that guidance to the work of people in the assistance should be improved. Does the cabinet want to make a commitment to this? Age is mainly a criterion on which older people are rejected. We would very much like to give concrete expression to the strengthening of inspection monitoring of discrimination in the recruitment and selection process, including age discrimination. We have taken note of the Secretary of State's letter, but is setting up a hotline sufficient, can the inspection address age discrimination adequately and, if so, what are the sanctions? The labour market in the broad sense is really sick despite the favourable development of employment and the cheerful stories of this cabinet. To give you an example: the redundant older workers are turning into construction, as things are getting better economically, often back as a self-employed worker, which is often not voluntary, but because they have to take all the risks associated with it and the great social uncertainties. In fact, disability insurance is priceless for many people and pension provision is certainly impossible to achieve. The economy is growing, but an increasing number of working citizens are in junk jobs and quasi-self-employment. This security of existence and the social development perspective represent so little in practice. Workers are becoming increasingly replaceable and available on call, a disposable item. This is precisely what is causing social protection to falter, and that is what is causing economic prosperity in our country to grow. We must not allow that to happen. In spite of all the fine words and the necessary patchwork, this cabinet is still not doing enough to ensure real enforcement in the labour market: dealing with fake structures, fake contracts and uninsuredzzp's. In fact, we are putting the problems of thezzp'ers further and further in front of us. That's impossible, isn't it? That should have been solved by now. Today it was said in Het Financieele Dagblad: "Million jobs prone to "verzzp'ing." A doubling to 1.8 million. 50PLUS requires thatzzp'ers must be able to take out a collectively organised disability insurance, which is also affordable for them. In this respect, this Minister can really take on a compelling role. He went to talk to insurance companies, but we really need a solution. Can't we just have a publicly funded alternative? 50PLUS is also of the opinion that everyone, includingzzp'ers, should be able to build up supplementary pensions or make a pension provision for themselves. Everyone in the pension system and insurance against disability also helps to keep the welfare state healthy and turns the race to the bottom on working conditions that threaten our economy and society. We also believe that the increasing number ofzzp'ers will have to make a categorical contribution to the AOW. Is the cabinet gonna take care of this? A thorough, focused exploration seems to be in order. With Spain and Portugal, the Netherlands is now among the three countries with the highest flexicurity rate. The number of flex workers has now crossed the 2 million limit and this is worrying. Increasing flex and false self-employment is the Achilles heel of the labour market and undermines, as has been said, the achievements of our social security. The government sees that this labour market is out of balance and has recently come up with the answer: the Labour Market Act in balance. Without going into detail about the technique, this law deserves to be dealt with separately and carefully. We do have our doubts as to whether that balance will come back. In our view, this law mainly applies plasters. Basic contrasts in the labour market remain broadly in place and, worse still, this law will make everyone a little flexicurity by 2020: fixed jobs are not being addressed the norm, payroll and flexible work are not being tackled hard, extension of the probationary period increases uncertainty, adjustment of the chain clause makes it easier to keep people in temporary contracts, re-introducing the multiple dismissal ground weakens the employee's position and although the transition fee for everyone from the first day is really a plus, the reduction of the transition fee after a longer employment period, I already mentioned it as a kick towards older workers. 50PLUS doesn't have a good word for this. I'd like a response. We think it is wise for an independent committee to consider whether labour law, social security and taxation still fit well with the rapidly changing economy and labour market. How is the independence of this committee guaranteed? How is the Chamber informed about the whole process and the work of this committee? 50PLUS asks this cabinet to put an end to labour market polarisation. Put a bottom under the labour market! Run a recon for that and come up with proposals! Even the Council of State is asking for that. 50PLUS is largely positive about the broad offensive of the State Secretary for the Labour Market for people with disabilities. We would like to see a re-evaluation and strengthening of the social development company with sufficient resources to ensure that it is strengthened. Sustainable work for people with disabilities must become a rule, and that is still lacking. Covered work isn't getting off the ground enough. How is the Secretary of State going to stand up for that? We also call on the Secretary of State to respond to Cedris and Divosa's concrete proposal to establish a coherent system for the so-called bottom of the labour market. A scheme for people with physical or mental disabilities that allows people to develop and integrate into the labour-based day-use, sheltered work, guarantee jobs and regular work. This requires an investment, an accompanying bonus, even after 2020, and not leaving the accompanying budget in 2021. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? We also believe that the distinction between government and business should remain as regards the employment agreement. The government should set an example. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? Once again we point out the signals we get that from the government people with disabilities are placed elsewhere after a temporary contract to prevent permanent employment. 50PLUS must assume that this is not the true line of the rulers and that they condemn, condemn and certainly not support this policy. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The cost-sharing standard. The household care fine, which hits many people very hard, increases the risk of debt and runs counter to the society that promotes "care for each other" and "self-reliance," doesn't it have to be cancelled? Can the Minister explain why the cabinet keeps holding onto this? 50PLUS considers that, following successive austerities in the past, the assessment criteria for granting a WIA benefit should not be further tightened, as the Cabinet wishes. There is no budgetary or other need for it. Further tightening up will put vulnerable people in even more trouble and put more people in poverty. I'd like a response. According to the budget, the government promises a "sufficient macro budget" under the Participation Act, according to objective criteria. We would like to know where the opinion of the Public Administration Council on this macro-budget is not followed by the cabinet and why. The current problem of debt and poverty is an indelible stain on a rich country like ours. Despite our prosperity, the risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased to 17% over the last decade. If we look 4 kilometers further than the Binnenhof in Moerwijk, "streetarm Moerwijk" recently headlined the newspaper "the misery of poverty," which has 1,4 million families in the Netherlands. They have problematic debts or are at great risk of them. But only 200,000 people are known to municipalities and debt relief organisations. It's a Never before have so few people called for debt relief, while the problem is so great. That's not a good sign, is it? How can we make an improvement in this? Mr. Chairman. The ease with which people can get into debt must be stopped. Buying from mail order companies that keep delivering until you're in trouble; that's really got to be different. What can the Secretary of State do in this? 50PLUS calls for regular reporting on the extent and development of poverty and debt issues. At present, it is not yet sufficiently possible to monitor developments properly. There is also a need to explore how people can redeem themselves from debt, other than by periodic monetary repayments. Mr. Chairman. Following recommendation 9 of the Court's report, I call on the Cabinet to promote the development of a clear framework for what appropriate municipal assistance should look like. Does the cabinet want to make a commitment to that? This can help the municipalities to raise the level of debt relief to a higher level. It is good that until 2020 80 million goes to debt prevention and poverty reduction, but 71 million goes to the municipalities through decentralisation payments. What guarantee is there that these funds will actually end up in the fight against poverty and debt? Colleagues have already asked. Can these funds be earmarked? Can the Secretary of State guarantee this? The latter theme is somewhat in line with Mr Bruins' last discussion. We find it really indigestible that a small administrative violation of benevolent beneficiaries at the UWV is being dealt with very hard, while major fraud with WW payments has so far been totally or insufficiently punished. This also applies to assistance fraud in municipalities. False constructions with intermediaries that help Poland, in the latter case, to long paid holidays are a disgrace to us. People are rightly outraged about that. They fear the maintenance of social services. That concern must be taken seriously by this cabinet. The basis and sustainability of social security are, or are, subject to proper enforcement, so that only people who are entitled to social benefits can benefit from it. The Minister has unfolded his plans to tackle enforcement at the UWV. That in itself is good, but can the Minister get out of the way with the resources available? And is he willing to close the leak whatever it takes? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. 50PLUS remains of the opinion that the older worker is in the corner where the blows fall. And he doesn't deserve that. Before my colleague continues with AOW and retirement, I only have to congratulate Mr Renkema on his beautiful maiden speech. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u175	Thank you. I call Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u176	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with Mrs Van Brenn in congratulating Mr Renkema. So you can see what a team we are. How do we proceed with our pension system? Quo vadis? Now that the consultation on a new system has stalled, it is time to look at the real problems of our system and why it is so difficult to agree on solutions, and perhaps to come up with ideas to break the deadlock. The supplementary pension, also called the second pillar in the Netherlands, as a complement to the first pillar, the AOW, is a form of collective savings. Premiums are paid for every year you work. That premium is collectively invested. The pension benefits are realised from the assets thus formed. That's why it's called a capital cover system. The AOW premium is paid by the people who work. It is not used to build the wealth, but is passed on to the pensioners. That's why it's called a pay-as-you-go system. AOW is a public insurance company. You pay premium until you receive an AOW benefit. The aim of the AOW and the supplementary pension is to realize an income after retirement that makes it possible to continue the way of life before the pension. This can only be done if the contributions are sufficient and if pension benefits are adjusted to reflect price developments. The AOW follows the development of the minimum wage through the coupling mechanism and is therefore regularly adapted to inflation. However, for the vast majority of pension funds, pension benefits have not been indexed for ten years. The purchasing power of the supplementary pension has therefore fallen by 15% since 2008. For a number of pension funds, think of the metal.............................................................................................................................................................. This also applies to the rights of those who are still working. These workers' rights also lag behind in purchasing power in the same way. It's just less instantly palpable. Then there's the premiums. Insufficient contributions are paid in both the AOW and supplementary pensions. In the case of the AOW, the benefits are already paid by 35% from the general budget. Employees actually pay only 5% to 10% of the AOW premium instead of the legal 18%, and self-employed people pay up to €25,000 zero point zero AOW premium. This also means that people with a pension pay for their own AOW benefit via indirect fiscalisation. In the case of supplementary pensions, contributions do not cover the cost of the claims raised by them. The premium coverage rate, which shows how much of the total costs are covered by the premium, has been around 75% for ten years. We talked about it with the minister yesterday. This means that each year the rights linked to the payment of the premium will be granted again, but 25% of the costs will have to be covered from the pension fund. In particular, pensioners who no longer have a pension are the victims of this. Does the Minister recognize this? And what's he gonna do? In most cases, part of the contributions paid by employers for the supplementary pension are passed on to employees. This is done by expressing the calculated premium as a percentage of the wage bill. It's called the average premium. In this calculation, everyone pays the same premium for the same rights. That is not entirely fair, because the young people's premium is being invested much longer than that of the elderly. In fact, young people then pay too much and older workers too little. That's the average problem. People are getting older. Life expectancy after reaching the 65th year of life has increased by 5.4 years since the war. In recent years, the increase in life expectancy has narrowed somewhat, but it can be said that when the AOW was introduced, the average age at which a 65-pluser died was 80 years, and that an age of more than 85 years is now reached. The costs associated with the increase in life expectancy are reserved for supplementary pensions from the reserves built up by the returns. But the costs of the AOW are increasing autonomously as a result of this development. Apart from the increase in life expectancy, there is still an ageing population: the increase in the number of people over 65 as a percentage of the total population. That was only 6% of the population in 1900. In 2018, that's almost 19%. It is expected to be 26% by 2040, a percentage already reached in Japan. Internationally, the Netherlands is not greyed out. Italy, France and Greece have a much more ageing population. The Netherlands is one of the very few countries where retirement age is automatically adapted to life expectancy. This has solved the problem of ageing. But retiring later and later is not possible for people with a heavy occupation. They fall out early and reach retirement age from a situation of incapacity for work. That's a real problem. So we have a lot of problems to solve if we want to prepare the Dutch pension system for the future. I have a shopping list. The premiums have to be covered. The adjustment to price developments must be made easier. The average problem has to be solved. A solution must be found for the retirement age for the heavy-duty professions. And there's got to be a solution forzzp'ers. Moreover, the increase in the cost of the AOW due to ageing needs to be anticipated. As far as the content of the discussions on a new system has been leaked, we do not know any more, we can conclude that many of these subjects were on the table, but that no significant progress has actually been made in any area. I'd like a response from the Minister. Does he agree with me that this is actually a shocking picture after so many years of squatting? Indexation only applies to supplementary pension. Social partners have proposed that the supplementary pension be a provision that will be fully dependent on the results of pension funds. Since buffers are no longer required when these securities are dropped, which are still there, these buffers can be used for indexing. But the return with which pension funds are allowed to If they have to determine whether there is sufficient money to meet all obligations, they shall not be increased. It's cast into concrete. Pension funds have to count on an average of 1.5% return, and now even a little less, while in reality they make much higher returns. Now that the government does not allow this calculation efficiency to be affected, I should like to say that the pension funds, which now have no buffer, remain completely empty-handed, because without buffer there is no room for indexation. Many funds have no or hardly any buffers. The four funds ABP, Pension Fund Zorg en Welzijn, PME and PMT, together accounting for 60% of all pensioners, have hardly any buffers for indexing. Pensioners who are members of these pension funds will therefore have to do so for years without indexation and will therefore suffer years of loss of purchasing power as a result of these proposals. In response to questions from me last Friday, the Minister shared my view that the level of coverage under the draft agreement would not change. It is written in black and white: under the new draft agreement, the coverage rate will not change. The calculation rate is clearly the Achilles heel. Mr. Chairman. We can be brief about the premiums. They have not been given any place in the discussion. The AOW contribution remains only for two thirds and the supplementary pension contribution remains far too low to cover the costs. These problems remain unresolved. I'd like a response from the Minister. The second point is the average problem. A solution has been found to the problem of the average premium, but it was not possible to agree on its costs. That doesn't seem unimportant to me, to say it carefully. The solution would be to give young people a higher entitlement to a premium than the elderly. Because the elderly today did not get that higher claim when they were young, while they are now going to get lower claims, these older workers need to be compensated. Costs: 60 to 100 billion, a blank cheque. No solution has been found to cover these costs. I'd like a response from the Minister. I shall come back to that in detail later. These amounts and problems are far too great for that. The third point is the heavy-duty professions. Negotiators agreed that making distinctions between heavy and less heavy professions is in fact not possible, so the trade union movement used a capping of the retirement age: higher than 65, but increasing the number of jobs stopped at 66. On the other hand, the cabinet has offered to temporarily delay the increase. I've always called that, and now again, a cigar out of my own box. Accelerate first and then slow again; the final outcome is the same. In the end, however, this will mean that the retirement age will be 70 and higher in the long term. The cabinet was not even prepared to talk about a partial increase, for example by keeping the ratio between the number of years worked and the number of pension years constant. Forty years of work and twenty years of retirement is two to one. One year of life expectancy added then means six months later AOW. Fourthly, thezzp'ers. At some point there seemed to be a willingness to consider a small proportion of thezzp'ers, namely those who have an hourly wage up to €17, as employees of the employer who hires such azzp'er. But employers are reluctant when it comes to being responsible for the payment of pension contributions in the case of a zzp'er, and zzp'ers with higher rates were not even discussed. I'd like a response from the Minister. My conclusion. It is understandable that the consultation has stalled. All the problems that arise in the pension system are not solved or not sufficiently and incompletely in the proposals that were on the table, as far as we know. I'd like a response from the Minister. If this is the result of seven years of poldering, then the worst must be feared for all kinds of other problems that the Netherlands is facing. If an agreement had been reached on the basis of the concept that has been leaked, there would still have been no indexation for the majority of pensioners and participants in the schemes. If the contributions were still too low, then the average problem would only have been solved theoretically, without corresponding funding, then the heavy-duty professions would only have been helped temporarily and by far the majority would still have been without a pension. We're running out of time. A whole generation of pensioners are threatened to go through life without indexing. I'm part of that, but don't feel sorry for me, while the cost of living keeps rising, especially for senior citizens. Even if an agreement had been reached, it would have taken at least two years before the necessary legislation had been completed, while the solutions were much less difficult than thought. These can be sought within the existing system. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to Niek Jan van Kesteren, Senator, who said last week on the day the agreement broke that it is inexplicable to explain that all over Europe is indexed except in the Netherlands. The Netherlands continues with a harsh approach. He says you should just adjust the calculus rate. With this he finds himself in good company of 50PLUS. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the solutions that I would like to discuss. The supplementary pension contribution is administratively too low. If the calculation of the coverage rate would be based on the same calculation efficiency as the premium, then there is no problem. Moreover, the problem of indexation has also been solved, as coverage rates would increase to levels above 120%. It's too simple, but it didn't happen. Two. The solution is also simple forzzp'ers. Mandatoryzzp'ers to pass on an increase of 10 percentage points on VAT, the proceeds of which must be transferred to a zzp pension fund, which offers pension rights in return. I'd like a response from the Minister. And then the tax self-employed deduction subsidy of €7.280. Our counter-budget said that it should be halved. The other half can be retained under the condition that disability insurance is taken out and that a minimum pension is built up. If we see the huge increase in the number ofzzp'ers that is unique in the world and also in Europe, OECD recently wrote about this, then it is clear that the self-employed deduction is the tax elephant in the Chamber. Nobody wants to talk about it anymore. It's worse than the mortgage interest deduction. But self-employed people just get €7,500 tax-free plus a lot of income deductions, which means that self-employed people up to €25,000 do not pay taxes and contributions, so count out your profits! Mr. Chairman. I'm on a delicate subject now. That is the letter that Minister Koolmees wrote in response to De Nederlandsche Bank's letter on the calculation rate for softer claims. I now turn to the answers given by the Minister to my questions last Thursday. He needed seven pages. Anyone who needs a lot of words usually talks a little bit about it. The Minister took up the position of President Klaas Knot as set out in his letter of 19 September to the Minister. The questions and answers centred on the practice of the financial review framework, which I sometimes refer to as "financial future ruined', the way in which the coverage rate is calculated, the function of the buffers, the objective of the pension fund, the position of future participants and, finally, it is therefore a whole range of scientists' views, at least some, on the method of calculating the coverage rate. I would point out that past ministers have always said in the past that the risk-free interest rate was necessary because of the certainty and that there would be another interest rate if that security were to lapse. Mrs Van Vollenhoven of De Nederlandsche Bank told us this in the spring. In a session we had with Klaas Knot in the spring, he also answered a question of mine in plain terms: if the security lapses, the calculation rate can rise. He took that back, by the way. I now turn to the letter from the Minister and the letter from the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. In his reply to me, Minister Koolmees says: "Someone who transfers €1,000 from a risk-free savings account today, for example, listen carefully! As a result, the risky investment account has not immediately become richer." I wish! That's right, I say, but not relevant. The value of the invested assets, the assets of a pension fund, are at any time what they are. That's not affected by the composition of the power. However, the composition of the assets does affect the future value of that assets. It is not a question of the size of the assets as such but of the comparison of two cash flows: the expected income flow and the expected outgoing cash flow of the pension fund in the longer term. In order to calculate an instantaneous level of coverage, both cash flows must be made in cash. In a consistent calculation of the coverage rate, the same discount rate shall be used for both cash flows. In the event of a risk-free nature of the pension contract, this is the free, risk-free interest rate. Then a simulation of the ability is made as if the whole is made up of risk-free capital titles. The risk-free interest rate is then the correct discount rate. You heard me right! However, in the situation provided for in the draft pension agreement, which places all the risks on the members and on pensioners, it is right to take into account the actual composition of the assets. The relevant discount rate shall then be the expected return in any form. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. President Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank and in his wake the minister now claim that the transfer of all risks to the participants may have its impact in abolishing the buffers. If buffers are intended to provide some certainty that the best setback should not be reduced at the first, it would be advisable to maintain the buffers, albeit not with the current high size. In any case, it is unclear why, in the case of an adapted system, the discount rate cannot be adjusted and the buffers can be adjusted. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister writes the following about the rate of calculation: the result of the increase in the rate of calculation above risk-free interest rates would be "we have heard this already twenty times in this house since I walked around in the Senate and the House of Representatives that more indexing is being paid directly to pensioners, which has never happened, which inevitably leaves less of the available collective fund assets for younger participants and fellow citizens, and now it is also a very nice future entrants to a fund. They are people who are not yet born or at least still in school. This raises two questions. Why would the indexing of claims be different from indexing of pension benefits? When indexing claims, total liabilities are immediately adjusted, with no distinction being made between beneficiaries and members. Younger participants are just as much the victims of the years of lack of indexing as pensioners. I'd like a response from the Minister. What rights do future entrants have, people who are not members of the fund and who have not yet paid contributions, if they have not yet been laid down in liabilities of a pension fund? Here, the obligations of a pension fund are artificially extended by non-existent obligations of participants who have not yet joined the labour market. The system of supplementary pension funds is based on the idea that each pays a contribution in exchange for a benefit claim. But without a premium, there are no claims. I'd like an answer from the Minister. An expected return is included in the premium, which makes it cost-effective. This is separate from the current practice of non-cost-covering premiums, a situation which the Minister, fortunately, also clearly, considers undesirable. I have the following question to the Minister. Is it not the case that a discount rate which is chosen too high is at the expense of younger participants, but that a discount rate that is chosen too low is at the expense of pensioners and older participants? I hope the Minister listens, too. I see him nodding. Like me, he does two things at once. Is not a discount rate, which has been very well exceeded for years by actual yields, a discount rate that has been set too low? Does the Minister not see the consequences of an ever lower discount rate, for example by continuing to reduce the UFR, which started with 4.2 and is now halfway through? Does the Minister know that this reduction has been absorbed by pension funds at the expense of the assets most of which are made up of the contributions of pensioners and older participants? Can the Minister explain why his concerns about the position of younger participants have priority over his concerns about pensioners? In his reply, the Minister stated that there was no need for the low level of premium coverage which would mean that there could no longer be a balanced representation of interests. The Minister suggests that this problem will be resolved in the new system. But that raises the following questions. Now that the Minister is so clearly holding on to the risk-free discount rate, is he prepared to force employers to apply this interest rate to the premium calculation and not to rely on expected return? Is the Minister aware that in this case the premiums should be increased by 30% and that this costs Dutch society 10 billion annually, for five years now? A 50 billion-dollar account that has given a huge cover dent. It'll take place. How is it possible? Now that discussions on a new pension system have stalled, the question arises as to whether the Minister is responsible for putting an end to the existing situation in which pensioners and sleepers contribute to the financing of new claims. What does the Minister intend to do about it, and very quickly? I would like to make two general comments on the answers to my questions last week. I believe that these answers show that the Minister has been very embroiled. This clearly highlights the failure of the negotiations. In my opinion, the references in the Minister's letter are very selective, partly not relevant and partly bizarre. The Joshua Rauh he quoted discusses the valuation of rights under the American public pension system. They are indeed guaranteed by the state. That is very different than in the Netherlands, and yet they should be appreciated the same. "Get a life," would say Kees van Dijkhuizen of ABN AMRO. It is noteworthy that the Minister is in favour of contributions on the basis of risk-free interest rates. This is consistent, but makes the system directly unaffordable, because then the premiums go up by 10 billion, a substantial part of which also has to be paid by the ABP and thus by the employer, the State. Please respond from the Minister. What surprises me most is the twist that is now being given to the function of the buffer. This is never meant to be as it is now claimed. The security's in the discount rate. The buffer has to do with the investment profile. If you invest everything in AAA, you don't need a buffer according to the financial review framework. If you invest it more in business value, you need to keep a buffer to ensure that the investments achieve a risk-free result for 97.5%. The more risk you take, the higher the buffer. It is therefore not the buffer as such, but the buffer investment profile combination. That is why the Minister's answer does not make any sense at all. What is the reason for keeping a buffer for 100% investment in AA bonds? There isn't one. In that case, a buffer does not lead to more certainty either. This is really crooked language. Please respond from the Minister. I repeat the question whether the cabinet is prepared to give the Parameters Commission an additional mandate to advise on the position of De Nederlandsche Bank. In other words, can there be another calculation rate for softer claims? Knot and Koolmies say: we don't want to think about that. It's and it's gonna stay the way we think it should be. We have the best system. Can we go over it ourselves, please? The Minister should not rely on foreign scientists with a different system and not unilaterally on Jacobs and Van Wijnbergen. What does the Minister think, for example, that I have missed out on the views of Frijns, Teulings and Sluimers on the interest rate? They agree with 50PLUS and therefore the Minister is wisely ignoring them. Mr. Chairman. I come to the average premium, the blank cheque of 60 to 100 billion as a result of the abolition of the average problem. I have a number of urgent questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u177	I would like to remind you that you have one minute, 15 minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u178	But there's still time for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u179	That's where it comes from. You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u180	I know. I can count and count; I believe that is well known. Mr. Chairman. On the blank cheque of 60 to 100 billion, I have the following questions. If the abolition of the average system is continued, participants will need concrete and direct funding to prevent groups of participants from being disproportionately affected and the generation of bad luck and happiness will arise. Do you share that? Were you prepared to make firm agreements with employers and employees about this compensation? Were you prepared to legally require the granting of compensation? Do you share the view of the trade unions that abolition of the average system might be financed macroeconomically, but that in particular cases this can only be at the expense of the indexing perspective of participants? This is the case if it is not possible to obtain concrete and direct compensation in the financing plans between decentralised parties. Have you been willing in particular situations other than with fiscal space in time to leave the government as a backup guarantor of the compensation? Here's what I'm seeing. There is no mention of compensation in the documents sent to the Chamber on 26 November, whereas it is going to cost 60 to 100 billion. Yesterday I tabled a motion on this subject, on which the Minister said that pensioners should simply go along with that blank cheque. We'll get back to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the calculus rate. Do you give the undertaking that this cabinet will assume its social responsibility to adapt the strict accounting rules in line with many calls from the trade union movement in the short term? In any case, this should prevent pension reductions in many cases, in the case of funds with a coverage of between 100% and 104%, and provide a more indexing perspective in the short term. Do you share that, independently of an agreement, the Cabinet can ensure that funds with a coverage rate of between 100% and 104.3% do not have to be cut? That was apparently Prime Minister Rutte's offer, but that does not apply to funds with coverage below 100%. And those are the worst cases. What measures are you going to take now that the pension consultation has failed? Are you prepared to adapt the strict accounting rules that pension funds now have to apply on the basis of current laws and regulations? I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to go into detail in a comprehensive letter on all the specific questions mentioned above, in particular the solution of the whole redistribution of 60 to 100 billion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the purchasing power. Are we only improving competitiveness in order to get everyone into work in flexible jobs around the minimum wage and without a pension, or is the strengthening of the economy and competitiveness also meant to end up doing something very good for the broad middle class and the groups that are underneath? However, the social minimum, the combination of a complex set of generic and municipal minimum schemes, appears to be far too tight to make ends meet. We've pointed out the Nibud figures before. Jan Nagel formulated this in the First Chamber as follows: "What strikes us is the magic with numbers and a weather forecast which according to the patent of the Cabinets-Rutte are brought out cheering on Princess Day and later adjusted downwards without leaving a muscle." Mr. Chairman. Finally, the elderly and young people are not at the table of the pension debate but are on the menu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u182	I'd be brief, but now I'm getting very few minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u183	I'm getting that was your wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u184	I thought seven, but I'm trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u185	Yeah, seven minutes in total. Then tomorrow you'll have two more for your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u186	We'll see. Mr. Chairman. It's a big deal if you get to reach the age of 100 together. I'd say Mr. Van Rooijen is still a young man. Only a few people have been given it, and that is not self-evident for organisations either. It is therefore special that on behalf of the SGP, I should like to congratulate the social ministers on achieving the 100th anniversary of their ministry. We celebrated the founding of our party in the spring. This autumn I think it is time to consider the creation of the Ministry of Labour in September 1918, together with the twin brother of Education. Nevertheless, congratulations on this milestone. When reading the decision of the Ministry of Labour, it is clear how many tasks of the Ministry have actually remained unchanged. Let me give you a few examples. "against the excessive dangerous work of young people and women"........................................................................................................................................................................................................ "Insurers' insurance against the financial consequences of accidents" and unemployment insurance and employment. If you look at the old photos in the UWVMagazine, you can also see that very early support for disabled workers was done, for example blind dictatafonists, who were allowed to work very early in factories. The history of this ministry therefore inspires us to address a number of issues in this budget debate. Perhaps in abundance, I am not going to talk about the pension system and the change in labour law. We were able to debate the pension in detail last night and soon we hope to discuss the Labour Market in Balance Act in detail. But now for the subjects. The first is self-employed without any staff. Protection of vulnerable workers is high on the agenda of your ministry from the start. That theme is still extremely topical with the discussion about thezzp'ers. For the time being, the cabinet is not going to work with compulsory insurance, and that is not what the SGP is grieving about. But doing nothing is not an option either as far as we are concerned. There is unfair competition on tariffs, which ultimately means thatzzp'ers can only get directly into the assistance. The SGP therefore considers thatzzp'ers should be obliged to create a buffer as a basic own provision for incapacity for work. Our question is whether the Minister would like to present this variant to the committee which will focus on this issue. Then there's support for the disabled. The SGP appreciates the State Secretary's commitment to increasing job opportunities for disabled people. The action plan shows that there have been consultations with all kinds of bodies, from companies and clients to municipalities and the UWV. However, education is the great absentee. Why is our question, because special education and practical education play a very important role. I also hear criticism of the lack of information. For example, schools for special education do not appear to be directly informed about regulatory changes. It's a hell of a tour for them to get the rules straight. In fact, I have read that there are no deliberate or 'consciously not' changes to the wage cost benefit, which have been implemented from 1 October, just how you interpret it, but I would like to hear that. How do we explain this and what are we going to improve? Our question is therefore whether the Secretary of State would like to communicate directly to schools. If she does, I'd like to hear how that happens. The Action Plan also proposes the introduction of a national model for wage valuation. Well, that makes sense, but maybe we should stick one more spade deeper. I hear from practice that almost €1,000 must now be paid for a wage valuation in order to achieve a result that hardly deviates from what was previously achieved without a model. Would the Secretary of State like to examine whether a formal wage value model has sufficient added value? The SGP prefers to put that €1,000 into people rather than in a calculation. In receiving wage costs benefit, previous secondary jobs of pupils appear to be causing problems. I read in response to our request that the target group statement for these young people be abolished. Can we therefore assume that the problem of side jobs is gone? The SGP believes that the cabinet is very accommodating when it comes to anchoring the lowest wage scales in collective agreements. We are running out for a year now, while the result is still insufficient. Can we assume that this is really the last chance and that otherwise the legal law will enter into force immediately after the investigation in 2020? Mr. Chairman. Then there's debt and welfare. Court bailiffs play an important role in the issue of fair and social debt collection. However, with all the attention paid to debtors and creditors, you would easily forget about the bailiff. The SGP notes that there is no separate collective agreement for bailiffs. In practice, it appears that this can lead to a situation in which bailiffs can get in the way of the proper performance of their duties. I understand, of course, that it is not primarily the State Secretary's intention to conclude a collective agreement, but would she be prepared to consider this issue in the professional group? The previous cabinet had the ambition to significantly improve services to citizens and businesses. Recent studies by Deloitte show that this has not been achieved for self-employed entrepreneurs entering the assistance. Information is very flawed and sometimes even missing. Only in a third of the municipalities it is possible to apply for a social assistance allowance digitally. What are the objectives of the Secretary of State to deal with this problem? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the issue that concerns me most and which I would like most to achieve today's result: mourning leave. I have argued in favour of this before, but I would like to draw attention once again to that issue, which has only recently surfaced in the last 100 years of this ministry and which, as far as we are concerned, is still underexposed: palliative leave and leave for mourning. First of all, it is very positive that the Ministry itself had this investigated in 2011. Really a compliment. This study shows that on average there are five months of absenteeism when employees lose someone in the immediate vicinity. This may mean, for example, that workers fall into the disease law wrongly. The SGP sees that this can be improved both for employers and for employees. We therefore call for a legal right to leave. You can compare it to parental leave. Unfortunately, however, the bill did not show a majority in favour of a paid mourning leave. Our question is whether the Minister is prepared to explore a right to leave. When it comes to palliative leave, there is a similar demand from the National Expertise Center Die. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at the end. A 100-year-old has generally gained a lot of wisdom, so I also expect very nice, good and wise answers. But I know that a 100-year-old can also ask difficult questions that can't all be answered. So, yeah, we'll see the results come up tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u187	Thank you. Finally, Mr Kuzu van DENK has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u188	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Renkema van GroenLinks on his contribution. It's a wonderful argument about equality of opportunity. I believe that this is an important issue that can be addressed in the future in the Chamber when it comes to social affairs and employment. Mr. Chairman. The thread of my story is: Wouter should not become a Louis. He can and must learn from the mistakes of his predecessor. D66 shouldn't be the new PvdA. And yet, if the D66 colleagues continue like this, they will be the new PvdA. In order to ensure that D66 does not become the new PvdA, the DENK Group wants to give the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment a number of tips. Tip one: start thanking the migrant workers tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u189	You'll be invited. Mr Gijs van Dijk. From the PvdA, let me add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u190	I know Mr Kuzu is from DENK, but I'm just thinking about where he started a few years ago. Which party was that exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u191	That was the PvdA. I don't think anyone's noticed how that turned out. That is why I would like to give some tips to the Minister for Social Affairs not to make the mistake made by the PvdA in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u192	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u193	Then I'll start with tip one. I'd like to ask the Minister if he'd like to start thanking the migrant workers tomorrow. In 2016, migrant workers contributed 11 billion euros to the Dutch economy. I'm sure that share has grown enormously. The prosperity, also mentioned by the VVD, is made possible by 370,000 newcomers from Poland, Bulgaria and Romania. And without all the ghost stories that are being told us by the Christian Union, as we saw today, about displacement into the labour market. This is contradicted by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and by the Central Planning Bureau. If we want to maintain our prosperity, we will have to embrace the migrant workers instead of portraying them as a danger. This was done by the PVV with the Polenmeldpunt and today the ChristianUnion spoke about a new multicultural drama. That is why I would also like to express my thanks on behalf of DENK. I say: dziękuję, blagodarya, mulțumesc. I would also like to thank all those people who have come to the Netherlands from different parts of the world in a recent or distant past. People with a Turkish, Moroccan, Surinamese, Antillean, Afghan, Pakistani, Bosnian background or any of those other different backgrounds. What diversity, what strength and added value for the Netherlands! All these people are fully and equally part of Dutch society. Despite the image, even the stigma, that some tried to stick to these groups, these are also hardworking Dutch. Anyone who disputes this should take a look at the Westlandse greenhouses, the Rotterdam harbour, the security department of Schiphol or the meat processing companies in Limburg. That's why I want to thank those hardworking Dutch. I say, "Shukraan, teşekkürler, tangi, dankie." I could say thank you in our multicultural society in 200 different languages, but I do not have enough time to do so. So the message is: if we want to maintain our level of prosperity and continue to grow economically, we have to get started with the housing of these groups. I would therefore like to ask the Minister specifically whether he is prepared to address the housing problem for migrant workers himself. Last year, the Flexwonen Expertise Centre estimated that there is a shortage of 100,000 residences that meet the minimum requirements. Does the Minister feel that municipalities or labour market regions are working to link the challenges of economic growth and housing? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the diversity that our country is rich does not always come to its own due to prevailing prejudices or harsh exclusion. That is why two tips for these leaders: combat labour market discrimination not only in words, but also in action. Labour market discrimination has been denied for decades: in the Netherlands it does not happen, claimed the established political order for years. They're incidents, they were said. Research after research showed that it did. It was already demonstrated in 1981 in the report with the telling title Can it be a foreigner? However, politics remained stabbed in the denial phase. It was ostrich politics: stick your head in the sand and pretend it doesn't exist. Fundamental injustice has been tolerated for years. Luckily, there's a cover now. Secretary of State Van Ark said that discrimination in the labour market destroys dreams of the future, causes ambition to end in frustration and that talent is wasted. Those are fine words, for which I sincerely congratulate you. One of the measures is that the Inspection SZW will fine discriminatory companies. However, we wonder whether and how this action programme on labour market discrimination is sufficient. Your predecessor, Minister Asscher, did not want to award any more public contracts to companies that discriminate. Those were harsh words that we were enthusiastic about at first. But do you know how many companies have affected this in recent years? Zero companies. You understand that our enthusiasm disappeared like snow before the sun. That is what we are now going to ask ourselves about the power language of the Secretary of State. Will it be the same with the fines that the Inspection SZW is entitled to issue, that we will soon see that companies are not or barely able to contest this fine or successfully because there is no evidence, as is often the case in criminal law? That's what we're worried about. That's why I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Because we are in the budget: how much money is the Secretary of State actually going to spend to combat labour market discrimination? In the meantime, I have learned that you should not believe a ruler in the words he or she says, but in his or her budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u194	I believe that Mr Kuzu, D66 and many other parties are on the same side of the rope here. I can give you one answer, but I'll make a request right away. We have seen that there is a lot of money for the Social Affairs Inspectorate, including, if I may say so, 1.5 million of capacity every year, just people, plus money for information. I think that is good news, and I hope Mr Kuzu will do the same. I totally agree with him: put your money where your mouth is. There is an amendment, for my part, to put temporarily, because the problem is so big, an extra shot of whipped cream on top of that cake. I also hope for Mr Kuzu's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u195	Mr Van Weyenberg knows DENK and knows me. I will wholeheartedly support his amendment. I also think it is commendable that this coalition has made extra money for this. Probably coming from D66. But I also really wonder whether the measures set out in the action programme are actually going to lead to the result that I believe we both want. Congratulations on the commitment and resources that have been made available. Now deliver and convert into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u196	I totally agree with Mr Kuzu. The practice is that this is very difficult. That's what it turns out to be in criminal law. This will also be for inspection. I am also pleased that they are doing a great deal of information, because there is also a great deal of unconscious discrimination. The ESC has previously spoken fine words about what to do about it. With him, we'll keep the finger on the wrist. Wanting to do good is a necessary condition, but ultimately it is about the result. I am also going to look at every idea Mr Kuzu has of how we can strengthen that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u197	I also believe that we agree on this, but we should not simply focus on awareness. I totally agree with you that we still have a huge blow to make, in terms of the part of awareness. But we must also achieve concrete actions. I think D66 and DENK can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u198	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u199	I would also like to ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to investigate the economic damage caused by labour market discrimination. In fact, we have not been able to find any quantitative studies that identify the damage to discrimination. It could just be a lot of money. We do not have the luxury to tolerate any kind of loss of talent in the labour market. Then tip three: be a worthy leader on Social Affairs and fight poverty for real. The economy is doing well, we hear, but what does that mean for the 400,000 children living below the poverty line and the more than 1 million people struggling to make ends meet at the end of the month? Are these numbers of people who can't or barely survive going down drastically now? The cabinet would ensure that there is a concrete reduction target, but it does not seem to be there yet. I would like a response from the Secretary of State as to whether she is prepared to formulate this reduction target as soon as possible and when we can expect it as a Chamber. Does she follow the concrete suggestions of Save The Children and Defence for Children on how to ensure that such an objective is actually achieved and is also effective? I'd like a response. In practice, the millions made available by the Cabinet for children in poverty do not appear to reach children in full. What can and will the Secretary of State do about this? Does she follow the suggestion of Save the Children and Defence for Children, namely: ear tag the money? That's what DENK has been advocating for years. Take measures now that the evaluation shows that half of the municipalities have not actually accounted for and 27% have not been spent on the intended purpose. So again: ear tag the money that DENK has been advocating for years. I'd like a response. Why does the Secretary of State still not want to recognise these funds, so that the money really ends up with the children who need it and who do not disappear into the general resources of the municipality and thus ends up with the abolition of taxes such as the dog tax or the maintenance of gardens in neighbourhoods where there is hardly any child poverty? Mr. Chairman. Tip four for the rulers: pay attention to all those who have contributed to the construction of our country. The degree of civilisation is reflected in how you deal with the people who built our country. A rapidly growing group of migrant elderly people lives disproportionately often in poverty in the Netherlands. They usually get an incomplete AOW because they don't live in the Netherlands all their lives. Even with the supplement from the assistance, they lack monthly money for the necessary cost of living. Among other things, the SCP poverty monitor and the Network of Organisations of Older Migrants also make a cry for help. That is why we have a specific proposal. We call for people with an incomplete AOW to be able to live with their carers without the cost-sharing standard being applied to them. This is in line with government policy, which is committed to living longer at home and combating loneliness. It is now the case that older migrants are discouraged from living with children. Due to the cost sharing standard, this leads to an income reduction of sometimes more than €300 per month. I'd like a response from the rulers. Mr. Chairman. Tip five: Be legal at all times. Then I'll join the asset test abroad, so your assistance will be stopped because you have or would have a cottage abroad. A large number of municipalities have been approached by the judge because they carry out the power test unlawfully. Almelo, Eindhoven and Tilburg stopped various benefits, but the Central Board of Appeal destroyed those decisions and monthed the municipalities to refund the benefits. The municipalities have violated the prohibition of discrimination, was the ruling of the Central Appeals Council. Lawyer Kücükünal, who litigated against Tilburg and Almelo, also thinks that the Limburg cities are being flagged back by the judge. They give privacy-sensitive information to businesses and have them do research abroad. And then only in Turkey because that company specializes in it, says the lawyer. According to him, all other nationalities with unjustified benefits remain out of the question and thus throw away all the principles of the right. The hard approach often also works counter-productively. This is evident from a new study by the University of Groningen. That is only the first study that also took the perspective of the people with benefits. Due to a repressive approach, some are actually going to behave more like fraud, the chief researcher concludes professor of legal sociology Marc Hertogh. I understand that we are about to have a wide-ranging debate on this issue. I'd like to ask the Minister to take an advance in advance. Or is it the Secretary of State? Then I'll ask the Secretary of State if she can take an advance. Is it going to act legally or is it going to join the stigma that some political parties consciously put down? Mr. Chairman. The last tip: be a Minister of Social Affairs for the people and not for the systems. Then I come to the cabinet's new plans for dismissal law. That doesn't cheer us up from DENK. The Work and Security Act entered into force on 1 July 2015 and one of the unexpected consequences of this law was that the dismissal protection was strengthened. Judges used to turn back a discharge. Also, dismissal should no longer be a sum of small facts that were listed in a file. A dismissal ground must stand on its own and be serious enough for dismissal. Let me then be generous towards Mr Gijs van Dijk and say that this is one of the few things Wouter may look like Louis. But what does the Minister do now? He's turning the clock back. He's taking everything. He takes away the single fact construction and returns the cumulation rule. This means that employers can build up a file of small facts in order to be able to fire people. The cabinet also contributes to more administrative burdens, something the VVD could never agree to. Right? So the time of GDR-like file-building is coming back. We already hear a lot of stories about terror and fear in the workplace. This is only gonna get worse. For the ordinary, normal Dutch, DENK wants the protection against dismissal to be maintained. It's also an illogical deal. Ten million Dutch workers are collectively deprived of their protection against dismissal. A few hundred thousand employers might be better off. In short, on balance, this is a huge social loss. The DENK Group therefore wants this measure to be subject to a social cost-benefit analysis by the Central Planning Bureau. Is the Minister prepared to do so? I'd like a response from the Minister. What the last group of DENK wants is that the transition fee should not be reduced further. But what does the Cabinet do? The transition fee will be reduced again. After the tenth year of work, not half but a third month's salary is built up. This is the third hollowing out of the canton justice formula after 2008 and 2015. Mr. Chairman. The fluctuating flexibility of the labour market. The cabinet is now making a number of proposals that will accelerate this flexibility even further. The time limit by which employees are kept on a leash before they get a permanent contract goes back from two to three years. Here too, the clock is reversed. There will be a five-month probationary period in certain cases. The six-month interval between contracts to get out of the chain clause goes back to three months. These measures will ensure further flexibilisation and erosion of permanent jobs. This is bad for consumer confidence and therefore for the economy. Can the Minister reconsider these disruptive proposals? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u200	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u201	I thank the rulers for coming to the Chamber. We will see you again tomorrow morning at 10.15 a.m. for your reply. I'll suspend for a few moments. Then we will quickly continue with the VAO International Corporate Social Responsibility.
