ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u1	I'm opening the meeting. The next item is the debate on the proposal 33980 on improving supervision, detection, compliance and enforcement in healthcare. I welcome the Minister of Medical Care to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. If this amendment is adopted, how does the Minister intend to implement the Klever amendment? Who decides when the medical secret will have to be violated? Is that what the medical counselor decides? Who decides whether the violation of patient confidentiality will be medically substantive or technically substantive? Contracted healthcare providers should at present give up all medical secrets, based on a ministerial arrangement. The proposed legislative amendment should therefore make it easier for individuals, uncontracted healthcare providers and pgb holders in particular to be better monitored, because, if this legislative amendment is adopted, all healthcare providers will have to give up the medical secret. Now uncontracted care providers are excluded, because the private person paid the bill to the health care provider and submitted the health care provider's note to the health care provider. There are still problems in specialist care, in the private sector, in the dentist and in the pgb sector, and there are still significant frauds which cannot be controlled properly. On the basis of the Health Insurance Scheme, contracted healthcare providers should disclose the medical secret in the event of fraud or physical on-site checks or physical checks. There appears to have been 2,500 on-site checks. The question is: how often does it happen from the insurers' offices that medical information is requested at physical checks? Is the medical secret frequently violated? Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how often it is now possible for the health insurance company, through his medical adviser, to actually look into the medical file and what that has resulted in. In that case, does the health care provider actually inform the patient of this every time? Mr. Chairman. During the verification of the so-called co-operation of the Health Insurance Act, the Zvw, and the Long-Term Care Act, the Wlz, there are declarations of pharmacy, home care, care, primary care, general care, including chain care, oral care, first-line therapy and non-personal aid care in good faith. These are then rejected and sent back to the health insurance provider to surprise those involved. It is not fraud because it does not happen consciously. Its cause is due to the so-called coincidence. The control will check whether the patient, the insured person, is in the Wlz or is covered by the Wvw. Often things go wrong there, because the caregiver is not always aware of this. These are patients, insured persons, who are treated by the so-called Wlz institutions, without this situation being passed on to the healthcare providers concerned. As a result, these healthcare providers wrongly declare to the health insurance provider and receive a disapproval of their declaration. For example, in order to avoid incorrect declarations and significantly time-consuming and costly ex post bureaucratic actions, this information could be shared through the VECOZO. For viewers: that is an internet communication system for safe communication in care. Privacy legislation blocks such a process and does not provide for the change of law. A question to the Minister: Can the problem of overlapping, not hindered by possible privacy laws, be solved simply? And can the Minister state, or perhaps even commit, that he is going to solve this problem for these institutions and organizations? If not, why not? If so, how can the Minister solve this problem for healthcare providers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u4	Mr. Van Kesteren, do I hear you now asking the Minister to make it a little easier by arranging everything through VECOZO and transmitting all the information? If you did, wouldn't that have serious consequences for medical confidentiality? Then you just let it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u5	I don't think so. You must imagine that VECOZO is a tool to prevent the declaration from going to the wrong place. The PVV believes that the health care provider should be aware of where he can lodge his declaration. This is not at the expense of medical professional secrecy, because it is a purely administrative act which is now absent. Now it creates a great deal of additional administrative burden for healthcare providers, which leads to higher costs, which ultimately end up with the patient, the insured. Hence the plea. On the one hand, care providers have a patient interest. On the other hand, health insurance companies have a cost-control role to play. In the current system, the insurer's interest is best served. Indeed, the benefits of detected fraud flow back to the health insurance provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u6	With a formulation as on one side/on the other, I understand that you will come to the healthcare provider and the health insurance provider. But does Mr Van Kesteren also have an eye for the third interest, namely that of the patient? That seems to me to be the first priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u7	The patient interest is also the starting point of my speech. It turns out that a lot of money flows back to the health insurance companies. We think it is wrong that a patient, who has not asked for fraud, is confronted with higher health care every year, while the fraud is committed by healthcare providers, who receive the financial benefits of the outcome of that investigation. That is our starting point. We would like to support that, and that is what I am talking about. The Minister has indicated that the patient's secret has been secured by the medical disciplinary college to which the doctor or medical adviser is subject. He also has a medical confidentiality. That's fragile, I agree with you. On the other hand, if you assume that the fraud is mainly committed by healthcare providers, we believe that the patient, the insured person, should not be financially affected by all these fraud cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u8	I had not mentioned medical professional secrecy myself, but I am glad that Mr Van Kesteren is bringing it up as a concern on the part of the patient. I would be sorry if you limited the patient's interest to a financial interest and then indirectly. I would like to highlight the other side, but we will get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u9	Hence my question as to how often the medical record is understood, to what extent it is done and in what situations. That is what we are looking forward to. I'm moving on. Fraud cases to which the patient, the insured person, has had no part whatsoever and for which his medical record has even been checked and the medical secret has been broken, are in no way financially compensated. The PVV believes that the care premium can be reduced and can even be abolished as a whole if the fraud is effectively combated. I am talking about the risk, but it is also financed from other sources. This premium can in any case be significantly reduced and it does not need to be increased every year if so many fraud cases can be resolved. Although more and more fraud money has been recovered by insurers in recent years, it is not reflected in the premium. The profits obtained in the fight against fraud should actually be reflected in that. It would be very reasonable if the benefits of investigating fraud by healthcare providers were somehow reflected in the wallet of the patient concerned, the insured person. It did not ask for the fraud of the healthcare provider. Maybe I forgot something? No, I think the story has come across nicely. In any case, we must prevent unlawful and fraudulent behaviour. It's about public money and that's why the PVV thinks you should tackle fraud. That's also in the patient's best interest. Every year it is said that care becomes unaffordable and the premiums are increased every year. In this sense, we consider it very legitimate to combat fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u10	Mr. Van Kesteren, following on from my first question and Mr. Ganzevoort's question. In your argument, medical professional secrecy is subordinated to a financial transaction between health insurer and healthcare provider. The draft law before us deals with the breach of medical professional secrecy for the benefit of physical control in the context of the fight against fraud. I haven't really made it clear what you think. I miss the choice the PVV makes in this. What is more important now: medical professional secrecy or physical control in the context of the fight against fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u11	It's both. Only we're trying to get a good balance in that. A previously adopted amendment by Mrs Klever in the Lower House provides for a patient to be informed within three months by the health insurance provider about the detailed examination of the medical file. This means that the patient file and the patient secret are not handled lightly. That is why that amendment was tabled at the time. We also wonder whether the medical confidentiality of the insurer's medical advisor and the fact that this person is subject to medical discipline are sufficient to ensure the privacy of the patient or the insured person. That is my question to the Minister: can he take away some of the concerns on this point? We are concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u12	The fact that the patient is asked afterwards has been negotiated by the PVV in the Lower House. After three months, the patient gets a message saying that his medical records have been accessed. That is disappointing in our view. Why wouldn't you ask me first? Why are we not going to report that we did something afterwards, when we could actually ask the patient beforehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u13	We think it is important to combat fraud. It's about billions a year. The care becomes more expensive every year. From the cabinet it is said to be priceless. Why would you leave the bill with the patient all the time? We need to deal with medical confidentiality, but we believe it is important that the cost of care, especially for ordinary people, does not increase every year. The patient needs to see some of it. It's hard to find a balance in that. We also ask the Minister to remove this concern and to ensure that patient secrecy is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u14	Mr. Don, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u15	It's not about billions, it's about 76 million. Oh, no, it's about 27 million. That'll be an understatement. We don't know exactly how big the fraud is. The total budget in somatic care is 42 billion, I believe. But it's not about billions. I am simply disappointed by the PVV that they do not find the patient a full-fledged person in the fight against fraud and that they do not, in advance, argue in favour of involving the patient in the fight against fraud. Ask the patient! You are always the party that says: we go for the individual voice of the citizen, we go for the person who matters. That person must be able to express his opinion. But in the fight against fraud, you say: we'll check it a little afterwards and then we'll report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u16	Well, the SP now suggests that fraud is mainly committed by patients. The research focuses mainly on the healthcare provider. That is why my question is: how often is the patient file actually looked at? That's what we'd like to know. I am disappointed by the fact that patients, the majority of patients who are not subject to access to the patient file, face higher health care every year. Isn't that what the SP is all about? It is a balance in which we weigh up. That doesn't mean we don't pay any more attention to the other. These are very clear the questions I have asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u17	Does Mr Van Kesteren think that if people hear after three months that their medical records have been looked at, confidence in the insurer will be increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u18	The Klever amendment provides that access to the patient file will not be handled lightly. That is a stick behind the door to be very careful about it and only to choose it in extreme need. That is what the amendment is for. I think it is a very good amendment to ensure patient confidentiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u19	That's not my question. It is very good that there is a fraud protocol and that eight steps have to be taken by the health insurance provider. It's got the security deposit in it. But let's say they're looking into the medical records. When should the insured person know about the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u20	The insured person won't know. It is a medical adviser who is subject to medical discipline and also has a medical confidentiality. This has been shared in many previous discussions, including in the committees. An insurer cannot access that information because that medical adviser has a medical confidentiality. The Minister said that's a bail. It is fragile, I know, and that is why we are asking the Minister to take away our concern about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u21	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u22	I get that. An amendment was adopted in the Lower House stating that the insurer would preferably report to the insured person within three months that his file had been checked. If necessary in the context of the fraud investigation, it may take longer. My question to the PVV is: what does the PVV think of that three-month period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u23	That three-month period is... Look, the investigation needs to be done. In order to be able to fully inform the patient thereafter, that three-month period was chosen. An investigation takes a while. It's not a matter of looking into the file and then immediately informing the insured person. It's gonna take time. Hence the three-month period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u24	Have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u25	I was finished with my speech and I am looking forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u27	Thank you, Mr President. In this last week of the year, we start with a legislative proposal which seems to have little urgency. More than two years ago it was adopted by the then Lower House. After the First Chamber asked its first written questions in 2016, it immediately stopped because, according to the Minister at the time, it took more time to ask external parties. Of course, after that there was a change of government, but even with a minister of the same signature at the buttons it took more than a year and a half before the answers came. Moreover, the answers do not show that there had been such a complicated question. The questions of this Chamber were almost Chamberwide the same and also in the second round we see the same problems in the ground. It is about necessity, effectiveness, proportionality and privacy violations. Today we face the task of weighing up the bill and the answers. On behalf of my group, I think it is right, also in response to Mr Van Kesteren's contribution, to ask what perspective we are actually looking at these questions from. Then it is striking that this bill, to our regret at least, is not first and foremost about the quality of care and the relationship of care, but only about the legality of compensation. Certainly, that is an important subject, but please let us consider it as a second-order issue. Eventually, it's about the care as such. This brings me to the question of proportionality. The first question is how big the problem really is. Well, it's not about Mr Van Kesteren's billions, nor what the minister says, that he just doesn't know, because that's a little evasive. We do know that the health insurance companies themselves say how much fraud has been detected. That is not all, but at least it is what has been found and we know that part. In 2015, around 11 million, in 2017 27 million. We suspect that this is due to better enforcement and detection and we would like to hear from the Minister whether he shares that idea. And therefore also what improvements have been made between 2015 and 2017. Now it could be in theory that the right of inspection already exists in the case of natural policies is indeed an important instrument. That is why I also ask the Minister in exactly how many cases that right of inspection has led to the detection of fraud, so that we know what we are talking about and whether it could be an effective measure at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u28	The GroenLinks speaker talks about a few million. There are also figures, or at least percentages of fraud, that it would be between tens of percent or even 7%. And then it goes to the billions. If these are all assumptions and assumptions, how can you be so sure it's about a few million?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u29	I have now talked about the fraud that has been detected. Sure, what hasn't been detected, we don't know. But I usually follow the information we do, and that's not the billions you're talking about. They're serious amounts, and I didn't say "a few million," I said 27 million. That's a little more than "a few."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u30	I note, however, that it is just as uncertain that it is about a few million when the GroenLinks speaker says that it is about a few billion. Might as well be. Well, I'd like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u31	A statement of what might be a very good observation seems to me, but it is not one on which we base our policy. Our policy is based on the information we do have, and that starts with the serious assumptions. But these are serious amounts. 27 million is also serious, although it is 0.028% in total healthcare expenditure of 97.5 billion in 2017. Even if you only look at the budget that runs through the Health Insurance Act, we're at 0.061%. Serious money, but frankly in the overall picture we understand very well that it was not urgent for the Ministry and that the law has remained in place for so long. There are bigger problems and there seem to be other ways to deal with them than what is being proposed here. But there is still something important about proportionality. Of this amount behind the decimal place, only an eighth, i.e. only 3 million in 2017, or 0.004% of the total healthcare expenditure, is concerned with fraud by the insured person or the pgb holder. Three quarters of the fraud involved fraud by the healthcare provider. This raises not only a practical question and a proportionate one; it also raises a fundamental question, namely whether the violation of the privacy of one, the insured, is proportionate if it is primarily intended to detect fraudulent action by others. The original explanatory statement rightly mentions the violation of fundamental rights, according to the ECHR, but this is precisely where our main concern remains. The fundamental rights of the patient are being violated because another person may be cheating. And that infringement concerns, however, the most sensitive category of personal data. This must be an urgent and comprehensive matter for which no other means of detection exist. In the further reply, the Minister also states that physical control is normal between two private parties, irrespective of the question of care fraud. But then, frankly, the argument for restricting fundamental rights becomes very thin. We are giving the Minister another chance to convince us, because it has not been very successful so far. Mr. Chairman. Even if it's working... Time may run, by the way, Mr. Chairman. I was gonna finish the 15 minutes, but... Yeah, that's better. Even if it is effective, the question of guaranteeing privacy must be addressed. With this bill, health insurers are given the opportunity to access medical data. To the left or right is an infringement of medical professional secrecy, and that is not something. It is one of the core values of our healthcare system. My group is well aware of the fact that there are safeguards in the proposal on this point, inter alia, because access can only be carried out by a doctor who also has medical professional secrecy. In itself beautiful, but that also raises questions of principle, because by its nature medical professional secrecy is there to protect the patient and the relationship between the patient and the caregiver. It's not just a technical measure that you can extend to others, but it's directly related to that care relationship itself. This means that the involvement of a doctor with his or her medical professional secrecy in this role in the fight against fraud is a major anomaly. That is all the more so where the Minister explicitly stated in the House of Representatives that the data cannot be anonymous, because I quote 'anonymised data are not usable for the execution of an individual insurance contract with an insured person'. But if anonymized data cannot be used, does that mean de facto that a patient's health data is used explicitly and that therefore professional secrecy is violated, whatever you call it? How does the Minister see this? Interestingly, the government states in the further reply to D66's questions about the independent expert doctor, where anonymisation is much better regulated, that this is not comparable, because it is a public law regime and a private law regime. This surprises my group very much, because we cannot imagine that the Minister genuinely believes that the safeguards in private law may be a little less stringent than in public law. It is precisely when insurers are treated and approached as private market players that it is obvious to impose the most stringent requirements of care. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. My group stresses in this context that the starting point of today's legislation should be privacy by design and by default. This is the basis of the GDPR and of the underlying European regulations. This is an essential starting point because of the huge data hunger and the associated function creep. The government tends, at the moment, to find the solution to every problem in accessing more citizens' data, but that is a huge danger, so that restraint should be our natural response. "1984" was a warning to citizens, not a manual for the legislator. This brings us to another pain point. Insured persons have lost their fundamental right to their own data with this proposal. Ultimately, medical data belongs to the patient himself and the healthcare provider manages this data for the purpose of caring for the patient. This means that it is simply a reason for the health insurance provider to ask the insured person for permission to inspect a possible check. If, in an exceptional case, this cannot be requested in advance, will the insured person have to be informed immediately after inspection? According to this proposal, it is only three months after the examination that they are informed that the health insurance provider has read their medical records; or even longer, if necessary. As far as our group is concerned, this is far too late. The Minister previously stated that previous information could lead to obstruction of the investigation by health insurers and a dent in the loyalty between healthcare provider and patient. Isn't the opposite the case? Does such a communication not lead to more mistrust on the part of the patient towards his or her healthcare provider so late after looking at the data? Because with this situation, as an insured person, you never know what you're up to with your healthcare provider. After all, there's probably been an investigation going on for three months without you knowing. Moreover, and this is perhaps even worse, it is not appropriate for the Minister here to use the possible subjective reactions of insured persons as an argument for an objective violation of their privacy. This shows, with all due respect, a dedain for the citizens that the government should remain far from. Please approach them as adults. And at least have the guts to tell them that someone's looking into their medical records. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the end, therefore, we come to the argument that these powers already exist in natural policies and that this would only be an extension of them. At the time when the sickness fund and private insurance were merged into the current system, the peculiarities of both schemes continued to exist. Refund policies are now being brought under the same regime. Of course, there is something to be said for this uniformity, but why not harmonise the other way? Why not also delete the right of inspection in the case of natural policies? That is also where the violation of privacy is taking place. As far as we are concerned, the proportionality of that component has not been demonstrated to date. As far as we could ascertain, it is not kept up to date how many times that file check actually led to the detection of fraud in a way that would not have been possible without a file check. In other words, the effectiveness of this far-reaching instrument cannot be established, and that is more in favour of abolishing it than extending it. Therefore, before we could take this step, we should at least first assess the difference between the two groups in terms of the effectiveness of the instrument. Did the Minister have such an evaluation carried out before he came forward with this proposal? Is he willing to do such an evaluation? This has been there for a few years, so there could be a little delay. We have the very nice situation that we have two groups, one with and the other without a file check. An ideal situation for a good investigation, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on enforcement. The law gives health insurers new opportunities that can also affect insured persons. The NZa will monitor the way health insurers deal with these possibilities. But we're wondering how that's gonna happen. At present, the NZa is testing risk-driven. Is that still enough to keep an adequate view on the activities of health insurance companies after this change of law? If it turns out that a health insurance company doesn't follow the rules, then what? Will there be sanctions and, if so, which ones? But there are other risks. For it is possible that insurers may not use this data for other purposes, such as risk selection, but not everything that should not be done. Because medical data gives a full picture of the care required. From this, the health insurance company could derive from how often this person is likely to make a declaration. Big data gets you a long way. On this basis, an insurer can adjust its premiums. Bad for the insured person and an increase in the health insurer's dominant position. How does the government intend to prevent data from being used for purposes other than fraud detection? How's she gonna maintain this? Mr. Chairman. Combating fraud is a good thing, let us be clear, but not at all costs. We tend to conclude that the need, effectiveness and proportionality have not been demonstrated for this proposal in its present form. In particular, we are sceptical about the need for a right of access without a requirement of consent. Most patients will be willing to cooperate. And if it isn't, there's always a criminal route possible. But this Kafkaesque proposal is not proportionate and not demonstrably effective given the extent of the possible fraud and the alternatives that are not needed. Of course, we'd very much like to give the Minister a chance to convince us otherwise. But let's just give him a suggestion. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Gehoord de bezwaren — dit is er nog maar één, er komen nog meer sprekers — kan hij zelf ook wel bedenken dat hij komt met een novelle met als inhoud dat de patiënt zelf toestemming wordt gevraagd voor inzage in het dossier.]] This way, at least the patient remains in charge of his or her own data. I would like to add one more wish to this novelle: I would very much like to see a preliminary evaluation of the current right of access to natural policies. After that, with that information and that adjustment, the Minister has a considerably better chance of convincing us. So we are very curious about his willingness and his answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mr Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u33	Mr. Chairman. Today, in the first term, we are discussing the amendment of the Market Organisation Health Act and some other laws relating to improving supervision, detection, compliance and enforcement. I will speak on behalf of the Animal Party today. Mr. Chairman. This is quite a mouthful for a number of legal adjustments to combat fraud with care money. We have built a complicated healthcare system, where the three core parties, namely the insured, the healthcare providers and the health insurance provider, relate in different ways. In addition to a treatment and financial relationship, these parties also have a role to play in preventing and combating fraud. How complex these relations between the parties can be, Minister Bruins has recently had to experience the bankruptcy of the Slotervaart hospital and the IJsselmeer hospitals. Having to move within 24 hours of barely informed sick patients through the bankruptcy of these hospitals did not really testify to intensive care. The political indignation was great, so the minister was in the wind. But the minister wasn't the one who pulled the financial plug from these hospitals. Political responsibility was with the Minister. What is his role as a system responsible, looking at these bankruptcies, but also at today's issue, in the fight against fraud in the care sector? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Our healthcare system is built to enable care and treatment of patients and therefore has an important financial basis. We have built up a health care system in which public care contributions come into the hands of private health insurance companies that are required to provide insurance for the costs of treatment in case of illness. Health insurance funds are paid to finance the treatment of patients. With these money flows, control also comes in. Lawfulness is an important concept in this respect; a legal term that indicates that a course of action is in line with the rules and decisions in force. Care money must be spent for what it is intended to be. The SP and the Party for Animals strongly oppose the improper use of care money. Fraud harms the insured and undermines solidarity. Fraud must be detected and combated. However, the extent of care fraud is difficult to estimate, according to the Minister in his reply of 31 October. The total amount wrongly declared through fraud established by the health insurance companies in 2017 is 27 million. In addition, the Information Node Care Fraud, as well as the Public Prosecutor, the Tax Administration and the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate register care fraud. However, there is no clear picture. We have built up a very complicated declaration system with a heavy administrative burden for healthcare providers and health insurers. Every year, the health insurance companies have a large number of them; I haven't checked it, I've read it somewhere. Those declarations, based on the DBs, should be completed by healthcare providers. The finer a system is, the more work it produces, the greater the likelihood of errors and the more extensive the control. Isn't our declaration system just too complicated? The possibility of making mistakes and committing fraud is embedded in the system. I can't help thinking about the phenomenon of upcoding. The present draft law provides for a legal basis for a material audit of refund insurance without payment agreement between health insurance provider and healthcare provider, but also to exchange more and deeper information between healthcare provider and health insurance provider. At present, the health insurance companies are already carrying out the necessary physical checks to combat care fraud. Healthcare insurers are already using a Roadmap of Fraud Health Insurance Scheme as part of the current legislation. The proposed legal amendments to Article 87 of the Health Insurance Act explicitly describe the medical adviser. Similarly, these proposed adjustments describe more detailed material and detail checks. Should I, I ask the Minister, read this in such a way that the current exchange of personal data does not have sufficient legal basis in this context? Is the current position of the medical adviser and his or her role in a step-by-step fraud investigation sufficiently legally established? Why else would these proposed legal extensions be? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The proposed amendment to the Health Organisation Act, Article 1 (4) w, provides for detailed information on the insurance company's investigation of the health care provider and on data, including the insured's medical and criminal personal data. Is it true that, at the request of the health insurance company in the context of the fight against fraud, a person who is treated must report, in addition to the diagnosis, when his patient has a criminal history? How am I supposed to explain this? I would ask the Minister, if he decides to amend this draft law, to clarify its content. Medical confidentiality is centuries old. As well as 400 years before Christ, Hippocrates recognized the importance of medical professional secrecy, and it is still central to the doctor's oath and codes of conduct of the professional in the care: "All that comes to my knowledge in the exercise of my profession or in daily traffic with people, and that should not be told, I will keep secret and reveal no one. May I, if I keep this oath faithfully, find joy in my life and in the exercise of my art, but may the opposite be the case if I violate it." When I read this part of this oath like that, I feel the value it has in it. This value can be found in the doctor's oath, the statutory medical professional secrecy and the corresponding right to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u34	The SP has little faith in medical confidentiality. Do you or are you sure that the patient's data will be passed on to the insurer and that wrong things will happen to it? A medical adviser does indeed have to comply with that medical professional secrecy, partly because he is subject to medical disciplinary law. So he can always be dealt with afterwards. Don't you have that confidence in the insurance company's medical advisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u35	You have just heard me argue that we are bringing about a legal amendment which would seem to make the medical professional secrecy of that medical adviser even more necessary. The remark I made was: why do these legal changes when we already give that medical consultant optimal space? I therefore did not rule on the lack of trust in the medical professional secrecy of the medical adviser. I asked why there is a need to introduce this legislation here, because the medical adviser can already look at his physical control. Then why do we amend the law and why do we, as it were, deepen the principles of that material control? I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. When I read this part of this oath like that, I feel the value it has in it. This value can be found in the doctor's oath, the statutory medical professional secrecy and the corresponding right to change; I had already had this document. The patient should be able to trust that his data is in safe hands. The patient's confidence in the treatment provider is the basis of each treatment. For the groups of the SP and the group of the Party for Animals, medical professional secrecy is sacrosanct, as I can symbolically say. The draft law before us sets out the substantive control in the context of the legality of a health insurance scheme. These are two interests against each other, but with a bridge between them, which is not used. The present bill does not provide for an active involvement of the patient to share his medical data in the context of fraud investigation. This will make this bill a form of paternalistic legislation that will keep the patient at bay around this important issue. Involve the patient, Minister, ask for his consent to use his data or at least inform the patient in advance, as this one also has an interest in fraud-free care. About 2,500 files are checked annually by insurance doctors. That is not a large number; so it should not be that much work. Would the Minister not be interested in an experiment in which insured persons are given an active role in the fight against fraud? I'd like an answer from the Minister on this. How serious are the ten health insurance companies currently dealing with the fight against fraud? After all, that is an important task. I can remember that a number of health insurers went through a cost-benefit analysis strategy on the fight against fraud a year or two ago. The benefits of the fight against fraud were less than the costs to be incurred. One might expect that the health insurance companies, as a channel of public money, would be tight in the fight against fraud. We are curious how the health insurance companies now fulfil their role. How do these ten health insurers coordinate their mutual approach to care fraud? How does the Minister assess the efforts of health insurers in this regard? Has the best been achieved? Healthcare insurers play an important enforcement role in detecting care fraud. That health insurance companies signal and report fraud is logical, but insurance and the fight against fraud are not activities that are mutually exclusive in relation to the SP and the Party for Animals. Tackling fraudsters therefore belongs, as far as we are concerned, to another body, a body whose main task is to detect fraud, which has no financial market interest in the medical records of insured persons, such as insurers, and which cooperates closely with the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is responsible for criminal prosecution of fraudsters. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to link a fraud brigade to our market leader, the NZa, who has been put in a stronger position by this bill to address fraudsters under administrative law. I would like to ask the Minister for his opinion on this, including whether he is prepared to investigate the possibility of such a fraud brigade linked to, for example, the NZa. Two years ago, I visited my health insurance provider, DSW, on this subject. That was an interesting visit, certainly to see that where DSW went to report cases in fraud cases, they were hardly dealt with by the police. Visible was also the frustration generated by this by the DSW employees. A health insurance company takes its imposed fraud role seriously, but runs into a hidden chain of justice. We are now two years ahead, and given the recent reports to the national police that have not been processed, I do not expect the situation with the police to improve on this point. Publicly hardly any criminal action against care fraudsters does not really increase the sense of solidarity. I'd like the Minister's opinion on this. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. We want to know more and more, but do we do what we already have and know the best way to combat care fraud? Our health care system is difficult and invites you to make mistakes. The present bill aims to broaden and deepen the current rules of material control towards the restitution policy by looking even more closely at the patient's medical records, at the expense of his or her privacy. The real extent of the care fraud remains unclear and the SP and Animal Party groups still have the question whether the best way to deal with fraud is within the existing possibilities. Are the health insurance companies working together enough to combat care fraud? In short, the groups of the SP and the PvdD are critical. We are pleased to note that the Minister is so. We would like to hear from the Minister the reasons why he is considering amending the current legislative proposal. Of course, we remain as always interested in the Minister's answer to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u36	Thank you, Mr. Don. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Don. That is not so much because of his contribution just now, but because of the fact that in just over three hours he will be less young. That is an enormous achievement of Mr Don. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the Health Organisation Act, hereinafter referred to as 'the Wmg'. This law governs the view of the medical file by an independent medical adviser to see if the insured person is also entitled to receive the same treatment as his policy and to fight fraud. This is not about something new, but about a possibility that health insurers have had since 2006. If there is a contract between a healthcare provider and an insurer, the healthcare provider shall submit the declaration directly to the insurer. Insurers may check the legality and effectiveness of care provided in compulsory and supplementary health insurance. This is a so-called physical check, whether or not followed by a fraud investigation. The limited access to the patient file required for this is only possible under strict conditions and after a large number of steps. This option only applies if the healthcare provider declares directly to the insurer. In other cases, that possibility does not apply so far. There is a gap in the situation that insured persons pay health notes directly to the health care provider and subsequently to the health insurance provider. This occurs in non-contracted care and in supplementary health insurance. That is now being levelled, at least in this proposal. A scheme that has been in place since 2006 will now also apply where it does not yet apply. Moreover, this is something else which is now laid down by law rather than by ministerial regulation. Mr Don mentioned this for a while. This is a more explicit guarantee of parliamentary consent and is therefore a good development in my group's view. The reason for this bill was a declaration fraud in 2011 at a healthcare organisation that worked with policies without a contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u38	Does Mr Bruijn have any idea in those 12 years since 2006 in how many cases that file control has effectively led to fraud detection?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u39	That is a very interesting question, because the main effect of this bill is the behavioural effect or the preventive effect. Anyone who works in healthcare knows that these kinds of controls can eventually take place. We assume that this leads, as with many laws, to many people being less tempted to cheat than would be the case without that law. This leads to less fraud, one can reasonably assume, as in many laws. There is no such thing as fraud that does not take place. Now it's incredibly hard to prove that something doesn't exist. For example, it is difficult to prove that Saint Nicholas does not exist. You can hardly prove that when we all know it. We also know that large amounts of fraud are prevented by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u40	We know Mr Bruijn as a good scientist and he has to lick his fingers at the thought that you can indeed look at the difference with an experimental and a control group, and that is what we have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u41	Yes, Chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u42	Let me finish. I'm sure you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u43	I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u44	One group is the one where that right of access already applies and the other is the one where that does not yet apply. Then you'd expect us to make an analysis of the difference. All kinds of speculation about what healthcare providers will or will not do, because that is or is not in the law, are nice, but we can analyse here what is actually happening and what are these behavioural effects. Isn't that what Mr. Bruijn has to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u45	I'm sure that appeals to me. I have just heard Mr Ganzevoort mention that possibility. I think that's something to think about, too. When I think about it initially, as a scientist, I do not come to the conclusion that this has a great chance of success. Why not? Because several parameters differ between those groups; not only that this research takes place in one and the other not, but also the nature of the contracts is totally different, and therefore possibly also the nature of the population, of the insurer and of the treatments involved. These groups are likely to be incomparable on much more parameters than on the question of whether this form of fraud investigation is permitted. This research is therefore not very likely. At least it wouldn't have a great chance at NWO to get a grant, but we can try it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u46	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u47	Most research applications at NWO do not have that much chance, so let's talk about that again, but we don't have to do that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u48	That's too bad, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u49	Well, that's a real shame, isn't it? With the points he raises, Mr Bruijn gives exactly what is part of the problem. He has some assumptions why he thinks this is working, but he also says that there are so many factors that we don't really know. And then it becomes the question, and I am very curious to hear his answer on whether such a fundamental violation of privacy is justified if it is likely to have such an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u50	I will come back to that last point later. If Mr Ganzevoort proposes to add guarantees in addition to all the criteria in this Chamber when reviewing legislative proposals, then I suspect that my group, with which I would like to discuss them, will not support that proposal. Then we will adopt few laws in the future, and that is also our job here. Mr. Chairman. The result of this legislative amendment was a declaration fraud in 2011 at a healthcare organisation. This led to the finding in the Lower House that there would be too little visibility for care fraud. And indeed it turned out that the health insurance provider cannot properly check notes that the insured person pays and declares directly. He must pay compensation, even if he suspects a mistake or fraud. The contributor pays the bill for this. Healthcare insurers have the experience that this route is a simple opportunity to fraud. At the time, this fraud and the suspected extent of it led the House of Representatives in a large majority to call upon the Minister to do something about it. There were a number of parties represented here today. The Minister has started work, made additional resources available to combat care fraud and has started the legislative amendment that is now under way. This change of law allows health insurers to carry out their legal task of ensuring that the health insurance premium is properly spent. As mentioned above, this possibility of access under conditions has existed since the entry into force of the Health Insurance Act in 2006, when the healthcare provider makes a direct declaration to the insurer. This has not given rise to complaints about loss of privacy in the last 12 years, nor to an initiative of government or any party in parliament to put an end to that arrangement. There are also no reports of breaches of medical professional secrecy. The legislative proposal is therefore, from the point of view of consistency of policy, a logical adjustment and an improvement, which my group wholeheartedly supports. During the written procedure we asked a number of questions. We thank the Minister for the answer. In this debate, I would like to ask for further clarification on a number of points. As regards the proportionality of the legislative proposal, the members of my group have already been asked about the expected proceeds in terms of the additional amount of fraud to be detected. The Government indicated in the reply that the precise extent of the fraud is not known. That doesn't just apply to care. In other sectors, too, it is difficult to identify the overall extent of fraud. This will be even more difficult if this fraud is effectively prevented. This applies all the more to fraud which is prevented and therefore does not take place. To what extent individual measures, such as those contained in this legislative proposal, do they contribute to reducing irregularities? Moreover, these measures also affect each other and reinforce each other. All in all, my group understands that it is not possible to make a quantitative estimate of the behavioural effect of many laws and regulations. My group still has the supplementary question as to whether the communication from healthcare insurers Netherlands is correct that health insurers under the current regime detect millions of errors in healthcare notes every year, including cases of deliberate fraud. That is the fraud that is being detected, not the fraud that is being prevented. Is it not reasonable to assume that significant fraud will also be detected and prevented under the new regime? Can the Minister confirm that? Is the Minister prepared to undertake to monitor the proceeds of the legislative amendment in terms of detected and undisturbed errors and fraud and to inform this Chamber of the results after, for example, five years? Mr. Chairman. The members of my group also ask the Minister why the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State has not been followed in order to determine, in the light of the proportionality requirement, that the processing of health data is limited in the sense that only the conclusion of the physical check by the medical adviser is provided to the insurer, i.e. not all the information. Why should the reasons for that conclusion, which contains a great deal of medical information, be accessible to a medical adviser when the insurer contests a charge? Medical information will mostly be part of that. According to the reply, the dispute, at least as a health insurer and healthcare provider, does not come to an end together, of a service charged or a charge charged, ultimately takes place before a civil court. In a civil case, the adage applies: whoever claims has to prove it. I think the President knows what that is like in Latin; I do not know, by the way. This means that the burden of proof that a declaration is unlawful rests on the insurer. If the medical adviser's conclusion cannot be substantiated, that evidence will not be produced and the claim will still have to be satisfied by the insurer. Because of this undesirable effect, the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State cannot be followed, according to the government. That reasoning follows my group, but this still leaves open the possibility of following the Council of State in the sense that in principle only the conclusion is always shared with the health insurance provider. It is only in those cases where it comes to a civil case that the additional information should be provided, where necessary in relation to the burden of proof. I'd like a vision from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. In response to a question from my group, the Government indicated in the reply that the insurer and healthcare provider could agree on a, I quote, "form of arbitration," or perhaps more generally a form of dispute resolution. In doing so, they leave the assessment of the dispute they have with regard to the legality of a declaration for re-evaluation to an independent third doctor. That expert shall then have at his disposal, only with the consent of the insured person, the underlying medical data necessary to form a judgment. The confidentiality may be laid down in an agreement to be signed by the third doctor. An additional guarantee is that this expert must have a BIG registration, which also applies to medical discipline. Would the Minister consider the scope of the abovementioned opinion of the Council of State to consider the possibility of having insurers and healthcare providers make structural agreements on the principle of applying such a dispute resolution, without, of course, taking into account the possibility of proceeding to court? Then there is the question of informing the insured person about access to his or her file. First of all, the possibility of access is regulated by law and may therefore be assumed to be generally known. Of course, that applies to a lot of legislation. This is, of course, formal, and therefore health insurers themselves state in their policy conditions how they deal with data relating to the fight against fraud and material control of claims. On top of that, most health insurance companies provide public information on their website informing insured persons about the fight against fraud and physical checks. Most of them also refer to the detailed national protocol on physical control on their website. So that's a lot of information for that insured person. In the general consultation in the Lower House of 29 June 2016 on ICT in the healthcare sector, the then Minister of VWS promised that she would rethink the issue of "I quote "the way in which we can make it clear to the patient in broad terms that his or her file can be looked at." My group's question to the Minister is whether he can indicate whether new ideas have emerged from this reflection process. Then request prior consent from the insured person. The Government indicated in the reply that asking for prior authorisation from insured persons could lead to frustration of the audit, administrative burden, anxiety of insured persons and possible damage to the relationship of trust between insured persons and healthcare provider. This financial but also social importance weighs heavily. Would the Minister like to comment once again on exactly how these adverse effects are achieved and how he weighs this against the patient's right to property in relation to his own file? With regard to the ex post information of insured persons, the Government indicated in the reply that the amendment of the Member Klever creates an obligation for the health insurance provider to inform the insured person within three months of a detailed check carried out on his or her file, unless this would impede the examination of the health insurance provider, the monitoring of compliance with certain provisions of this law, the Long-Term Care Act or the Health Insurance Act or the detection of criminal offences. That is what that amendment says about the three-month period. From the wording of that amendment, the government states that the insured person may also be informed earlier by the health insurance provider if the health insurance provider chooses to do so. As a supervisor, the Dutch Healthcare Authority has the task of checking whether the health insurance companies comply with this legal obligation. Would the Minister not find it legitimate, consistent and also in the spirit of the law, of which the amendment is now part, if the health insurance provider should not inform the insured person earlier than three months but should inform the insured person as soon as nothing more opposes it in terms of the objections referred to above? In fact, that whole three-month period would no longer exist. As soon as the insured person can be informed, in the sense that at that time the importance of the investigation does not oppose it, should the insured person be able to be informed, even if it is earlier or later than three months? In other words, is the government prepared to promote that the person concerned should always be informed as soon as practicable, taking into account the importance of the investigation? Is the government prepared to make a commitment in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u51	I think it is an important move to indeed minimize the time limit for that infringement. Does Mr Bruijn agree with us that the ideal would be to obtain prior approval?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u52	If the importance of the research does not oppose it, that would certainly be ideal, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u53	If this were to be the criterion, would it not be appropriate, in this reasoning, to ask an independent body, for example a judge, to determine in advance whether that is such that the infringement may be committed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u54	Then I'm beginning to wonder if that's feasible. If you have to go to a judge every time you have to do that, you're gonna have a lot of administrative burdens. It also results in a polarization or a dispute. Of course, you'd prefer to settle this in harmony and not go to court. So I would rather have the Minister's answer to my question as to how exactly that interest of the investigation is harmed if you inform the insured person at all. Then we can weigh that against the importance of the patient's right to property in relation to his own file. That's the only way you'll be able to make that assessment. And in line with that, I asked: wouldn't you always want to inform the patient immediately, as soon as the importance of the study no longer opposes it? And if you do, you're actually going beyond the Klever amendment. That will be included, but you will go one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u55	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u56	No, I think that movement is very valuable. I can imagine you say: look, in 99% of the cases insured people will just want to cooperate and so on, and the judge can look at the one percent that we're talking about. Well, at least we've secured it well with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u57	I hear what Mr Ganzevoort is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u58	I have a supplementary question on the same point. Mr Bruijn says that it is possible to weigh up when information is needed. But who's gonna weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u59	No, those weren't my words. I put a question to the Minister, namely whether you should always inform the patient immediately, as soon as the importance of the investigation no longer opposes it. Before that, I asked the Minister whether he could explain exactly how that interest of the investigation is harmed or might be harmed when you inform the patient about that procedure. I have asked these questions, and I am waiting for the answers to them, because from the reply I have not yet fully understood them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u60	The question is: then who will judge whether the balance of interests has been made right? Who, and how?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u61	Well, that's basically what we do in a generic sense here, of course, when we have the Minister's answer. If the Minister can clearly explain why the importance of research is being harmed in a generic sense when you inform a patient if we hear it here............................................................................................................................................. If the Minister's answer is 'no, that has to be looked at on a case-by-case basis', then the question would arise as to who is looking at it, but we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u62	You only have a very small moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u63	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost done, too. Thank you. In this respect, my group's question remains unanswered, namely whether the insured person is only informed of the fact that access has been granted, or whether any parts or information on the file have been accessed. That is not what my group can do. Would the Minister care to comment on that? Finally, Mr President. Members of my group would like to know from the Minister whether the proposed legislative amendment extends the obligation of healthcare providers to provide the necessary data for physical checks. Mr Don mentioned this for a while. On page 19 of the explanatory statement, it is stated that the obligation described "as a result of the existing legal structure whereby the health care authority determines the description of the performance, provides the basis for the information"......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If my group understands it correctly, this is now being laid down more explicitly by law rather than by ministerial regulation, which better guarantees parliamentary consent. Can the Minister confirm this, and that this is not, de facto, an extension of what information is being provided, but only an explicit guarantee of that arrangement in the law rather than in a ministerial arrangement? And if so, we will undoubtedly all embrace it here. Mr. Chairman. The members of the VVD Group look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u64	Thank you, Mr. Bruijn. I give the floor to Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u65	Thank you, Mr President. The members of the CDA Group look back with some surprise on the ground and the run-up to the discussion of this bill today. And for the further treatment that surprise may also be mentioned. The reason for this legislative process, and Mr Bruijn also mentioned it, was social unrest about fraud involving declarations of concern, more than five years ago. In view of the indignation, the House of Representatives urged the Minister responsible at the time to take urgent action. That resulted in this bill. First of all, this will ensure that the possibilities of dealing with fraud with declarations are aligned, regardless of the type of policy or the nature of the billing. The CDA Group considers that there are adequate possibilities to deal with fraud and that it is the same in all cases. All the more remarkable, in our view, is the fact that the legislative proposal in this Chamber was the subject of a debate on whether or not the legislation in question was proportionate, and whether or not there was an unacceptable violation of privacy. My group answers these questions in principle with 'yes, the legislation is proportionate' and 'no, there is no unacceptable violation of privacy'. Let me explain this briefly. Mr. Chairman. Fraud is inadmissible, anytime, anywhere. The extent of the fraud does not matter in this position of principle. We shouldn't want it, so you have to fight fraud, track it down and punish it. Combating fraud has a signal effect, and that has a preventive effect. Mr Bruijn has rightly pointed that out. Who knows there's a chance of getting caught, leaves some criminal stuff behind. It's not even that important how much you actually track down. Combating fraud increases solidarity in the system, because people know that freeriders are not left untouched. And combating fraud leads to control of costs. That is something that we can certainly use in times of great pressure on the budget. In short, if you want to maintain our healthcare system, which is still one of the best in the world, you will have to make an active effort to prevent and combat abuse, for example in the form of fraud. In that sense, we consider this bill to be proportionate. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group also considers the legislative proposal to be proportionate because this amendment would allow the verification of claims in all cases, irrespective of policy and the existence or non-existence of payment agreements, to be carried out equally. Equal treatment of equal cases; we consider that to be proportionate. Here and there, too, it has been suggested this evening that you could also achieve this situation by weakening the scope for control of natural policies. Theoretically, of course, that is the case, but in view of what I have just said about the sustainability of our system, I would like to make sure that this possibility is not distorted. Is the legislation admissible from the privacy point of view? My group answers this question in the affirmative, as has already been said. In the written preparation it became clear that there is an escalation ladder of several steps, which should be completed in the event of a suspicion of an incorrect declaration, only as a final step under the responsibility of the medical adviser, who is bound by professional secrecy with his staff, can be consulted in relevant parts of a medical file. In the vast majority of cases, it doesn't have to come to that. As we understand it, some 2,500 files are seen every year. That is a negligible percentage of the total. Moreover, it is clear that the whole process of fraud investigation must be and is totally GDPR proof. In short, the extension of the possibility of combating fraud, as the government intends, has the support of our group. However, we still have a few questions on the follow-up to the detection of fraud and on a few other aspects. Mr. Chairman. If fraud is detected, the NZa may impose sanctions other than the financial set-off by the health insurance provider. Now, of course, and rightly so, there is an open objection and appeal against these sanctions. But the NZa can also disclose the name of the fraudster. This can be done after a period of five working days, without hearing and hearing. We have wondered whether this is not a very short period of time and whether it is not a little short-sighted, all the more so because we know that mistakes can also be made in this type of process by investigating and prosecuting authorities. I would just like to draw your attention to the shocking reports of irregularities in the criminal justice system. You will only have a discussion with the insurer as an independent one-pitter and discover during your holiday that the NZa has made your name public, without having to ask for a provision in time. Objection and appeal also has no suspensive effect, if we see it correctly. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. What guarantees, without objection and appeal, are there for careful action by the NZa in this type of proceedings? We would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to mention the possibility created by this bill of restricting the market power of informal regional cooperation. If the NZa wants to tackle such a partnership, what escalation steps are foreseen in the context of an intervention? Can the Minister say anything about that? My group has also wondered about the balance of power between this type of relationship and the health insurance companies, of which there are in fact only four in our country. In many cases, health insurers negotiate contracts with healthcare providers on behalf of other insurers. That seems to me to be informal cooperation too. Is that form acceptable? Would the Minister like to say something about that? Are there opportunities to act against such informal cooperation and has this been done many times? In general terms, the ACM can of course intervene, but does the NZa also have powers in this, and if so what? And if not, shouldn't that be the case? We do not think that healthcare providers want to arm themselves against this type of practice of cooperation between insurers in advance. We would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. The comment on informal cooperation between insurers brings me to another final comment on the role of insurers in our system. By the end of the year, there is always noise and public noise about contracts between insurers and providers. At that time, the agreed volume or budget has sometimes been consumed, which without further measures means that patients have to wait or be forwarded. For the coming year, it is in some cases a question of reaching agreement, which can lead to uncertainty about treatment options at a familiar address for the patient. In most cases agreement is reached, whether or not it is after public violence and intervention by one of the parties. From the system's point of view, it's all part of the game or the system as it was planned. From the client's point of view, however, it is noise that leads to uncertainty and that is cause for concern. The collision between the system and the individual citizen is now creating tension in many areas: see the movement of the yellow hoists. We need to think about this responsibly and respond to it. As I said, the Netherlands has an excellent healthcare system. My group agrees with the role played by the parties in this, but we must tackle the fragility of the system and its disruptions. In my group's view, the proposal for an initiative banning the distribution of benefits by health insurance companies must also be considered in this context when it comes back to this issue. In balancing and stabilising the power relations between insurers and healthcare providers, my group therefore wonders whether the current instruments should not be examined more thoroughly than simply by introducing the possibility of acting against regional cooperation between providers. A more fundamental consideration aimed at improving the system while preserving the achievements of the current system is obvious, in my group's view. We would like to hear the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u66	Thank you, Mr. Flierman. Mr. Don has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Flierman, for your speech. You have a high priority in the fight against fraud. You call the bill itself "proportional." You heard me arguing about DSW, who just can't get rid of his report at the police station. I've even heard DSW produce on an annual basis what the entire Schiedam police station can handle. How proportional is this? I find it very difficult, because in the end we go further in our regulations, in the scrutiny of detail and in material control. We want to look deeper and tackle more. But the instruments we have now are not sufficient. I'd like an answer from you, Mr. Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u68	I have to say that Mr Don van DSW Zorgverzekeraar has heard that there seems to be a lot of fraud if the entire Schiedam police force can be kept to work with it. That illustrates the importance of this bill, I would say. If the capacity for enforcement and enforcement is inadequate, we must do something about it. But we must not call into question the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u69	That's right. Apparently, the DSW succeeds well to make fraud clear and tackle it. So the current system is already working. But then you say we need to increase police capacity. Shouldn't we be having that discussion instead of having another extension of material control and detail control in this law? Anyway, that is a discussion on another area and another area. You'll end up with Security and Justice. But your party, the CDA, has the key to doing something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u70	I think you should do one thing and not leave the other. So I would say: let us tackle the fraud that can be detected in the system. This bill offers opportunities to do better, if only because we have the same possibilities in all cases. In my view, this is an important improvement that is being achieved through this legislative proposal. Mr Bruijn has already pointed this out, but I would also like to emphasise that. And if the implementation capacity is inadequate, we would like to hear it from this minister. If the implementation capacity of the Justice Department is inadequate, that debate should be held in the Justice budget. I think I know it's going to be here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u71	Mr. Don, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u72	I support Mr. Flierman's question to the Minister. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the police's implementation capacity is inadequate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u73	I try to follow Mr Flierman's argument. I'd like to make sure I heard it right. He says that the fight against fraud is intrinsically so important for solidarity, for the maintenance of the system, for the credibility of the insured and so on, that it is, by definition, proportionate. That is interesting, because then he says on the other hand that he considers the breach of privacy proportionate, because there are a number of safeguards. And that breach and safeguards must then be weighed together. But on the one hand, the reduction of fraud and its prevention, he makes an absolute point. This means that proportionality is not really an issue anymore. But he can't be serious, can he? He won't think it's convenient that we put an accountant in the waiting room every time an insured person visits a health care provider. He can, but he won't want to. He cannot therefore mean that the reduction of fraud is by definition and absolutely so important that it is always, by definition, proportionate. So I would like to hear a little more explanation as to why he thinks this is proportionate and why the other aspect should not be weighed as heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u74	Of course, the CDA Group does not advocate that an audit be carried out behind every insured person or behind every note that a health care provider sends to the insurer. Mr Ganzevoort has rightly assumed that we do not advocate this. What I have wanted to say and I think I have said is that every system is now talking about the health insurance system, but you can say that many other systems are only sustainable if fraud and abuse are actively combated and if it is clear to the participants in that system that fraud does not pay. In this sense, I have indeed referred to the fight against fraud as a matter inherent in a system such as the health system. You can still talk about the form in which this fight is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u75	Thank you, Mr. Flierman. I'm pressing the mood bell now, so everyone knows there's going to be a maiden speech. I call Mrs Vink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u76	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the floor. And thank you to colleagues and to the Registry for the warm welcome I have had in the last two months. As you know, until the end of January I will replace Mrs Bredenoord, who will then, undoubtedly full of energy, start again. Today's bill has a long history. It's been mentioned before. The foundation is located in the EuroPsychecase, named after the foundation that came in the news in 2012 because of its declaration behaviour. In the end, this bill was tabled. Expenditure on care is high and costs continue to rise. We also saw this in the pieces we were allowed to receive in September. It is therefore all the more important that care money is well spent. Fraud must be tackled. The big question then is: how can fraud be dealt with best? And what means can best be used? Our group is running into a number of issues in this legislative proposal. In summary, the following points are addressed: The fact that in situations a medical record may be looked at. The fact that this inspection is carried out by a medical adviser, who is employed by, for example, a health insurance company. The fact that, contrary to the opinion of the Council of State, this medical adviser shares not only the conclusion of the physical check, but also the reasoning. This will inevitably increase the sharing of information on the insured person and the medical data. The fact that there is no prior knowledge of the file with the insured person. This last point is particularly harsh for our group, because in the vast majority of cases it is not the insured person who is suspected of fraud. If we put these points alongside the unclear profit of this proposal, then we cannot come to a different conclusion than that we still have many questions about this proposal. Mr. Chairman. A number of figures have already been mentioned today. During the treatment in the Lower House, on the basis of figures from Zorgverzekerings Nederland, an amount of 11 million euros was discussed, which would amount to a percentage of 0.01% of healthcare expenditure. In response to questions from our group in this Chamber, among others, an amount of EUR 27 million was mentioned. These figures come from a report by Health Insurance companies Netherlands about 2017. Can the Minister confirm that these are the only known figures? The figures show that the vast majority of incorrect declarations are not caused by intent but by ignorance. As far as our group is concerned, a great deal of profit can still be achieved there. In response to questions from this Chamber, it has also been reported that it is not possible to indicate exactly how large the profits of this proposal will be. The explanatory memorandum states that health insurers can make a greater priority of combating fraud. In the report of Zorgverzekerings Nederland, it is stated that since 2016 extra efforts have been made on the so-called horizontal supervision, and that this is paying off. This raises the question of whether the proposal is still necessary in order to achieve the objective of ensuring the correct use of care money. We would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at this point. Is access to the medical records really necessary in order to prevent fraud? Mr. Chairman. Medical confidentiality is the basis for a relationship of trust between treatment and patient. It is protected by law and international treaties. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament supports the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers. In any event, the Klever amendment adopted in the Lower House informs the insured person afterwards about the inspection of the file. Informing afterwards is better than not taking any action at all on this point, but it is not enough for our group. The best thing would be for the insured person to give prior consent to access to the medical record. Our group believes that if access to the medical file would be necessary in the fight against fraud, an insured person should be involved. This possibility has been called for several times by our group and by other groups. The Minister did not consider this possible. It was mentioned as a possible obstacle to the investigation. The D66 Group is keen to hear what possible obstacles the Minister is thinking about. The D66 group also likes to hear how it can be justified that a healthcare provider knows about the inspection but not an insured person. Once again, that is all the more worrying for our group now that it is often not the patient suspected of fraud. Mr. Chairman. Then the position of the medical consultant. The medical adviser shall be subject to medical professional secrecy. If we start from the relationship of health insurance provider-insured-care provider, the medical consultant is employed by the health insurance company. As a last resort, a medical record can be examined in order to assess whether there is fraud. Questions which the medical adviser will have to answer, for example, are whether the care has been provided and whether this care was most appropriate given the health status of the insured person. How can the medical adviser, whether unintentional or not, be prevented from sitting on the treatment chair? The PvdA Group has asked for this in an earlier round of questions. We would like to receive a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State has advised that the medical adviser should only share the conclusion after an investigation and not the justification. That opinion was not followed, because the conclusion should be justified in a court of law. But privacy and medical confidentiality are not small bears on the road to these kinds of things, they are essential concepts. Was the opinion of the Council of State and the practical objections which the Minister has to that opinion not an additional reason to consider whether the position of the medical adviser could be changed, while ensuring the consultant's independence? The D66 group likes to hear the Minister's views on this. Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of my speech. As indicated, we have many questions about this proposal. Of course, as for many other groups, we must be able to deal with fraud, but it is important that patients are involved and that they know or allow their files to be read. Medical professional secrecy must be kept to the maximum. We do not see that in the proposal before us. We are therefore looking forward with interest to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Vink. Please stand still. Mrs Vink, congratulations on your maiden speech! You're replacing Annelien Bredenoord, who's on maternity leave. You said it. That maternity leave and its replacement is possible thanks to a law of 2005 of then Minister Thom de Graaf. You yourself used the scheme a few years ago when you were a city council member: legislation in practice. Allow me to outline some of your background. After you obtained your Bachelor's degree in Staff & Labour at the Christian University of Holland, you started your Master's degree in Labour Law at the University of Amsterdam. In 2009 you graduated, while since 2006 you have been an employee of personnel and salary administration at Corris Fundraising and later as an employee of the Service Individual Services and employee of the Works Council Advisory Centre FNV. As a labour law lawyer, you started with ARAG in 2009. In 2010 you returned to the FNV as a lawyer to represent individual interests. You then worked at the General Association of School Leaders. Since 2016 you have been a senior business advisor with the team Law & Regulation of implementation organisation P-Direkt of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. You are probably aware that this Chamber is switching to P-Direkt's system. You're laughing, you know that. You probably know that. In October 2018, you were left inactive due to incompatibility of functions. Since 2002, you have been a member of D66. In that year you became directly active as treasurer on the Department Board of the Young Democrats Friesland. You were also a member of the National Board of the Young Democrats and of various programme and theme committees. In 2008, you volunteered as a Democrat-for-Democrat in the campaign of American presidential candidate Barack Obama. From 2010 to 2014 you were a member of the Utrecht City Council. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment to give the honourable Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but only after I have done so first, Mrs Vink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u78	I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u79	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate Mr Vink on her maiden speech tonight. The treatment of this law has a special course; it has been remembered for a while. The submission took place five years ago, partly as a result of some cases of fraud that occurred in the previous years. Two years ago, the law was filed here and the committee did written preliminary research. After that, elections and a cabinet formation took place, and in July this Chamber received its answers and resumed its proceedings. In the meantime we are about five years further, and the world is five years further. The question is whether the method identified in this draft law is still the most appropriate for the purpose. In any case, that is the question that concerns my group. My group also has strong reservations about this bill on many points. Care fraud occurs and needs to be combated. There's no doubt about that. But this law gives healthcare insurers and the NZa resources without the actual scale of the problem being determined. The minister himself says he doesn't know the size. It is quite conceivable that this is a limited number of cases. It is also conceivable that some of what is considered to be a care fraud consists of incorrect registration. Hence the continuing demand for the proportionality of this law. Fraud in the care sector is already being investigated and also combated, more than in 2013. What is the reason for opting for this approach, which gives health insurance companies who have an interest, as they miss out on income in the event of care fraud, and which gives them such an explicit role? It is the responsibility of health insurance companies to monitor the legitimate implementation of the Health Insurance Act, but they are now increasingly becoming involved in the fight against fraud. Is that the way we should go, partly in view of the question of the extent and significance of fraud in this sector? And what does this do with the image of insurers in that sector? Another problem is access to patients' medical records by health insurers. We remember the debates in this house with the previous minister, including on the electronic patient file, where it was a major point that health insurers were not allowed access to medical records, with the important aim that health insurers could not refuse patients, clients because of certain risks. The current Health Insurance Scheme therefore sets strict limits to this. In this legislative proposal, the possibility for health insurers to access, extend and in fact standardise medical data in addition to personal data is extended. This may be a step-by-step step, but in the end, the health insurance provider can use the medical record in case of suspected fraud under certain conditions. And the direction lies entirely with the health insurance provider, also in the assessment of the necessary research method. He can scale up to the final material research required, making a solid substantive analysis of the choices around the healthcare provider. In addition to the question about the position that health insurers get with this, there is the question of protecting privacy. In the meantime, we have all become much more sensitive to this issue, to the violation of one's privacy, and how desirable or correct it is to make this law possible. First of all, there is the demand for the sharing of personal data, also in the light of the new General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR. The problem with this is the provision of personal data and, ultimately, access to the medical file in the context of the physical investigation, without prior consent. The fact that prior consent is not requested is important, as it is stated, in order to ensure that the investigation into possible offences continues undisturbed. However, the GDPR precisely states that a healthcare provider must be able to demonstrate that the client has given consent to the processing of his or her data. This applies to personal data and a fortiori of course for the medical file. Also the question whether the NZA can share the data with authorities such as the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Tax Administration requires consideration in the light of the GDPR. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on these points. Another aspect I would like to mention is that this final access to medical records does something about the doctor-patient relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u80	I have a question for Mr Kuiper. I heard him talking about the health insurance company's position. But I haven't heard what he would want or what he's asking. That health insurance provider is by definition the one who receives the invoice, so it is also the one who sees the invoice first, who may think that something is wrong, which happens in 1 in 400,000 invoices and then takes steps. But the final assessment takes place, if they do not come out among themselves, by an independent arbitration or by the civil court. How would Mr Kuiper remove that health insurance provider from this chain so that he no longer has an apparently undesirable position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u81	I do not want to take the health insurance provider out of this chain, because I think they should indeed do the checks they do, in order to ensure the effectiveness and legality of proper use of our health insurance system. Couldn't that happen now when we limit it to the formal investigation? Couldn't we get a long way with that? Could other methods perhaps be looked at further? My problem is to scale up that material investigation, you know that. So I do see a role for the health insurance provider, but I would like to set a limit there somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u82	That material examination is not carried out by the health insurance provider, but by a separate organisation, separated from the health insurance company, which is managed by a doctor who is under medical disciplinary law, who must exercise secrecy and who is therefore looking at it. Nevertheless, it can quickly go to an independent arbitration or to the civil court. There too, I do not see how this could be less bad or better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u83	Mr Bruijn outlines what it is intended to do, but that is precisely the problem which my group feels the same. The medical examiner, even if he has professional secrecy, is still employed by a health insurance company and can very strongly direct and pass on to that material research. There are too few checks-and-balances in there to make patients and others feel that this is right, that this way of checking is right. I understand how it's supposed to be, but it's not trusted because that medical consultant is ultimately employed by the health insurance company and has a proper direction on the transfer to that material investigation. It is said that this is an extreme means. If you look at the websites of the health insurance companies, the protocols show that that awareness is hardly present. Then you see that it's included in the roadmap, so you'll end up there by yourself. So I think that if we do this, the material research will be normalized over the breadth of the Health Insurance Act, with all the policies that we can now call here and that it will become a permanent part of the health insurance system's control. You ask me how I look at them. This not only puts them in the position of checking legality and effectiveness because the law must function properly or, as Mr Flierman says, because the system must function properly, but it gives them the image of a fraud fighter. That's also gonna do something in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u84	Finally, Mr. Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u85	Then it becomes clear to me. So it is not so much about the health insurance company, it is about the independent doctor and the question of whether they could be even more independent. By the way, it's not like we're going to do this, we've been doing this for 12 years. I've never heard anyone say that's why he doesn't trust the health care provider, the health care provider or the health care provider. I haven't heard a patient say that in those 12 years, but perhaps Mr Kuiper has other experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u86	I've listened to you very carefully. You say that this is the practice from 2006. The question we now have to answer is whether we think this is a good system and whether we should not standardise it further or perhaps take a step back, also in view of the debates we have had here on the electronic patient file and the standards that we considered so important in this house. Mr. Chairman. I've come to the aspect of doctor-patient relationship. After all, there is a breach of medical professional secrecy in that material investigation. For a doctor, that's a sensitive point. The health care provider's hot breath is getting closer and now with the possibility that he may have found that the doctor might have had to prescribe a different treatment. This is what doctors feel like as an influx of their own professionalism and the experience of their autonomy. But also from the patient's point of view, it is not reassuring that a health insurance provider has basically access to his or her medical record and that it can even happen without knowing it exactly. Mr. Chairman. So we're supposed to want this law like this? Are there no other methods to combat care fraud? It would be better if the investigation into care fraud were based on a more independent approach. Perhaps it can be carried out better by others than by the health insurance company. This would also provide a solution to the desired independent position of the physician performing and reporting the material control. In the meantime, there may be other thoughts and other alternatives to combat this care fraud. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to this, but let me make it clear that my group has great hesitation in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u87	I have one more question for Mr Kuiper about the alleged breach of medical professional secrecy that I hear him talking about. It is very common in daily medical practice and also necessary for information to be passed on by one handler to another handler or nurse or even administrative staff. These are all subject to medical professional secrecy, so the transmission of information by an individual covered by medical professional secrecy to another individual covered by that medical professional secrecy is not a breach of medical professional secrecy. That is what is happening here, so, according to Mr Kuiper, where does the breach of medical professional secrecy, as he calls it, take place in this scheme which we have been implementing on a daily basis for 12 years? That would, of course, be very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u88	That's what's happening here. When that material investigation is carried out by a medical practitioner, he enters that file, with the aim of detecting any fraud. He's going to share the data, although we were just talking about this with the health insurance company. Then it can also be the NZa, when data is shared with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Tax Office, the police, etc. For what we considered so important in the electronic patient file, namely that medical data is not shared with people outside the medical profession, the way is cleared here. So there's something going on there that, I think, isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u89	I think it is a very good thing that Mr Kuiper is concerned about this, because medical professional secrecy is extremely important, and my group agrees with that. The fact that medical information, for example, is outside that field of medical professional secrecy is indeed nothing new, but we also know that if this happens in the Tax Office or in the courts, there are other rules that guarantee confidentiality. Of course, that goes for a lot of information that comes to court. That is where medical professional secrecy is broken. If Mr Kuiper takes that view, on the crossing of borders, then I can follow him, but then we will find ourselves in another area where secrecy is also strictly regulated. This also applies to the health insurance company, which is fined up to tens of millions if the information is used for something other than the detection of care fraud. So my group does not share that concern, certainly not balanced against the great importance of combating fraud. My group therefore does not share this concern, certainly balanced against the great importance of the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u90	I do, of course, see the great effort to build guarantees into this. So we are making an extreme effort to get this right. At the same time, it is true that medical professional secrecy is being broken; I think we agree that this is happening. But of course the system also benefits from the confidence that the doctor and the patient know that what they are doing there and what is being registered will remain within a safe fence. I would like to draw attention once again to the parallel with our debate on the electronic patient file. The problem is that that trust is lost if you think that your data can end up anywhere, even with the Tax Office or the Public Prosecutor's Office. You're shaking no. This may not happen with all these safeguards in your view, but that is the message people will pick up as the message that comes from this law: in principle, the data will be anywhere. Everything's tied to everything. Is that what you're supposed to want? Indeed, I am opposed to the question of what is the purpose here and whether there are any other methods. That is the debate on proportionality and subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u91	Finally, very briefly, Mr. Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u92	This is a matter of principle, because if we do not trust the judge with medical information in this context, then we should not trust the judge with medical information in other contexts either. My group has not heard complaints about this from patients and insured persons in the last 12 years. My group trusts the judge with that information. If Mr Kuiper does not do so, then we have to look at how that is done and whether it can be done better. An initiative law may then have to be tabled in the Lower House, because this is a very important matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u93	The next item is not whether or not we trust the judge, but whether or not we trust this method, so whether or not we control this instrumentally, when we know that there are all kinds of interests and all kinds of ways of getting that information into places where you don't want it eventually. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u94	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u95	Thank you, Mr President. The contribution I am making today is partly on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. First of all, our congratulations to Mr Vink of D66 for her maiden speech. I look forward to our discussion today and also at the forthcoming meetings; we have a few more. Mr. Chairman. We have often considered in this Chamber the fact that research shows that people consider having good health to be very important. In fact, being healthy and happy are connected: people are happier when they have good health and vice versa. Not for everyone, being healthy is self-evident, and you don't always have that in hand. Any of us can get sick or have other health problems that can only be solved with medical intervention or other forms of professional care. We believe that every Dutchman should be able to be sure that the necessary care is there when you need it and that it is of good quality, reliable and affordable. We are fortunate that we live in a country with a good health system, as Mr Flierman said. The costs associated with care, we bring together most of them and make a big impact on our income. It is and remains important that we set up the system in such a way that care remains accessible and affordable for everyone. Mr Postema already asked for this during the General Financial Reviews. It is also logical that people only want to contribute to the cost of care if the money we pay for our health insurance is actually spent on care. The government is working to prevent misuse of resources for care, and we very much support that. The bill we are discussing today is intended to contribute to this. The possibilities for the Dutch healthcare authority (NZa) and health insurance companies to combat fraud are being increased. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA and 50PLUS welcome the additional possibilities offered by the bill to the NZa to, for example, allow insured persons to obtain better overviews of notes, own risk and own payments. It is also good that the possibilities for exchanging information with the public authorities involved in the fight against fraud are extended and that this is legally anchored. The Council of State stressed the importance of preferably laying down in law what information is provided to whom and for what purpose. That is also our preference. In any case, it is good that, on the basis of the Volp amendment adopted in the Lower House, it is arranged that this is recorded in an AMvB and that this AMvB is submitted to both chambers of the States General before it enters into force. By examining the bill in the House of Representatives and answering the questions about the bill from this Chamber, it is sufficiently clear for our groups what space the NZa has and what due diligence requirements are respected. We are in favour of these elements of the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. For us, today's debate is about one part of the legislative proposal that is hard on our minds, as is the case with other groups, namely the possibilities offered by the bill to health insurers to break medical confidentiality in the context of the fight against fraud. We find it obvious that health insurers have a responsibility to check the legality and effectiveness of care provided, through the so-called physical control. The legislative proposal provides that health insurers will take care of this regardless of the form of the policy, kind or refund. That this should be carefully and verifiable, we think that is only logical. It is a good thing that health insurance is working with a step-by-step approach in the fight against fraud. Unfortunately, it is inevitable that it may be necessary, in the extreme case, to see someone's medical personal data in the context of the fight against fraud. The violation of medical professional secrecy is an ultimatum medium in the fight against fraud, which can only be dealt with if all other ways of detecting fraud do not provide sufficient information and there is a reasonable suspicion of fraud. What I want to discuss with the Minister is the question of who gets access to the medical personal data and when the insured person is informed of this. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the question of who is allowed to view the medical personal data. Fortunately, the information we received from the Dutch government and health insurance companies (ZN) shows that a lot of fraud can be detected without access to the medical personal data: of the approximately 1 billion declaration rules that health insurance companies have assessed to detect fraud, in about 2,500 cases access to medical personal data has taken place. ZN reports in a June report that in 2017 fraud was detected in 27% of the 1,146 fraud investigations completed. So that's 311 times. The amount involved was EUR 27 million. In 2017, in 77% of cases, fraud was committed by healthcare providers and in 22% by insured persons and pgb budget holders. In 6% of cases, healthcare providers and insured persons have conspired to commit fraud. Unfortunately, this investigation of ZN does not make it possible to ascertain whether the aforementioned cases of fraud required access to the medical personal data. Does the Minister have a visual on this? The legislative proposal provides for access to medical personal data in the context of the fight against fraud to be carried out by the health insurance company's own medical advisers, or by other staff working under the responsibility of a medical adviser. The government considers that these people are covered by medical professional secrecy to be a sufficient guarantee of due diligence, and answers to questions raised by various political groups, including mine. Can the Minister imagine that this is not as obvious and reassuring for many people as it is for the Minister? Does the Minister realise that research repeatedly shows that three out of ten Dutch people are suspicious of health insurers? Can he imagine that the legal regulation of access to medical personal data increases this mistrust? And, if so, does he consider this desirable? Through the written exchange of views with the government, we have tried to ascertain whether alternatives to medical access rights have been seriously considered by the government by the health insurance company's own medical advisor. Our impression is that this is not the case. We'd like to hear from the Minister why this didn't happen. If there are alternatives to the medical right of access by the own medical advisers of health insurance companies, then a logical question to ask is a question. We think so. The NZa itself has launched a number of fraud investigations in recent months: an investigation at ggz providers to see if they are correctly charging burn-out treatment and fraud investigation together with the DeSeizoenen health care facility inspection. In addition, health insurers themselves report in the aforementioned June report that they work together in a special investigation group in major fraud investigations within ZN. Why not add to this group a number of medical advisers who, for all health insurance companies, prefer to assess medical records on fraud aspects, we ask the Minister. The above-mentioned report also states that health insurance companies sometimes transfer fraud cases to the NZa, the detective care fraud of the Inspection SZW, FIOD, the police or the Health and Youth Inspectorate. Like Mr Kuiper, we ask ourselves what due diligence is required. However, it is noteworthy that ZN writes in the aforementioned report that health insurers only transfer fraud investigations if their own sanctions are not sufficient and if the assessment is that the case can be sufficiently documented for an administrative, criminal or disciplinary follow-up. That raises a number of questions. Anti-fraud in health care is fine and necessary, but why does the government put confidence in health insurance companies even more at risk with this bill? The mere fact that medical advisers are able to carry out the research properly and are kept to medical professional secrecy is not sufficient grounds for putting the execution into their hands, especially if there is a great deal of social resistance and alternatives. Why are fraud cases that can only be detected through access to medical personal data not transferred by health insurers to an independent organisation, such as a national fraud team, the NZa or one of the aforementioned organisations? The next question is by whom and how it is assessed whether health insurers have acted carefully in breach of medical professional secrecy. The phrase in ZN's aforementioned report that health insurers only scale up if the case is sufficiently documented does not strengthen confidence in the behaviour of health insurers in the fight against fraud. Surely health insurance companies should carefully record all cases relating to the fight against fraud? We ask the Minister to respond to this point. The NZa supervises the activities of the health insurance companies. How does it assess whether medical professional secrecy has been correctly violated and whether careful action has been taken? How will medical advisers be assessed whether they are right to identify fraud with a healthcare provider and/or insured person? Surely more needs to be done about this than the possibility for those who are accused of fraud to file a complaint. We are curious to see what the Minister's demands are for the health insurance companies and the NZa on these points. We ask him to explain how the supervision of the activities of the health insurance companies and the NZa in the fight against fraud is organised. This brings me to the second issue in the legislative proposal on which we have questions: the moment when the insured person hears that his medical personal data has been accessed by a medical adviser in the context of the fight against fraud. On this point, the PvdA Group has put several questions to the government and the answers are downright disappointing. Take, for example, the answer to the question about the likelihood of anxiety on the part of the insured person and the possible damage in the relationship of trust between the insured person and the healthcare provider. the health insurance provider. We assume that the relationship of trust is under more pressure or pressure. more damaged if the insured person is at the earliest! After three months of hearing that the health insurance provider has access to his or her medical personal data, the insured person will have access to it on the day of breach of professional secrecy or will be asked for prior authorisation. The government answers questions on this subject that it sees no reason for great concern if the insured person is properly informed of the purpose of the inspection and of the consequences of the inspection that has taken place. We believe that the Minister thinks this is too light, that it is not so simple and rational and that good ex post explanation will not be enough. The PvdA and 50PLUS do not find the argument that the fraud investigation can be damaged if the access to the medical personal data is reported to the insured person on the day of inspection. Should the health insurer not be obliged to set up fraud investigations in such a way that all relevant information and other traces of fraud can be secured on the day of inspection? This also applies to other matters where the privacy of citizens or companies is violated, such as a search warrant? Do health insurance companies suspend payment if there is a suspicion of fraud? If so, isn't the insured person aware that something's going on? If not, is it not likely that sums already paid will be difficult to recover? How does the Minister see this? Then what is the effect on trust in the healthcare system and the health insurers? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Fight against fraud can contribute to keeping affordable, high-quality and accessible care available to all. The government's efforts to strengthen the fight against fraud by means of this legislative proposal and to make further demands on all concerned, strongly support the PvdA and 50PLUS groups. The proposal to place the right of access in the hands of health insurers' medical advisers raises many questions. This also applies to the moment when insured persons hear that medical personal data have been accessed in the context of the fight against fraud. We understood in the run-up to this debate that the Minister intends to strengthen a number of issues in the legislative proposal through a novelle. We would like to hear from the Minister what changes he intends to make to the legislative proposal and whether he is prepared to include the points that we suggest. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u96	I will not ask what has happened since this bill was submitted on behalf of the Labour Party by a previous cabinet. Mrs Nooren is now in this Chamber, so there is another view of this law. I understand. I want to ask another question. Mrs Nooren mentioned the secondary medical professional secrecy. Mrs Nooren says that we are now going to place medical information in the hands of the medical advisor. But we're not gonna do that now, because we've been doing that for 12 years. This has never led to a problem, nor to mistrust among those concerned. There is now an objection to the fact that doctors' employees are covered by derived professional secrecy. In itself, I can follow what that's about. But how generic is Mrs Nooren's objection? This is what we do every day with hundreds of thousands of employees in hospitals, including secretaries and drivers. They all see and get medical information. They're all covered by derived professional secrecy. That's what we trust and we've been doing for a long time. I have never heard an objection from the Labour Party or an initiative law on this matter. So why do you suddenly have to work with a doctor's staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u97	Can I ask you a question? Am I correct in understanding that drivers are also given medical information? Did I hear you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u98	Thank you for this question, Mr President. Of course, there are people who transport patients, for example ambulance drivers. They are given medical information and are therefore subject to derived professional secrecy. They can't violate that secret. No one protests against it, and no one therefore distrusts a driver. So my question is: why now suddenly this problem with secondary staff of the medical adviser, who gets medical information but is a doctor, is BIG registered, is covered by disciplinary law and should respect medical professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u99	Two cases. Firstly, Mr Bruijn says that there has been no objection to this bill. You said there has been no unrest and people have not complained about it. That's what you said at first...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u100	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u101	Mr Bruijn says that there is no objection to this bill and that there is no concern about it. There is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u102	Mr President, I apologise, but I did not say that. I didn't say there was no objection to this bill. I have said that I have never heard any objection to the fact that the medical expert's employees in all kinds of healthcare establishments are also covered by derived medical professional secrecy. I've never heard any objection to that. It would also have far-reaching consequences if you were serious about that objection, because then we would have to look at all these health care institutions and put doctors there everywhere. I don't think that's possible, something we consider important in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u103	The moment someone is in care, you enter into a care agreement between the healthcare provider and the person who gets care. In the context of the treatment, it is established that information can be shared with other healthcare providers. So whoever comes into care gives permission to share the medically necessary care with others. In essence, this is a private-law relationship between the healthcare provider and the care provider. That is a completely different situation, where only that information is shared that is needed in the light of the care and the role someone needs. So the driver isn't gonna get to see the whole medical file. The driver only gets to hear those things that are relevant to the activities he carries out in the context of the provision of care. If, with regard to the person receiving care, the doctor cannot do it alone and others are needed, information may be shared in that light. By the way, the privacy law also states that it is only about that information that is necessary for the actions you have to take. It is very important for everyone in the Netherlands that information that is available in the entire medical file is not made available to everyone. Characteristic of this bill is that it is very poorly documented what information it is about and what the medical advisor does with that information. Mr Kuiper has already mentioned this. No prior authorisation is requested for in this case then, even in a different role, that insured. That is a very different position than when you provide private-law care between healthcare provider and healthcare user.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u104	That's exactly how it's arranged here, because it's in the policy. The policy is signed by the patient for agreement. This is a contract between two parties, which states that in the event of suspected fraud information can be transferred and then only that information necessary for that investigation. It should also be used only on the penalty of fines which will bring an average health insurance provider to the brink of bankruptcy very quickly. And there has never been a problem there either. So the situation Mrs Nooren is describing for that contractual relationship between the patient and the health care provider is identical to what we are talking about here. And in 12 years, there has never been a problem, not even a trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u105	This bill points to a direction in which literally the health insurance company is given rights enshrined in the law to see the medical record. We are here assessing this law in the light of whether sufficient alternatives have been considered. My group has asked the Minister some pressing questions about this since the proposal was submitted in this Chamber. That was also the case when we, at least the other side, were part of the coalition, and that has not changed until today's debate. Since it is a legislative proposal, we are assessing whether this is the best way to combat fraud. I also asked the Minister why trust between the health insurance companies and the insured is put under such pressure if alternatives are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u106	Very briefly, finally, Mr. Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u107	I can follow that last question very well and I am also curious about the answer. A small correction: this law does not provide for the health insurance provider to have the right to look into that status. That is what the health insurance companies have been doing for 12 years, and this is being used. This legislative proposal ensures that it is aligned in the context of legality for all policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u108	In this interaction between Mrs Nooren and Mr Bruijn, I am trying to clarify exactly what is the difference between these different situations of right of access. Do I understand Mrs Nooren correctly that she says that in all these other cases it is the patient's concern and that that is the only reason that there is a right of access and that in this case it is about combating fraud, which is not necessarily about the patient's interest, perhaps indirectly but not about his or her care situation? Is that the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u109	That's right. There is the difference that it is about your own health condition and secondly that you give prior consent to it in the light of your own care interests. Mr Ganzevoort spoke about what is central. Well, the importance of the individual care user is central. And in this case, in this bill, the sustainability of the entire system is central.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u110	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I'm looking at the minister. Will the Minister be able to respond in the first term? Very briefly, I understand. I'll give you the cathedral. It's coming. Oh, you want a very short suspension! I didn't get that. I thought you wanted to talk a little bit or something. Aha! That's good. But that thing needs to be put down anyway. Suspended till 10:25, is that okay? Seven minutes? The meeting is adjourned for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u111	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I listened very well and also with great pleasure to all the contributions this evening. I note that many Members this evening are actually expressing opinions on a number of the same issues. In fact, these are also themes that are exchanged not only here, but also outside the Binnenhof, between professionals and in society. One of these issues concerns the possibility for insurers to carry out physical checks with a healthcare provider who does not have a payment agreement with an insurer. In other words, if the proposal we are discussing this evening has the force of law, it is an ultimate step in the control process, under the responsibility of the insurer's medical adviser, that the insured person's medical record can be seen. Most of the care is contracted and has a payment agreement, where the insurer can already carry out such checks. Once the law has been passed, this is possible even if there is no payment agreement. This means that the bill goes directly to the patient, who then submits it to the insurer. Mr. Chairman. Combating fraud is an important issue for the cabinet, but also for everyone who is speaking here tonight. I think this law will help. Care must remain affordable. The contribution paid by the insured person can only be paid once. We must therefore ensure that premiums are not spent on unlawful care. I therefore fully support the purpose of the legislative proposal: physical checks may also be necessary in the absence of a payment agreement in order to check whether the declared performance has actually been delivered, and whether that performance was the most appropriate given the health status of the insured person. It's necessary to detect fraud. In addition, the existence of this control option alone can work preventively. I think so, and I heard that preventive action in Mr Bruijn's speech. Mr. Chairman. I do not hear anyone questioning the need to combat fraud. However, a number of concerns are raised in the debate, outside and in here. At the heart of these concerns is the question of whether the legislative proposal provides adequate protection for the insured, the citizen. This concerns different aspects, such as: when will the patient be informed that his file is being examined? And: are there sufficient safeguards for the independence of the insurer's medical advisor, so that the medical professional secrecy and thus the privacy of the insured person are respected? Mr. Chairman. Some of you spoke tonight about the proportionality requirement. As far as I am concerned, the purpose of the bill is still valid. The question has been asked: is it proportional? Around 1 billion claims are made to health insurers. It is necessary for them, the insurers, to check that these declarations are correct. That is also their legal task. Where there's a lot of money, there's also fraud. Every euro of fraud is too much for me. The overall extent of errors and fraud in the care sector is not clear. However, we do know what health insurance companies recover from false declarations and what they find to be fraud. For example, in 2017, after ex-post controls, insurers recovered over 370 million euros of unjustified claims from healthcare providers and 27 million euros of actual fraud was detected. Around 2,500 detailed checks are carried out each year with inspection by all insurers. So that's just a very small part. However, material control by health insurance companies is much more effective in finding unlawful acts. The bill also allows for this form of control by uncontracted healthcare providers without a payment agreement. As far as I am concerned, the proportionality of the legislative proposal has been defined. Mr. Chairman. I have previously indicated in my answers to questions to your Chamber how information and assurance have been developed both at the moment and in the legislative proposal. This is partly through self-regulation of health insurers. I must say that I have good faith in this self-regulation. But given that this is about privacy-sensitive matters, about medical data, I see reason to say: let's legally anchor that. That is what the world looked like at the time of drafting the proposal, about five years ago. The importance of combating fraud has not been reduced, quite the contrary. But what has changed in my estimation over time is the weight assigned to privacy. I think that's right. The advent of the General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR, contributes to this. More and more we are aware, especially if medical data is exchanged, that if privacy may be at stake, a solid legal basis is needed. I believe that the present legislative proposal does give that basis on many points. However, in view of tonight's debate and the views I hear in the field, I also think that the legislative proposal can be improved on a number of points, at least three or four. I'd like to consider that. Mr. Chairman. Having heard the debate tonight, I would like to mention those points. Firstly, the independent position of the medical adviser. This independence has now been secured in the form of self-regulation by health insurers. But wouldn't it be more appropriate to ensure that independence legally? That's one point. Secondly, access to the medical record. That's a point that didn't go so far tonight, but I'd like to mention it anyway. Access to the medical records can now take place under the responsibility of the medical consultant. I can imagine that this inspection of the treatment or medical file should always be carried out by the medical adviser himself. That is the second point. The third point is the question of informing the insured person. That too is an important subject. In the light of the amendment to item No. 28 by Mrs Klever in the Lower House, the proposal now states that the insured person is informed within three months after access to the file. I can imagine that it would be even better to record that it is happening as soon as possible. This three-month period could perhaps be reduced further if there is no objection from the investigation to informing the insured person much more quickly. That is the third point. Fourthly, I see the advantages of creating a legal basis to lay down the rule on what the information to the insured person must consist of at least. Mrs Nooren, among others, spoke about this. Is it just that his file has been consulted? Or is it also the conclusion of the medical adviser or its justification, for example in the situation of entering civil proceedings? Mr. Chairman. These are points I would like to look at in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u113	I welcome this exchange of views with the Minister and the route he intends to take in order to find out more about matters. On the third point, I do have a few questions. In my view, that was the most important point of this evening, when I heard from all sides whether it should not be a matter of prior consent, unless there are very serious arguments against it. All I hear is a gradual difference: instead of three months, it gets a little shorter than three months. I cannot imagine the Minister taking away the great objections of the Chamber. If the purpose of the review is to bring this Chamber along, it seems to me that more is needed than just shortening the three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u114	The point in the bill is those three months. That's what's been arranged now. I would like to consider this point. That is to a shorter period afterwards, but I have heard you very well: would there be any objection from a research perspective to doing it in advance? Would that frustrate the investigation? Would that lead to a handshake between the insured and the healthcare provider? By the way, I am still talking about informing. I've also heard parties talking tonight about "allow, before..." I think that is a step too far, but I would like to consider it and I would also like to motivate why there should be information as early as possible so that the insured person knows and can exercise his rights properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u115	I also welcome the movement the Minister is making. Thank you for that. I have a question about the first point, the independent position of the medical controller or consultant. That is what you want to consider. Could that mean, for example, that he will not be employed by the health insurance company? Is that a direction you'd like to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u116	No, you haven't heard me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u117	No, you haven't said anything yet, which is why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u118	I have said that I would like to consider that point. As far as I am concerned, this is about the basis for this independent position. This is now regulated by self-regulation of health insurers, in the control protocols of the health insurers themselves. I would like to lift that up in legislation so that it becomes clear in the legislation ratified by the Chamber. This can be done, for example, in the BIG registration of the medical adviser, the professional autonomy of the medical adviser and the fact that the inspection supervises the working methods of the medical adviser. But you do hear me arguing that I would like to keep the medical advisor in place. I think the medical consultant is part of the insurance company's work. I think it should do its job within the limits of the insurer. So you do not hear me say, as has been argued this evening, that the medical adviser must have a position outside the insurer. I think it is very logical that, where an agreement is concluded between the insurer and the insured, the insurer checks whether care has been given in a lawful manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u119	Mr. Kuiper, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u120	I did hear that say that tonight. Mrs Nooren should continue on her own, but I thought it was a very useful point. What I also think is a sensible point is that due diligence requirements should be introduced to scale up to the very last resort, so that it is really clear that this is an extreme means, which is only used when there are no other methods left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u121	Sure. That is also the point. I note that in this evening's debate we are not actually discussing the current formal and substantive control steps. If I am going to consider it, and I would like to do so, I would like to point out even more clearly how this care is achieved in the current practice. There is also an element of proportionality in this. It's not like we're suddenly jumping from nothing to a hundred and we're always going to have an insurance company ask his medical advisor if he'd like to take a look at the file. There are all kinds of steps going through, first in the formal control, later in the material control, before you get to the question of whether you can access a medical file.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u122	Thank you to the Minister for his reflection. However, our group has difficulty in considering whether it would be possible to find out more quickly. It is essential for us that the patient is involved in the prior inspection of the medical record, not afterwards, or'something faster than three months'. Could the Minister comment briefly on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u123	That point has also been raised by Mr. Ganzevoort, I thought, and answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u124	I know that it has been mentioned by Mr Ganzevoort. The answer did not reassure us. So I wanted to mention it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u125	That's annoying, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u126	I would like to make one point. The Minister has indicated that he will consider the bill. At least we still have to talk about the extent to which we agree. He mentioned a number of points. I do not want to have a discussion at this point where the Minister is taken to the decimal place on all these points. He's gonna consider it. He's pretty much figured out what's going on in this room right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u127	I have expanded my mind a little on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u128	Expanding resources in this room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u129	Don't jump to any wrong conclusions, Mr. President. It's three months from now. Shorter than three months should, I think, be possible, unless there is an objection from a research perspective. I understand very well from Mr Ganzevoort, from Mrs Vink's group and from others that it is being asked whether, for the sake of building and maintaining a good relationship between insured and insurer, it would not be better to have prior information about the fact that the medical file is being consulted if the investigation does not oppose it. I would like to come back to the point that I would like to consider on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u130	Mr. Don and then Mrs. Nooren. And then I want to go back to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u131	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. I commend your wisdom, Minister, for your reflection. That is what we, as a group of the SP, are pleased about. Thank you. I have a little question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u132	Oh, I was hoping this was the last thing you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u133	I always have the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u134	After the chairman, right, Mr. Don?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u135	Of course, Mr President, correction: you always have the last word. The Minister talks about legally anchoring the position of the health insurance doctor. This means that it is not now legally anchored and that it is now bound by a regulation. What does this mean for his activities to have access to medical records? Does he do that after following protocol? Is he even entitled to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u136	Sure. At the moment, since 2006, a very large part of care work is carried out in this way. I read, and I have heard this in Mr Bruijn's speech, that this is actually without objections. That's a good way to do it. I would like to make another comment on this in a moment. But this is a common practice. For the vast majority of the care, namely for the contracted care in which there is a payment agreement and for that part of the uncontracted care in which there is a payment agreement, which is thus by far the largest part of the care, this is a stable, usual practice, which is well-liked. That is why I would like to complete this procedure with this legislative proposal. But I hear you very well here tonight. That is why I would like to consider a number of points, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u137	Finally, Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u138	The Minister states that it is actually working well now. Then why does he want a legal anchoring of the health insurance doctor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u139	So it's not about the health insurance doctor, it's about the medical consultant. Independence is now secured in self-regulation and in the insurance supervisory protocol. I think it is stronger to make a legal basis for this, because the professional autonomy and the supervisory position of the inspection will then be better controlled. That is why it seemed stronger to me, and I think that guarantees are enough for the insured. Seems like a good way to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u140	Mrs. Nooren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u141	Thank you to the Minister for taking another look at it. I fully agree with him that it is very valuable to legally anchor this. Healthcare insurers operate on the basis of their own or protocols adopted by ZN. I have two questions for the Minister. Is it possible to talk to health insurance companies to act in line with their thoughts, to experiment with a reasonable period of time and their impact on the fight against fraud? In this way, the process of optimization does not stand still. My second question is whether the Minister can say anything about the deadlines on which he intends to take a next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u142	I will say something about that too, because we have an arrangement for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u143	Mr. Chairman. First, Mrs Nooren's first question. Mr Ganzevoort's contribution contained a comment on an evaluation. Can you compare the situation in which uncontracted care takes place and the consent of the insured person is required with a situation in which contracted care is provided that does not require the explicit consent of the insured person? If you put those two situations side by side, you could gain insight into the usefulness of this control. That says something about the materiality or proportionality of the proposal. I want to pick up that glove. I want to see how I can put that in the picture. That, I think, is the answer to Mrs Nooren's question. I'm gonna need the help of the insurance companies. So I'm gonna have to check; they're probably listening, so they can turn on the wheels. That's one. Then there is the question of time limits. If I can prove it right, the Chamber will allow me to consider the content of the bill and is prepared to enforce the bill. I would like to give you a letter in which I would like to clarify the points I made in my speech. I'd like to provide a timetable for that. I'm thinking months, not years. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u144	No, Mr. Ganzevoort, Mrs. Nooren's interruption was really the last one. I'd like to leave it at that. Minister, you're asking the Chamber to uphold the bill because you're going to consider it. We just had a discussion about that. Let me take a look around and note that there is no objection. The bill is under arrest. For some time now, we have been using deadlines to ensure that we do not face a bill that has once been enforced in six years' time. In principle, the deadline is three months with a possible extension of another three months. At least that's possible. In the end, you'll have about six months. I think it is very sensible that you should send a letter in which you explain in detail the points on which you wish to consider. Do you realize that time goes faster than you think? We're close to New Year's Eve. Hours, years, days, months, flying like a shadow. That's what you're gonna get. I understand you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u145	If this is the conclusion of the Chamber, I am very grateful that I am going to have this space and I am going to start tonight, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u146	Well, I'd say don't overdo it. Thank you. Then this bill has been held until further notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-17-eerstekamer-2.u147	I'll suspend the meeting until tomorrow morning. We have an information meeting tomorrow morning at 9:00 a.m. on integrity. The plenary starts at 11.15 a.m. for those who are not present at the information meeting on integrity, where everyone is very welcome.
