ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Fritsma and De Graaf on the return of Dutch criminals from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten, Section 34044. I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported by Marina Vondeling in the defence of their initiative bill in trade union K, also welcome, employee of the PVV group. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. They will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this legal process is planned at a later date and, of course, in consultation with the initiators. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP for his contribution to the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to begin by thanking Mr Fritsma and Mr De Graaf for having made this debate possible by submitting this initiative law. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the undoubtedly useful advice they will be giving in the near future. I can't promise the petitioners that I'm going to support the law. That's not a very good chance. But I do have some questions, so who knows where we're gonna be in the next few days? The criticism of this bill is quite considerable. This concerns, for example, whether this bill complies with the Constitution of the Netherlands, with the Statute for the Kingdom and with international treaties. These are questions that the Council of State has also put very strongly in its opinion. The authors did respond politically, saying that they do not agree with that criticism of the Council of State, but they have not yet really responded in terms of substance, while the Council of State's opinion is rather harsh, namely that there are strong doubts as to whether the proposed system of return is an appropriate, necessary and proportionate means. The Council of State therefore recommends reconsidering the proposal and not submitting it in this way. This is a legislative process, so it must be done very seriously. Criticism that comes up, including constitutional criticism, must be addressed seriously. So I also ask the authors, in their first term, to give a substantive answer to the criticisms of the Council of State in addition to a political explanation. I am also glad that the Secretary of State is here, because I think that the authors are quite rightly addressing a problem. When it comes to young people from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten in the Netherlands, you can see that they are far too high in crime statistics. This also applies to people from Suriname, originally from Morocco, Turkey and other migrant groups. I also believe that this shows that in our country migration policy, integration policy and security policy are not in order. I am just afraid that this bill by Mr Fritsma and Mr De Graaf is not going to change that very much. On his many visits to Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, the Secretary of State has of course heard stories about people, young people who are put on a plane to the Netherlands at a time when they have no future on the islands or cannot be maintained. Then we are in a difficult situation, because people who have no future on Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin also have no future in the Netherlands, especially if they do not speak the language, especially if they have no education and especially if they have slipped into a criminal world. Can the Secretary of State give us some more information on this? Is that a single person with whom that happens? Is that structural? Is there a policy behind this from the government of Curaçao, Aruba or Saint Martin? And if so, what can we do about it? For I am firmly convinced that within the Kingdom as four countries we must assist each other to solve problems, but I am also convinced that we cannot put problems on the plane to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u3	I very much welcome this question from Mr Van Raak to the Secretary of State. But now I can remember a bill of a year or two ago from myself, which wanted to prevent these kind of young people, who you could see coming in the wrong direction, from settling in the Netherlands. Then the SP voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u5	Has that changed with the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u6	No, because there was a lot of criticism about that under state law. We have had that debate here. I do not think that we should solve this with a law, but that we can solve it by making agreements between the governments in our Kingdom. Why do governments of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten decide to put young people, who have no future on the island, on the plane to the Netherlands? That is a political consideration. I don't know how often that happens. I do not know whether Mr Bosman knows or has figures. But if that is a government policy, we can also ask those governments to stop doing so. We might even be able to put a little pressure on you to stop doing that. We do not need a law for that, we need political agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Van Raak has been on this dossier longer than I have. I find it interesting that Mr Van Raak will come up with: then we will make arrangements with Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. Mr Van Raak also knows how difficult and difficult this is, especially with regard to this kind of problem. It would even be wise to put these things into a law, especially since that legislation is also present on Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u9	If Mr Van Raak says "I'm going to wait to have conversations with Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin and I expect the Dutch government to do so," we all know what will come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes, I agree with Mr Bosman in part. So we see that the Kingdom bites itself in the tail. That was the case with Mr Bosman's initiative law, and that is the case with the initiative law of Mr Fritsma and Mr De Graaf. I'm afraid none of that is possible in the present Kingdom. That is why I am also pleased that I, together with Mr Bosman, have made a proposal to revise the Statute, to have different relations in the Kingdom, where countries can make agreements on the basis of equivalence, a commonest structure or whatever you want to call it. In such a construction you can of course make very good agreements and this kind of abuses can also be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u11	I hear Mr Van Raak express a great deal of criticism of this bill. Of course you can, but it's hypocritical. He says the bill is not politically sustainable. That is bullshit: it is sustainable. On the islands of Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten there is a similar arrangement that allows European Dutch to return to the Netherlands if their behaviour gives rise to this. That's similar to the law before us. Why haven't we heard from the SP about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u12	Well, then it is very unfortunate that Mr Kops has missed all the debates on this issue. Because the SP just happened to have made a plan with the VVD for a whole new Statute, for whole new relationships within the Kingdom, whereby countries make agreements with each other on the basis of equivalence, whereby the Netherlands, but also the other countries, can be liberated from the tight corset of the Kingdom. So yes, I cannot serve Mr Kops better there, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u13	If, for example, we are talking about legal acceptability, does Mr Van Raak agree with the PVV that it is primarily a question of political choice? At the SP there is no political will to support this bill and thereby send convicted Antilleans back to their island. The question is then what the SP does want. Then what is the SP going to do with all those convicted Antilleans who, after their punishment, walk freely in the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u14	Let me be honest: this bill is a bit of a mess. That is why I have also asked the authors to give a substantive response, not a political response, to the criticism of the Council of State. When it comes to security policy and integration policy, Mr Kops also knows that the SP has been very critical of this in recent years and has been very critical of it for a very long time, even when the PVV was still in diapers as a movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u15	You can respond to that, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u16	This is total bullshit. Mr Van Raak is just going around it. I can't get an answer to the question. So the conclusion is that the SP simply chooses sides for the perpetrators, for the convicted Antilleans, and leaves the victims in the lurch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Kops is a bit of a blabbermouth after all. I asked the Minister, and especially the Secretary of State, how big the problem is. How often are young criminals from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten put on a plane to the Netherlands without speaking the language and without training, where they end up in this country in the criminal circuit? Is the problem big? And above all: is the problem structural? Is the policy from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten that they put their problems on the plane to the Netherlands? I asked the Secretary of State to make that political, if that is the case. We do not need a law for that, we need politics to put pressure on the government of the islands, on the other countries of the Kingdom, just to stop doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. There is a delegation from the Aruban Parliament in the Chair who will follow this debate. I'd like to welcome you. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me congratulate the authors on the fact that they have put forward an initiative proposal. Let's be clear about this. We sometimes grumble at the PVV that they say a lot of "no, no, no," but now that they come up with a proposal, we have to seriously weigh that up. It adorns every parliamentarians. They have taken the time and effort to come up with a concrete proposal on which the Chamber is now debating it. Very good. That brings me directly to the proposal itself. I agree with the observation that there is a problem, an overrepresentation of young people and others from the islands in this Dutch part of the Kingdom. That's a problem we'd like to solve with each other. It is true, as Mr Van Raak says, that children are getting on a plane or being put on a plane who think they have a future here, even though they can barely fight it for each other on the islands. In the complicated society on this side of the lake, it becomes even more difficult, which makes them quite quickly in the hands of people who really only want to get more trouble with them. If we are discussing an initiative law, it is quite a task, but we must take it. Of course, we must also look at what exactly the problem is and what we could do about it. As far as the CDA group is concerned, this is a bit too blunt an axe that indicates: we have one solution, send the cluppie back. I think it's important, when we deal with a law, to follow the steps. What is the reason, according to the PVV, that there is an over-representation of this group in crime? What's the explanation according to them? Maybe there will be much more of a solution that we can achieve with each other. Measures must always be proportionate. I will come to the criticism of the Council of State in a moment. That's what I'm struggling with. What this proposal actually shows is that no steps can be taken. There is no mention at all of any kind of prevention. That could therefore lead to someone who has been in the Netherlands for years and with whom everything else is fine, simply having to leave because of the proverbial roll of licorice because he commits a crime. That can never happen in a rule of law. I want to hear from the initiators what they think of the educational character of our youth law. Or does that suddenly no longer apply to young people coming from Aruba, Curaçao or Saint Martin? We will then have two youth rights: one that does justice to the fact that someone is still young and perhaps doing things, and another right for someone who happens to be from an island. I don't think we can, and we shouldn't want to. I also understand from the proposal that it is the intention of the initiators that everyone who comes from the islands and in the Netherlands is irrevocably sentenced to imprisonment, juvenile detention or community service should be returned immediately. But they must be punished first. That's a little weird, too. Then the question arises: why would you do that? Why first prepare someone in this part of the Kingdom for return to society, because from day one is meant to be our detention? In fact, this cabinet has put forward all kinds of initiatives to improve this step-by-step return to our society. Why would you do that if you said after that: we're done, out? That's not possible. I would like to hear from the PVV members today how they look at that. Then why don't you just bring them back to the islands and say, "Well, that's what you're doing?" And yet one more blow, Mr President: the criticism of the Council of State. With Mr Van Raak, I say that the reply to the criticism of the Council of State is actually very brief. It is indeed only a political judgment, and that is a bit of an easy contest when we deal with a law. The Council of State concludes that there is no serious justification which could legally justify an admission or retirement scheme. They also say that the bill is not proportionate and not necessary. In all honesty, from the CDA's point of view, I would like to say that I still have the courage to fight with the Council of State on the point that it cannot be justified at all, and that it could be proportional on parts, and that it might perhaps be necessary to take a step on parts. But as the proposal now stands, it actually takes everything at the same time, unmotivatedly, with this conclusion. So I would really like to hear from the initiators what the gradations could be. How could you make this proposal proportionate? How can you motivate what the justification is in? I think that is the only way we could have a positive opinion on this bill. Can the initiators, and let me put it a little harshly, take the trouble today to really take a serious look at what the Council of State has said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u20	I hear a lot of criticism from Mrs Van Toorenburg. That surprises me a little because the CDA did not speak in favour of such a law very long ago. I can still hear Mirjam saying strong: sending criminal Antillean youth back, that's a good idea. Anyway, that aside, because that's not what the question is about. The point is what the CDA does want. What kind of law does the CDA have in mind? Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke at the beginning of her speech on the roll of licorice. What if this bill was just about serious crimes? Would it be CDA for this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u21	That would be the first important step, indeed. Mr Strong, who I have followed up on this dossier, has said a great deal about it, even at the time of 10-10-10, which is an understanding for us. We have indicated that you should work on a kingdom law. That's what it starts with. You have to do it with each other. Then you have to make sure that you do it in steps, as we always know a conductive scale. Secondly, I think that there is a good thing to say to fit in with reciprocity, but then make it really reciprocal. See how you can solve the problem. Put some prevention in there. We have said this many times, also in our criticism of the bill that came from the VVD. I think it is important that you make a proposal, but then you have to make sure that there is a proposal that is feasible. If you make a proposal that you know you can't do in advance, it's fun for the stage and then it can be handsome even for the stage, but then we end up with nothing. That's where we stand now. We are going to debate for hours today, I think, a law that we know is not feasible. And I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u22	This law is indeed enforceable. When we talk about a state law, I would point out that a state law also requires the consent of the parliaments of the islands. And we all know it's not gonna happen. If I listen to Mrs Van Toorenburg so well, is she prepared to amend this bill if necessary in order to make it acceptable to her?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u23	The status of the law cannot be amended. We think there should be a state law. By definition, that makes it impossible. Then we have a completely different approach, because we do believe that prevention should be included. We also think you should put a bowl in it. There's got to be a future perspective. So there are a lot of elements of which we as CDA say: it cannot be done this way. There is a problem and it is a pity that this is another missed opportunity to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u25	In fact, I have already said a lot in the interruption. So I would really like a better explanation from the initiators as to why this blunt axe is acceptable, also looking at what crimes have been committed, by whom. For example, how long does someone live in the Netherlands? What's the reason something went wrong? We would all like to involve that. Then you will also get to the point of reciprocity. The initiators say, in response to various questions from members of this Chamber, that the proposal was not made because of reciprocity. And yet, when you read the proposal, and certainly the answer to the questions, you come across the argumentation of reciprocity every time. What is it? Are the initiators doing it because the islands can do it and is there a good reason for that? Or isn't reciprocity important? Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the state law. I can leave that part out of it. Actually, I've already made my conclusion on interrupting. It is a good step to see what we can do about it, but I think that as a parliament we should listen to the Council of State. If we just say "we want this and even if it can't legally, we want it anyway," we're still at point zero at the end of the song.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mrs Van Toorenburg mentioned the sliding scale. We have already read in the media that she says there is no distinction between different crimes. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree with the PVV that it is true that this sliding scale is intended for this purpose and that this sliding scale also distinguishes between offences of less than six years' duration and offences of more than six years' duration? That distinction is indeed there, contrary to what she has said in the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u27	A slight attempt has been made to make it still a little bit fair, but it does not fit in with the way in which we organise it in legislation. I think the initiators and the PVV know that very well. So today we are having another debate on a major problem and we are putting a solution in the middle that is not feasible. Actually, that's a bit of a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u28	What is so unfortunate is the hypocrisy in this Chamber of many parties, including the CDA. Mrs Van Toorenburg did not just say that this is a pointless debate, but well, that was the bottom line. When I listen to her like that, I wonder: did she actually read the pieces? For example, the response of the initiators. Granted, they're going to respond to it, of course, but I've read them. When we talk about reciprocity, it simply says on several occasions that reciprocity is not the purpose of this bill, but it is precisely that hypocrisy shown by parties such as the CDA and other parties who say "no, this law is terrible, all this cannot be done', although there is a similar arrangement on the islands. And there's never gonna be a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u29	It's fascinating to see what's happening here. We have a legal system, we have treaties, we have agreements with the islands, and then we're going to try to solve a problem. And now a number of initiators come up with a proposal that is not legally enforceable. And what do I hear from the PVV? Almost stomping, already agitated, just in the interruption: it must and it will and it must and it will. All of a sudden, everybody's hypocritical, and then we're gonna kick our feet. If you want to solve a problem, you have to look at the legal possibilities. Then you put a proposal in the middle that is feasible and then we will have taken a step together. What we have now is why I think it is important that we have this debate. However, it is a debate on an unenforceable law, but with the desire to find a solution. That is why I think it is right that we have guests today, because I am sure that everyone will want to tackle this problem in the end. Because in the end all people deserve a good future and not one in crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you, Mr President. On February 14, 2007, we are talking about the Cabinet-Balkenende III, then Minister Verdonk submitted her bill entitled Additional measures concerning, among other things, the return of Antillean and Aruban youth at risk. And it was a nice proposal, certainly a good start. But shortly afterwards, after the office of the cabinet-Balkenende IV, Minister Vogelaar withdrew the law. And that is typical: look away, do not dare to intervene, keep daddies and wet. Because, at the time, the argument was, the cabinet wanted to focus more on prevention. Well, in popular terms, it's just a weak bite. After all, what do you think has become of this so-called prevention? Pretty little. See the crime figures. In it, the Antilleans are overrepresented. They are no less than six times more likely to be suspected of a crime than European Dutch. Mr. Chairman. Let me give you an example. Do you perhaps know the Noorderhagen group? That's a group of about 25 young criminals of mainly Antillean origin. Active in Enschede, murder and manslaughter, gun possession, drug trafficking, forced prostitution, you name it all. Many people don't even dare on the street anymore, because they're intimidated by drug-dealing Antilleans. It's one hell of a mess. And what did the mayor do there, for example? Well, a few years ago, he declared a co-operation ban. Yes, I'm sure you're aware of it. It's a conspiracy ban. Yeah, of course that's not a real solution. That comes down to a good conversation and a rebuttal finger. Yeah, of course, none of that's gonna work for these tough-ass criminals. Because it's also a recidivism among Antilleans that's the highest. As many as 38% repeat within six years. And so you see, nothing, but nothing at all teaches this scum from their punishment. A bad youth, had no chance, and even slavery dragged these criminals into it, especially so as not to have to look for the cause of their behavior on their own and then to be able to repeat themselves. For this hard learning, of course, only one real solution is possible, and that is to condemn it, to punish it and then to squeeze it out of the country. Every sane person must agree with that. Look, and here comes the PVV with a bill: the Law Returning Criminal Antilleans. And with this law of members Fritsma and De Graaf, convicted first-generation Curaçaoians, Arabs and Saint-Maartenians can be returned to their own island after serving their sentence. Because now, honestly, if you can't behave here in this country, what are you doing here? Then go away and stay away. In other words, why would you insist on keeping convicted Antilleans here? Who can explain that? Well, the benevolent Antilleans here in this country certainly don't, because they too are all done with criminal co-Antilliaans and to a large extent support this PVV proposal. I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. With this law Fritsma/De Graaf the PVV wants to protect Dutch society and public order. And as the initiators themselves write in their explanatory memorandum: "This bill places the protection of victims of violence, robbery and other serious crimes at the heart of the matter, by expelling violent and oppressive Antilleans. Safety has been chosen, and it has been chosen for the benefit of victims." In addition, this bill makes use of the'sliding scale' I have already said in the interruptions. Expulsion is then determined by a combination of the length of stay in the Netherlands and the amount of penalty imposed. That is to say: the shorter someone stays in the Netherlands, the sooner that person can be deported. And for someone who has been in the Netherlands for less than three years, a prison sentence of only one day is enough to actually proceed to expulsion. Where Verdonk's 2007 proposal was limited to young people under 24 years of age, this proposal by the PVV makes no distinction on the basis of age. And that's a good thing, because Antilleans at a later age still score horribly high in crime rates. In short, there is a law here that applies to young and old. Equality, I would say, must appeal to the other parties. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is that this is now decisive. This is a bit different from all the weak bites in this room. The weak bite of, for example, the SP, who in the category "deduce attention and downplay" has asked in writing what is being done to support Antilliaan-Dutch parents in raising their child. How offtopic do you want it? However, to respond briefly to this nonsense: firstly, there are already enough bodies that can help with education, for example. Then the conclusion is: either this aid has not been called for or aid has not been allowed to benefit. In both cases, the need for this proposal is underlined once again. Secondly, please stop with all these pathetic arguments like "bad youth" and "poor opportunity." Those are non-arguments which are merely intended not to have to intervene. Only one word goes with that, and that's cowardly. Because once again, if you can't behave here in this country, then what are you doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u32	I am pleased that Mr Kops, on behalf of the PVV, is trying so hard to get other groups and other Members of Parliament to join the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u33	But with parties who already have their judgment ready, that is of course not a good thing either. Now, this is action. And at least not one night in the press saying you don't support the bill. Then I'd say stay away. Okay, I've responded to the nonsense. Crime in the Antilles is also appalling. Not so long ago then Attorney General Guus Schram said: "The ease with which gangs can get weapons on Curaçao is becoming increasingly worrying. The possession of weapons is rather settled here." Murders as a result of rival street gangs for many years are the order of the day. But this so-called Antillean battle is now also being fought in the Netherlands. Shooting parties in Rotterdam and The Hague, in which bystanders are also injured: these serious criminals do not hesitate at all, and certainly not for the weak approach of the Netherlands, and for parties who want to stick to that weak approach. Conjugation, punishment and the country from miserable: that is the Fritsma/De Graaf law in a nutshell. Mr. Chairman. I have just said it in my speech: also the benevolent Antilleans here in the Netherlands are done with criminal fellow-Antilliaans. Research by Erasmus University has shown that Antillean PVV voters keep other Antilleans at bay because they associate them with crime and poor working ethics. "Most are therefore in favour of zero-tolerance plans, such as the Fritsma/De Graaf Act, which proposes to expel convicted Antilleans." Look, that's good. All support is of course beautiful. The benevolent Antilleans in the Netherlands are convinced of the need for this PVV proposal. Now we need this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u34	Let me point out for a moment that the crime rates in the Netherlands are fortunately falling. The measures taken by the Cabinets of recent years are working. Crime rates among Antilleans are also falling. It's good to give that to you, too. The theorem of the PVV is: if you do not want to function in this country, in the Netherlands, and are criminal, you must leave the country. That is the basic position of Mr Kops. Which other population groups do you think should leave the country after the Antilleans if they show criminal behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u35	I believe that this initiative proposal is about Curaçaoians, Arubans and Saint Martins. That's what we're talking about today, Mr Öztürk. But if I may return to the so-called reduction in crime rates: yes, crime rates are falling, but you must also tell us that 39% of the victims are no longer reporting. Do you think it's weird that the numbers go down? The crime is still there, but beyond the figures. And how did the crime rates among Antilleans fall? I have a table here. They're still overrepresented. They are still six times more suspicious than the European Dutch. So where do you get it from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr Kops also knows that there is a decline compared to recent years. Anyway, he's trying to sketch a situation, create an image of fear, as if the Antillean community in the Netherlands were causing nothing but misery. Once again, my question, perhaps you dare not answer it: what proposal does the PVV intend to submit after this proposal on the Antillean community? Is it the Moroccans? Is it the Turkish community? Is it the Surinamese community? Is it the Jewish community? What other population are you going to send away with an initiative proposal? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u37	Again, this bill is about Curaçaoians, Arubans and Saint Martins. If Mr Öztürk wants to talk about other people, he must do so himself in his own term. I'd say don't tire of it. But he also said something about scary. Do you know what's scary, Mr. Öztürk? That you employ IS supporters with your party. That's scary. That's dangerous and scary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u38	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u39	I thought you'd come up with this. That's weak and small. I have here a list of criminal PVVs. If you continue with "Antilliaans have to leave the country" and "if you're a criminal in this country, you don't belong here," I'd start with those criminal PVVs. I also have something here about Machiel de Graaf's convocation, and something about Markuszower. Start with yourself. Get rid of those PVV guys before you come up with this kind of bullshit initiative laws. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u40	I'd say make it a movie.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u41	I'm standing here to have a serious debate. I'm going to have some serious questions later, and I'm also expecting a serious response. So far, I have not heard any substantive comments, although a number of serious questions have been asked. So my first question is: has the PVV been in contact with, for example, the CDA or the SP to talk about the substantive objections and see if they could still meet each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u42	Then you must be with the initiators. Ask them. I'm a spokesperson here. You will have an argument in a moment, in which you can ask them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u43	Yes, but then I don't understand why you're standing here with such a big dedain and saying, "Have you read the bill?', "I think we have a good story" and "Come to reasonableness." So you have not made any attempt to come here today with a serious story to see if you could come to a comparison with the spokesmen. Are you standing here purely as a symbol, or are you standing here with a good story?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u44	Have you been listening? I've been here ten minutes. Would you like to change my text so you can read it again? I've explained what the law is about and what the crime figures are about. I have told you all of this and you dare to make such accusations to me, while Members of Parliament are also here, for example from the CDA, who are asking questions about the familiar path, which, for example, have not even read the documents and who are asking the initiators questions here when the answer is already in the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u45	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u46	I hear a lot of you, while I have heard both the SP and Mrs Van Toorenburg mention a number of substantive arguments as to why they are against. I expect a serious spokesman, whether you agree or disagree, to make a serious effort at least to agree. All you have done is comment on what would not be good about crime, but you have not made any attempt to come up with a substantive comparison. That disappoints me, because I'm sitting here and I'm not sitting here for wannabe. I'm expecting some serious treatment. I don't expect you to be in this house. I don't expect you to be in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u47	I would say: where are your ideas and where are your amendments? I have already said to Mrs Van Toorenburg: if you disagree with something, please indicate where the points of pain in this proposal are and come up with amendments so that we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u48	I find the level of this debate very sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u49	That is why it is always useful to speak through the President. That "you," "you" and so on brings this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u50	I say to the President that I find the level of this debate sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yeah, I'm with that. It is very good to talk mainly through the chairman. At least we will try to have the debate at a different level. Mr Van Raak; this was a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u52	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u53	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u54	No, Mr Kops says on behalf of the PVV: I do not understand what these other MPs are doing here and why they are debating here; they should leave as far as I am concerned. I want to know if the initiators agree, because I don't want to stand here for nothing. I don't want to be in this circus if it doesn't lead anywhere. Mr Kops says that we should all leave and that we should not have this debate. I would like to know from the initiators whether they agree or whether they value our questions and our contributions, otherwise I will do something else too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u55	No, Mr. Van Raak... Mr Kops is speaking and Mr Kops is speaking on behalf of his group. The initiators are in field K. They hear all the contributions and they will go into them at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr President, it is a fair question!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u57	Don't yell from the benches. I find that very annoying, Mrs. Chicken. If you say anything, please come to the interrupting microphone. This is the first term of office. I believe that the questions in this case should be put to Mr Kops and that not everyone should be involved again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u58	I think that Mr Van Raak's point is correct, because I expect us to have a serious debate here in the near future. Mr Kops is here on behalf of the PVV and makes all kinds of accusations to us, while I will simply ask for a substantive examination. So I think the question is correct and I would like to get a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u59	I fully agree with that. We can also suspend and during the suspension ask the initiators whether they appreciate the behaviour of the PVV colleague or not. Then we can move on or do other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u60	I'm not gonna do that. It is an individual right of Members of Parliament to put forward an initiative proposal, and they are doing so. This is the first term of office. The debate will be held on behalf of the PVV between the political groups and Mr Kops. Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u61	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thanks to the initiators for the legislative proposal. It is always a challenge for MPs to contribute to their own legislative work in addition to all kinds of daily issues that call for attention, by taking the initiative to submit a legislative proposal. Thank you for that. This does not mean that I have already given the SGP's position on the content of this bill. I certainly assume that all the input from the initiators will simply be dealt with in terms of content, so that we simply have a good debate, without too much you-bake. Madam President. The high percentage of criminals among Antilleans is a serious problem. Citizens are faced with the consequences of these crimes, including within their own circle. In addition, the fight against this crime has a strong impact on the police and the judiciary. Unfortunately, the figures in recent decades remain worrying. It has already been said that according to the CBS, Antilleans were six times more likely to be suspected of a criminal offence in 2016 than persons with a Dutch-Dutch background. Their share is the largest of all groups. It is therefore a credit to the initiators that they have seriously wanted to tackle this problem. The Bosman Bill of approximately two years ago sought to prevent poverty and crime by enabling the establishment of Antilleans under conditions. This current bill is limited to returning criminal Antilleans. That is a good initiative in itself, but at the same time it feels somewhat unsatisfactory for the SGP that we are now only fighting the consequences. It would be nice if there were also a stronger incentive to avoid problems. My first question to the initiators is then: to what extent do they think it is desirable to separate establishment and return from each other, what is actually happening with this bill? The bill makes no distinction between the different islands from which the Antilleans come. According to the SGP, that is justified. To date, this has not been done in government letters and the monitoring of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Central Bureau of Statistics. Even the Council of State didn't make that distinction in the advice on that Bosman bill. At the same time, I do note that the initiators have made it a bit more difficult for themselves to say that the crime would almost entirely come from Curaçao. If you say that, you are also obliged to demonstrate that and to indicate what that relationship with Aruba and Saint Martin is like. In fact, the question is: why is this statement included in the explanatory statement, while the initiators maintain in the answer that there is no need to further focus the figures on the different islands? Is there more support for this thesis than a single study on Rotterdam Antilleans? So how solid is this argument? Mr. Chairman. It has been noted from several sides that there is unfair unequal treatment if we specifically design a scheme for Antillean Dutch. Frankly, the SGP does not think that criticism is consistent. Since the second purple cabinet, for example, specific municipalities have been appointed where serious problems with regard to Antilleans have been encountered. Legal provisions have even been drawn up for this. The second Balkenende cabinet also strongly focused on this particular group, although the bill on return was finally withdrawn. In line with these efforts, the SGP sees a legislative proposal as not in advance as problematic. But a good settlement should reflect the joint responsibility of the countries within the Kingdom for the problems of this particular group. The idea can not only be that we are throwing the problems over the fence of the islands. My question to the proposers is whether they can indicate whether they share the stakes that it does not matter to say: here we have problems with people who come from those islands, we send those people back and they figure it out. No, the responsibility does not end there, however much we underline and agree that the Dutch people have the right to be protected against those criminals and the consequences of their crime. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is a responsibility just because you are part of the same kingdom, the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Let me put the question another way: do the proposers throw the idea of "we're dipping it over the fence of the islands" far from itself, isn't it? After all the proposals we have discussed, there is no longer any discussion as to whether the Netherlands can also draw up arrangements for establishment and return. The SGP considers it important that legislation should provide sufficient scope to take account of distressing situations. Although the bill stipulates that the Minister can "take" a decision to return, if I let the bill work on me, I get the impression that it should actually become an automatism. There's a sliding bowl. It is of course being applied. I would like to receive a further reflection from the proposers. I come now to a few questions that may be a little isolated, but have everything to do with the implementation, with the design of the articles of law. Why is Article 9 not a general hardness clause and does the initiators restrict themselves to the right to family life? There may also be other causes or reasons for resorting to mercy for justice. Why is it limited only to the right to family life? An earlier government proposal from 2007 included residence periods within which the Antillean citizens could be returned. It was also a requirement that the Dutch had a connection with the Caribbean by staying there for at least ten years. These safeguards are lacking in the legislative proposal. The SGP wonders whether this is justified in the situation of citizens of the Kingdom. Do they not deserve more protection than the sliding scale that applies to foreigners? Let us get this right, because we are talking about citizens of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The sliding scale is primarily focused on foreign treatment. Do these citizens not deserve different treatment and more protection than foreigners? Should there not be a maximum period within which return is possible, for example? The initiators confirm that it is possible that someone who has lived here since his early childhood can be returned to an area where he no longer has a connection. Why do the initiators think it is obvious that Kingdom citizens should be returned in this case? I'd like a response from the initiators. Finally, Mr President. In recent decades, a wide range of efforts have been made to introduce a comprehensive settlement and return regime at a national level. All these attempts have failed so far. Colleagues also talked about the attempt that failed in 2007. That was over ten years ago. That's how we move on. Mr Bosman has also made an attempt, albeit with a slightly different approach, to get a little more grip on this. We all feel the need for it, but we can't. Then there may be a moment for the Netherlands to make one-sided arrangements. However, according to the SGP, this is without prejudice to the need for the Netherlands to continue to support the islands within the Kingdom, especially in the light of the problems that arise there. Mr. Chairman. I await answers to the questions with more than average interest. It would be nice if this bill could eventually lead to a step in the right direction. I do not wish to take a negative view of it in advance, but we still need to encrypt the proposal in order to make it a proposal that reflects a certain balance and has state-law safeguards and more of these concerns. So I'd like to wait for the answer. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u64	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors. There will be a lot of time in an initiative bill, not only of yourself, but also of your staff and staff. It is a right of the Chamber and it is good that this right is also used to legislate as legislators. The proposers sketched the picture of the relatively high crime among Curaçaoians, Arubaans and Sint-Maartenaren. I recognize that image. I, too, have made an attempt to reverse the tide. Unfortunately, the Chamber decided differently at that time. Mr Fritsma and Mr De Graaf are now trying to reverse that tide with this law. The essence of the law is that everyone is welcome and that you will not be returned until you make a mistake. This is fundamentally different from my initiative, in which I wanted to prevent people who posed the greatest risk, who were likely to participate in criminal activities, from settling here. Prevention is better than cure, I'd say. There lies a great concern for the VVD. To our questions about how this expulsion will take place and how, according to the applicants, people with a Dutch passport will be prevented from settling here after expulsion, we do not get a clear answer. I read that "something is going to be regulated with registration," but it is mainly legislation that still needs to be worked out. You can't keep that dry as a legislator, because you really have to take care of that. That is why, in addition to all the criticisms made by the Council of State, I would specifically like to ask how the applicants intend to register and how it will work, and to explain this. Mr. Chairman. Like me, the petitioners have argued for reciprocity. We are one Kingdom with all the same passport and we all have the same rights. But that's not true. That is perhaps the most fundamental thing we should ask ourselves. What about the statute? The countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten were already disappointed at the last Interparliamentary Kingdom consultation. They consider that there is an imbalance and that there is no equivalence within the Statute. In fact, as four countries within the Kingdom, we find that the balance sheet in the Statute is not good. There are different approaches in different countries to the admission and expulsion of people with the same passport. Under Rutte I, an attempt has been made to achieve a state law on the movement of persons. By opposition from the countries, that law never came. Unfortunately, my initiative to align the requirements for establishment within the Kingdom has been stranded in this Chamber. Now colleagues Fritsma and De Graaf are again trying to establish reciprocity within the Kingdom in a law. Should we not look more fundamentally at the Statute? The Statute is part of the decolonisation process. The goal of decolonization was to prepare the former colonies for their independence. We now see that many countries in the Caribbean in the Kingdom want more sustained cooperation within the Kingdom. By doing so, they want to stop the process of working to independence. If so, we need to look much more fundamentally at the Statute. Caribbean countries will have to speak much more strongly about what they want. If they want more equality, it will have consequences for the fulfilment of their own responsibilities. Then you come to the discussion about whether the guarantee function, or Article 43 (2), can still apply. Then as a Caribbean government you can no longer hide behind the responsibility of the Netherlands. Because it's not there anymore. There is, in fact, cooperation between independent countries. That could be fine within a commonwealth. If the countries wishing to protect and recapitulate the country of the Netherlands within the Kingdom, it cannot be that the Kingdom could no longer intervene. Then there must be an opportunity to correct and act, even against the wishes of the countries. Then it is indeed less equal. That is also true when it comes to investing responsibility. The same applies to the laws on admission and expulsion. When inhabitants of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten come to the Netherlands, they claim the Netherlands as residents of the Kingdom. But if I go as a European Dutchman to Aruba, Curaçao or Sint-Maarten, I have to meet all kinds of conditions before I'm admitted. Stay is an extra step. The Netherlands is then suddenly not applicable within the same Kingdom. And that's rubbing. It is now a cafeteria model of rules between countries, without coherence or based on responsibilities. Instead of making different laws that only solve parts of the problem, we will have to redefine the responsibilities that the countries within the Kingdom want to bear and, if necessary, beyond. Now working with an incomplete legislative proposal, which is not enforceable within the Statute, is a hopeless path. All countries also say that there are serious objections to the investment of responsibilities and control in that Statute. I'll get back to the bill. The VVD recognizes the problem as outlined by the proposers. The VVD believes that prevention is better than cure and still has a number of concerns about enforcement and effectiveness to the law. I look forward to the reply from the proposers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u66	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u67	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to congratulate the authors on this initiative proposal. The submission of such a proposal takes a lot of time and energy. It has to be done in addition to the regular work. I would like to express my appreciation for that. Mr. Chairman. However, this appreciation does not mean that I do not have any serious reservations about this proposal. These reservations are of a legal but above all of a fundamental nature. The applicants intend to return Dutch criminals from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten and possibly impose a ban on entry. I don't think this is possible and I'm sure I don't want this. The very first article of our Constitution is the principle of equality. Discrimination on any ground we may not allow. My group attaches great importance to the requirement of equal treatment and the prohibition of discrimination. The Statute of our Kingdom lays down the simple nature of Dutch nationality. No distinction is therefore made according to origin or binding to a country within the Kingdom. And that is exactly what the proposers are trying to do with this bill. Distinction by national origin, which is also contrary to several international conventions, such as the UN Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the European Convention on Human Rights and the EU Directive against Racial Discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u68	I hear a very fundamental D66: the Statute does not allow... But that's special because Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin just allow it. On those islands there is simply another treatment of people with the same passport. How fundamental is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u69	In my view, Mr Bosman knows very well that this has been looked at and that there are very large differences which have also been confirmed in the case law. This is mainly due to the position and scale of these islands, which, according to our high court, justifies this distinction. I think that is where the fundamental difference lies with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u70	But then it's not a matter of principle. Then there is an opening and it is possible. Then it's not impossible. Then it is not the Statute that makes it impossible. In fact, D66 indicates that it can be reviewed by the judge. And there's the core. You need to get it tested. It can therefore be reviewed by the judge or by the Council of State. For example, the Council of State said that my proposal was not impossible. So how fundamental is it, then, how impossible is it for D66 that this distinction is made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u71	When we distinguish between different groups of people, it is ultimately a question of whether there is an objective justification. In my view, that is the essential difference, namely the scale of these islands and the totally incomparable starting position in relation to the situation that exists here. As far as I am concerned, this proposal can never be acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u72	Finally, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u73	Then I'm glad it's not impossible. It is basic for D66 but according to the Statute it can be done. And if it's judged by a judge, it's still possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u74	Proceed, Mr. Grotehuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I read the reaction of the Council of State, I am not alone in my objections. The Dutch from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are treated less favourably than other Dutch. In fact, Dutch people from these countries are treated less favourably than other Union citizens. Actually, the initiators want to treat Dutch people from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten as random third-country nationals, which is also reflected in the proposal to join the system of the sliding scale of the Alien Order. I have reservations about this in principle. The Dutch are Dutch and those Dutch who cause problems do not send you away to another part of our Kingdom. The Dutch who cause problems must be tackled, just like all the Dutch, by tracking them down, by prosecuting them, by bringing them to justice and by putting them on probation and resocialisation, as agreed in the coalition agreement. That's what you really do. This proposal introduces a kind of second-class Dutchmanship, a division that my group believes cannot be justified. I really have only one question to the initiators: on what basis do they now believe that they can justify that distinction in the Netherlands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Chairman. It is always good if the House of Representatives exercises its right to submit an initiative law itself. That is why I think it is important to stand here with serious questions to see where the similarities are and where the differences are. Then you do not have to agree on the substance, but it is good to conduct this debate carefully. Mr. Chairman. Together with Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten we are in one Kingdom and thus we are one Netherlands and share the Dutch citizenship and our common passport. The moment you submit a bill that violates those shared values, you have to come from a good house and come up with good arguments why you would want to breach it. The Council of State is not for nothing very critical in this respect and says that it is not satisfactory on the basis of the State Statute and European legislation, but also on the basis of Dutch legislation, and that it is discriminatory. And if you want to break into the rules we agreed on, you have to meet a number of conditions. It has to be objective, inequality has to be explainable and you have to be able to explain, and it has to be proportional. I believe that this bill does not meet these two conditions in particular. On the last two points in particular, the Council of State has indicated a number of reasons why they do not think so. I found it disappointing in the answer given by the authors that they say above all: we do not agree and we think it is possible. I find that too thin at the moment when you put forward a serious bill, especially because this bill goes even further than the Verdonk bill and even goes further than the Bosma bill. So I would like to give my other colleagues a serious response to the three points of objectivity, justification inequality and proportionality, because I think that is desirable. A second point is the following. If this bill were to be passed in the Chamber, then that also means that you have an aftercare and that it has financial consequences. If you could send people back, we would still be in one kingdom and have a joint responsibility. This also means that a number of people are being returned and are still in our kingdom. So that means something for prison capacity and for reception capacity. So the moment the bill comes through, that's not the end of the problem. I have not read much about this in the legislative proposal and I would like to comment on it. The last question I have concerns the preventive side of the story. It is clear that we have a problem, particularly with Antillean young people in certain areas of our city. There is no one in this house to fight this either, but at the moment you move on to more far-reaching measures you also have to look at what you do in advance and how you deal with it. Finally, my final point, Mr President: why has the PVV opted for equality with foreigners? And why am I asking that question? You would know in advance that the legislative proposal has a small chance of success, because it encounters so many fundamental objections. Why not opt for a specific variant, because we are in a kingdom and because we are dealing with Dutch? My thesis is that if you choose the term "aliens," you're already putting yourself out of the serious discussion. Mr President, I will conclude. My group does not intend to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, because we do not think it meets the requirements I have just set. The legislative proposal as it has been tabled is indeed discriminatory, so it causes discrimination. At the moment, we believe that it is not proportional, goes far too far and does not solve the serious problems that lie ahead. Nevertheless, I am going to listen to the Minister's answers with interest and seriousness. My final question, which lingered as a result of Mr Kops' input, is whether a serious attempt has been made that my group has not been taken into account, I understand with the VVD, for example, to get to a middle course. That seems to me to be a relevant question in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you. Finally, Mr Özturk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr. Chairman. There they are again: the servants of Geert, the minions of Geert W., the champions of xenophobia, the servants of discrimination, the instigators of anti-Islamics...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr. Özturk, we've all been elected. We are representatives of the people. It is never nice to address people's representatives in this way. So I'm gonna give it to you and eventually you're gonna talk about your own words. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr President, I have heard from Mr Wilders but also from other PVV's heavier, worse words. So I'm displaying a sense of people, of millions of people who think so. I think that as a parliamentarians I stand here in our Parliament, in our democratic system, to express the feelings of all those millions of people. I'm going on. Why is the PVV suddenly in box K? Normally there are cabinet members there. They've come up with a new initiative law. The PVV wants to deport criminal Antillean Dutch after their punishment to the Antilles. Another classic example of the double size. A criminal Dutchman without a migration background is punished by the judge and is allowed to stay in the Netherlands. But a criminal Netherlands with migration background gets forced deportation on top of its punishment. Now it concerns the Antillean Dutch, but who will be next? Is that the Surinamese Dutchman, the Moroccan Dutchman, the Turkish Dutchman, the Indonesian Dutchman, the Polish Dutchman? Or are those the Jewish Dutch? How would the Chamber react if this initiative law said that Jewish Dutch people would be expelled after a criminal act? How would the country react? How would the CDA react? How would the PVV itself react? Now it's about Antilleans. That's easy. There are those people, they can't say anything, but there's been a lot of talk about these people. All sorts of things, and no MP stands up for them. And that is exactly what we want to fight the PVV, Mr President. Where does it go if we don't stop this? Where's it going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u82	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes I just want to let it go, but not right now. I'll make a point of order. "No one stands up for them." That's a pretty disgusting theorem. I think that several Members of Parliament have said today that problems should be addressed, but that we can rightly talk about people. And I thought this was a really nasty comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr. Chairman. If the PVV wants to deport criminal people, why don't they start with themselves? A better environment begins with yourself. I've brought a list of criminal PVVs, Mr. Chairman. A thick suit, a beautiful suit. And PVV guys who've been compromised. Let me start, for example, with Gidi Markuszower, a MP of the PVV. What does our former Minister Hirsch Ballin say about Mr Markuszower? That Mr Markuszower is a risk to the integrity of the Netherlands. That Mr Markuszower has transferred information to foreign powers. Mr. Markuszower has been arrested for possession of a firearm. And this man is in the Lower House and the PVV wants to deport Antilleans! Mr. Chairman. And then Mr. Machiel de Graaf himself. There he is, the initiator of this bill to deport Antilleans. Well, here we look again: confession. What has Mr De Graaf done? He's been compromised for fraud. He received three salaries at the same time for posts that were said never to be combined. In The Hague he even seems to have invented citizens' complaints about a traffic plan. And when this came to light, he destroyed the complaints. That same Machiel de Graaf is now deporting criminal Antilleans. The world turned upside down. Mr. Chairman. The PVV is always radicalising. They're on a sliding scale. They're sowing hate. They demonize entire population groups. They're creating scapegoats. They create an environment in which ethnic violence becomes possible. That's terrifying politics. That's life-threatening politics. Mr. Chairman. And then they say to us, "What are we supposed to do with the xenophobes?" What do we do with these people, who refuse to live together peacefully and on the basis of equality? DENK has a solution for that, Mr. President. DENK proposes to use the PVV Initiative Act against the PVV itself. DENK is proud of the Netherlands. We are proud of how the Netherlands conquered the sea, how the Netherlands made land out of water. Let's do this again. Let's create an additional island in the North Sea, the xenophobic island. That's where all the xenophobes can go. That's where the people who refuse to live with other groups can go. On xenophobic island, they can wallow in their own folk-first mentality, surrender to the majority feelings, reproduce, build a culture of exclusion. The climate on xenophobes island is freezing. There's a bad wind blowing there, it's gray and rainy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u84	Are you going into the bill, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u85	Yes, Mr. Chairman, don't worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u86	Well, I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u87	I'm coming up with a counter-proposal. I have a right to come forward with a counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u88	Yeah, but it's a lot on the person. I also see that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u89	An xenophobic island is not on the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u90	Don't talk through it, Mr. Öztürk. I also see it simply by the non-verbal attitude of a lot of people: what is this about? That's something you have to take into account. So, on the content. Of course, you also make personal remarks every now and then, but now it's just about names and people. That could be very hurtful. Mr. Bosma... Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u91	Bosman, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u92	Yes, Bosman. On behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u93	On behalf of the VVD. I'd like to go back to the contents. Mr Öztürk speaks passionately about the fact that it is a disgrace that the expulsion of people is really scandalous. But we are in one kingdom with one passport. Does Mr Öztürk use the same words for the expulsion of Dutch people from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u94	I have a question at the end of my speech to the Secretary of State. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u95	No, Mr. Chairman. No, Mr President, this is a passionate speech. People are really being taken the size. You say it's a disgrace. It is a disgrace, says Mr Öztürk, what is happening here; it cannot be true that people with a Dutch passport are being expelled. Then I simply expect Mr Öztürk to have an opinion on the expulsion of Dutch citizens with a Dutch passport of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. I'm sure he has a very good opinion on that. We don't have to ask the government about that. Mr. Öztürk can do that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u96	I think Mr Bosman should take the time to await my question to the Secretary of State. In that I will also express our opinion. Take your time. I'm on it, Mr. Chairman. Would such a culture of xenophobia-inbreeding be fruitful? Will many children be born and brainwashed there? Does xenophobic island burst out of its mouth soon? And then what? What are the xenophobes supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u97	Before you continue, Mrs Van Toorenburg has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u98	Mr President, I expected us to have a debate on an initiative law. I've provided my input. I have heard several interesting contributions from other Members, but I think I have something better to do now, so I am leaving the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u99	Mr President, it is regrettable to see that the Christian Democratic Appeal, a party that keeps the values of faith very high, does not go away at the moment when a PVV's Antilleans are roaring here, at the moment when a PVV's people here are hurting and making people feel pain, but leaving the room at the moment I have an alternative proposal to ban these xenophobics. That shows how far the CDA has moved towards PVV. Sad, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mrs Van Toorenburg is no longer here, so she can no longer respond. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u101	That's what she chose to do. Then they have to go back to the Netherlands. Then they're the newcomers. Then they'll have to do the integration course. Then they will fall massively for their integration test, because they do not support the standards and values of the Netherlands. Then they'll have to learn their feelings of majority and racial hatred. Then they will have to accept other groups as equal. Mr President, I am going to conclude slowly. Is this PVV initiative law gonna make it? No. Will they succeed in punishing criminal Antillean Dutch more severely than other criminal Dutch? No. The initiative law won't make it. He will perish, like all other PVV proposals: the introduction of a capital tax, the closing of mosques, and the inclusion in the law of racist caricatures of Black Piet. All these PVV proposals aren't gonna make it. But that's not what the PVV is all about. It's all about attention. The PVV wants attention and they want to spread hate. They want to hurt other populations and hurt them. They want to be brusque. That's why I've got this cake of my own, Mr. Chairman. Therefore this cake of his own dough, this baklava of his own dough; Mr Wilders seems to like baklava. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the PVV is in the government business is a fearful prospect. It's the biggest nightmare that men like Fritsma and De Graaf will ever truly be in the government. That's something DENK will always fight against. Now they're just sitting there screaming. We consider the PVV's discriminatory initiative law to be a poor piece of school work. In fact, it is a devaluation of our instrument of the initiative law. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question for the rulers. DENK is against the double size. We are opposed to sending back criminal Antilleans, but we do believe that there should be reciprocity between the countries of the Kingdom. In the context of reciprocity, it is strange that Curaçao would expel European Dutch and that Aruba and Sint-Maarten also have the opportunity to expel European Dutch. How does the government feel about that? Can the government enter into a respectful dialogue with these countries of the Kingdom, so that the principle of reciprocity will apply here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u102	This was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u103	As I said at the beginning of the debate, the legal process will continue at a later date, of course in consultation with the initiators.
