ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on fraudulent behaviour by waste collection companies. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has requested this debate, so she has the floor first. You have three minutes' speaking time. I would like to agree with you all that you all have four interruptions. That could be two and two or four single. We're gonna die, but if you're gonna peat yourself, you're gonna be okay. Mrs Kröger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was deeply shocked after seeing Beerput Netherlands, and I think many with me. Environmental crimes affect all of us. They put our basic necessities at risk: clean water, clean air and clean land. The idea that we're asking people who are involved in this type of crime to talk about new environmental legislation is bizarre, as if we're asking a robber to think about new criminal law. In the AO External Security Office, the Secretary of State already indicated that we all know very well who the frequenters are. Could she therefore ensure that in the future polyplayers are no longer invited to stakeholder consultations? Then I'm not talking about companies that accidentally make a mistake once. I am talking about cowboys who deliberately risk the safety of people and the environment for financial gain. Could the Secretary of State share the list of repeaters with the European Commission immediately? For I hope that the revision of REACH will not be a missed opportunity by giving environmentalists the opportunity to lobby it down. Unfortunately, we have seen this too many times in the past. Another great concern is the chance of getting caught. How can compliance with environmental legislation remain so low? Is it true that the potential for environmental crime is much lower than for other crimes? What does that say about how important it is to us? In 2016, as many as 60% of all companies inspected were in violation. The cost and penalty for notorious offenders of environmental legislation needs to be increased, and quickly. What is needed for this? Is there enough capacity in the inspections, the environmental investigation and the D.A.'s office? Can the Secretary of State come up with a plan of action? We need to put companies that systematically break the rules under a magnifying glass. Why is there so little criminal prosecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr Van Aalst has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u4	The PVV also saw the reportage. We have noted that this was mainly about many old environmental crimes. We have also seen the letter from the Secretary of State, which is very clear: all these people have been treated hard. I hear GroenLinks shouting that there would still be all kinds of abuses. Can you give us a concrete example of this? 'Cause I didn't see them in the documentary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u5	I mention, for example, the company ATM. After this report, there were two more incidents, for example around Chemours, where there was GenX in the wastewater. When we see that certain companies break rules over and over again, we really need to look at them. I am concerned that the ILT and the environmental police do not have the capacity to do this properly at the moment. I think Mr Van Aalst shares this concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u6	We agree on the capacity of the ILT. The PVV has already tabled a motion on several occasions to increase that capacity, in order to at least have control even better in order. But I will come back to the first question I asked my colleague from GroenLinks. Are you saying that the Secretary of State and the Minister are not informing us correctly? Are you saying that there are still abuses, which the Secretary of State and the Minister say are not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u7	What I note is that in 2016 60% of companies were in breach. In the case of environmental offences, it often seems that we dismiss them as some sort of administrative offence or a case where the form was not properly completed. But we really are dealing here with crimes that affect our primary necessities. We must treat them with more care and more attention than is currently the case. I will continue my speech. Why is there so little criminal prosecution? How does the Secretary of State view police and ILT warnings on conflicts of interest and double caps at local level? Can this be further investigated as part of the multi-pleger approach that has already been announced? Finally, here's what I'm gonna do. LAP3 should have led to greater clarity and better regulation, but on a number of points there seems to be confusion, uncertainty and weakening. Take mercury, for example. Following consultation of the sector, the regulation is now unclear as to where and when to deposit. This may have happened in more of the 82 sectoral plans. We ask the Secretary of State once again for an analysis of where legislation has been watered down after consultation with industry. Were companies previously involved in environmental crimes part of this? Our waste legislation must be beyond any doubt. Mr. Chairman. I hope that people and the environment will gain from polluting profits today, and I thank both the Secretary of State and the Minister for their presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The documentary Beerput Nederland takes the viewer through 50 years of patriotic environmental crime. Toxic waste is dumped in rivers or seas or mixed with fuel oil used as fuel for ships. We saw how waste disposal companies, sometimes with dozens of convictions for environmental crime, continue after the convictions, whether or not under another name. And what about the links between fraudulent waste processors and public sector drivers? This is also the subject of Beerput Nederland. According to the documentary, almost all major environmental scandals involve directors, sometimes up to ministerial level. But the Secretary of State does not see a problem, because on 14 March she writes to the Chamber: "I leave the suggestion in the documentary that over the years there would be unauthorized links between the waste-processing industry and drivers on behalf of the documentary maker." That's too easy. Police services are also concerned about the links between wrong companies and public domain administrators. I have taken up a number of reports and I quote from the report on environmental crime in the Netherlands 2012: "There is a high risk of conflict of interest between actors and sometimes there is a double-hat problem, including among municipalities." The 2016 Environmental Crime Handbook describes what happens when large companies commit environmental crimes: "In such companies, the economic and employment interests are high and the directors are usually good acquaintances of local or provincial directors, sometimes even ministers." Mr. Chairman. Because of time I stick to these examples, but there are more. The police and the Police College also identify dubious links between waste processors and drivers. Those links are undesirable and should be further investigated. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Environmental crime has not been given sufficient priority for years. As early as 2002, the KLPD wrote in a study on serious environmental crime: "There is still a lack of understanding of the nature, seriousness and extent of environmental crime in many respects. One possible explanation for this is that the fight against environmental crime in the Netherlands is still a low priority in practice and should always be at the mercy of competition with other crime areas." And yet, despite this limited capacity, environmental crime is sometimes prosecuted and companies and individuals are convicted. And then everything stays the same. In fact, in consultation for new environmental legislation, the Ministry has used knowledge and input from convicted companies. The Secretary of State writes that there are no regulations in this area. Those rules need to be put in place. We want criminally convicted companies to be excluded from any form of participation in consultation. In addition, it is essential that the Ministry is independent of external stakeholders and invests more in its own knowledge building. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I am considering a motion on both points. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you. I call Mrs van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. I also found the documentary Beerput Nederland shocking. It shows how far we've gotten, a world in which we've just lost everything, but also that we've got a long way to go. Luckily, the spirit of time has changed. Environmental crime is unacceptable, now the widely shared view. That is why we have more and stricter regulation and more and better enforcement and supervision. We welcome the steps taken by the Secretary of State and thank her for the comprehensive letter and explanation. But the central question remains: does the government have sufficient control over the situation? The environmental services issue permits and check them. The province again controls the environmental service. But is there enough knowledge in the province? And what is the control role of the Empire in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u12	Before you continue, Mrs Kröger has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u13	On what basis does my colleague base more enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u14	It seems clear to me that there is now more enforcement than, for example, in the 1960s, or 50s, or 70s.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u15	But if Mrs Van Eijs compares it with, for example, two or three cabinet periods ago, does she recognise that there has been incredible cuts in enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think that enforcement has been cut, but that does not have to say anything about its effectiveness. I was trying to sketch an image of the longer period and where we came from. I think Mrs Kröger also recognizes that in the past people were not at all wondering if things were harmful. That's where we're from. Does the legislation offer enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u17	At the same time. I looked at some of the pieces yesterday. In this context, I refer to the Environmental Crime Threat Review 2016. It says on page 9: "Only a small part of economic activity is faced with a control. Irregularities are detected in many cases." How can Mrs. Van Eijs reconcile this with that improved control she's talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u18	Actually, I need to give the same answer as before. I tried to outline how many decades ago there was no environmental control at all. So my comment is not so much about the last short term, although I do think that steps have been taken forward. But whether that is enough is, of course, the discussion we are having here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u19	Then perhaps it makes sense to compare it with the right period? 400 years ago, there was even fewer checks. I think we should take a look at this in recent history. The investigation services themselves say that there is little control, and if we check more than half of the cases find irregularities and sometimes offences and sometimes even crimes. Then it does not make much sense to compare the checks with a period of 50, 60 years ago. Then you should start looking at the recent past. That's the point. Crimes are getting more serious, control is getting less. So again, why doesn't Mrs Van Eijs compare it with the recent past?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u20	I understand that Mr Wassenberg wants to extend his speaking time, but I am simply trying to make a general introductory sentence. I'm only at my first cup. So I would not like to use my introductory phrase immediately to say that you are comparing the wrong thing with the wrong thing. I will come back to all aspects of inspection. I agree with you that we need to see if the inspections are sufficient. But I would not use my introductory phrase, which was about the spirit of time, to blame me for not taking that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u21	On this point, too, I heard Mrs Van Eijs say that we are debating whether there is sufficient enforcement at the moment, yes or no. That is a valid point. I would like to hear from the D66 Group whether it believes that there is sufficient capacity to maintain at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u22	It is particularly important in enforcement that there is sufficient knowledge. For example, we have had discussions about Chemours and found that there is still too little knowledge about a number of issues. Then supervision would also improve a lot, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u23	I couldn't agree more. As far as we are concerned, the level of knowledge should also be raised. As far as GenX is concerned, we've talked about it before. But the question remains whether D66 believes that there is sufficient enforcement in practice at the moment, while several reports, detectives and policemen say: we do not have enough capacity. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u24	I think that the question of whether there is sufficient enforcement falls apart in a number of pieces. It is partly manpower and partly knowledge, but also, for example, the legislation with which we work. It also indicates that there are still too many holes in it. I would like to see enforcement wider than just the people we have before that. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she estimates that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u25	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u26	My next point comes back to this in part. Does our legislation offer sufficient tools? The Secretary of State refers to the combined monitoring of ILT, which also takes into account the REACH Regulation. That sounds good. We'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how that goes. Is this indeed effective? Does the REACH Regulation give the same level of safety as waste regulation? If this is an effective way of inspecting, would it be possible to monitor this way, combined with multiple legislation, in several areas? Fuel oil has now been addressed as a priority dossier, but has the chance of being caught increased? Now that there are more rules, is there more grip? What are the lessons we have learned from this case? How can we deal with parties involved in environmental violations? We understand the pragmatic approach of the Secretary of State, but does this give us all sufficient guidance? How do we prevent us from being dependent on or becoming dependent on such companies when preparing legislation and regulations? How do we ensure sufficient knowledge to identify a wrong input? There are also companies that are lagging behind. We've discussed that before in the AO. They don't have their affairs in order and there are still incidents. What do we do with these companies? How do we handle this one? According to D66, the root of this problem is that companies are paid to take over waste. This is a crazy stimulus. If I want to sell someone a car and I say, "Here's your money," the person asks me, "What's wrong with that car?" But he's probably not waiting for the answer. He takes the money and dumps the car. In addition, the discharge of junk in the ditch is always cheaper than handling it in a neat way. That is why companies that want to do it in a proper way are always more expensive and are thus competitive out of the market. Here it is not 'polluter pays'. Does the Secretary of State agree with D66 that this is an undesirable situation? The system must be reversed, in line with the idea of a circular economy. You should just pay to receive raw materials. And substances that are no longer allowed to return to the environment must be completely banned: safe-by-design. I ask the Secretary of State: how do we make the transition to such a system? In short, chemical crap does not belong in our environment and environmental crimes should not pay off. Everyone has the right to a clean and safe environment. As far as D66 is concerned, we are therefore working towards a system that is closely linked to a circular economy in which waste does not exist and neither does pollution of our living environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you. Mr Laçin of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u28	I called it criminal behaviour last week during oral Question Time. Chemistry tankers that just sail the sea, discharge their junk into our environment and return to port. The documentary Beerput Nederland showed in early December 2017 that this kind of filthy practice has been taking place in our country for decades and that local and national administrators have also turned a blind eye. As far as I'm concerned, Beerput Nederland is the nail on its head. Examples were in our country. The lobby to advance aviation, with Schiphol and Lelystad, while the boundaries for man, environment and climate have long been reached. Winning Gronings gas despite the earthquakes and the damage to houses, but especially the damage caused by the Groningers themselves. When is this cabinet going to show that they are there for the people and not for multinationals and business? As far as the SP is concerned, the mixing of toxic substances into fuel oil must stop as soon as possible. We cannot and must not accept that companies put the environment and our health at risk for profit maximization. We need some steps for that. First of all, there must be much stricter rules so that we know which substances are mixed away and discharged into our environment. Shipping is an excellent international activity. That is why the Secretary of State also writes in her letter of 14 March that we must make international agreements and the REACH system will help us to do so. That is true on paper, if it is not that something is incomplete and many substances that have a major impact on our health are not on the list. What can the Secretary of State do to strengthen REACH nationally and stop the discharge of toxins? Mr. Chairman. I have said it before: rules mean nothing without proper enforcement. Our inspection services have been cut down in recent years and the police have also shown that they have insufficient capacity to maintain properly. The programme emissions and/or discharges of dangerous substances by shipping has been identified by the ILT as a subject with an increased risk of social damage. Can the Secretary of State explain what it means and what consequences this has for the supervision of shipping? I would also like to know how many enforcement actions there have been in 2017 by the ILT in this context and in how many cases there have been found abuses, what those abuses were and what steps the ILT has taken to prevent repetition. Finally, Mr President. Convicted environmental criminals are invited by the Ministry to consider future environmental rules and laws. The Secretary of State writes in the same letter of 14 March that she and the Minister of Justice and Security have looked at the frameworks that can be put in place for companies invited to such meetings. That turns out to be complex and problematic, she writes. In my view, it is problematic and inexplicable that convicted environmental criminals should be invited, even though they have proven that they do not respect rules, the environment and the people in our country. A practical approach, as the Secretary of State calls it, is insufficient as far as we are concerned. That is why I would like to ask her to draw up frameworks for meetings that the Ministry organises or has organised, so that multi-stakeholders such as MAIN, Wubben, Tauw and ATM can no longer join in thinking about our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u30	I hear every time a request to the Minister or to the Secretary of State for setting frameworks, but I have clearly read in the letter that, when inviting people to a table, it is about companies that are simply licensed. This means that they have been granted a licence and are indeed entitled to participate on the basis of that licence. It has also been established that the parties referred to each time as convicted parties have that authorisation. I believe that the framework has been set. The Minister clearly states this in the letter. How does the colleague feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u31	How do I feel about that? These frameworks are indeed there, but as far as we are concerned, these frameworks are inadequate and incomplete. We should not want convicted environmental criminals at those tables, because they have proved time and time again that they are not in favour of rules and are not in favour of laws. The fact that, by adopting other names and setting up a new e.g., they come up with licences over and over again is a major problem for us. That needs to be addressed and that kind of companies that are constantly putting the same cops at the table can't sit down where it's about your future and my future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u32	Those are big words, but in fact it has been established that the parties you mention each time have actually been at the table, but actually have licences. Those authorisations were granted on the basis that those companies comply with the provisions laid down in the authorisation. Big words are spoken here in the microphone and a great spectacle is made of it, but in fact all the things that are mentioned concern things from the past. For the cases that have been dealt with, they've actually been convicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u33	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u34	When you're done with the punishment you've been sentenced for in this country, you can start again with a clean slate. That's the way it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u35	Not as far as we're concerned. It has just been said in the debate: we are not talking about a company that accidentally makes a mistake once. These are companies that repeatedly deliberately violate environmental laws, then adopt a different name with the same administration at the same address, and continue as if they never did anything. The SP thinks we should take care of that. Those companies should not join because they are ruining our environment, our health and our future. The VVD and all the other parties present here should not want to do so and should not make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It could already be seen from my interruption, in which I mentioned that great words are being spoken. Of course, it is a good thing that companies that act fraudulently are being treated hard. The pieces just show that this has happened. Those companies have been dealt with and prison sentences have been imposed. In short, also in this documentary things are mentioned that are of course important, but sometimes a story is also a bit beaten up. It means that the past is often taken back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u38	I just want to make some sense of those big words. It is said that people have been convicted, but we have the most serious doubt as to whether the penalty is proportionate to the crime. If, in my view, a mayor proposes a VVD mayor to come to Delfzijl mainly because you are allowed to discharge it on the Wadden Sea, I wonder whether the penalty is proportionate to the pollution and environmental damage caused by it. I would very much like to hear from Mr Ziengs whether he still supports the words of his colleague, Mr Dijkstra, that the polluter must actually pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u39	Of course, we always have the position that the polluter must pay, but the 50PLUS colleague also points out that at that time, when it was perfectly normal to dispose of certain substances, it was also a permit issued on the basis of the knowledge of that time. In order to move back from that past towards the present, I always say that it is clear that certain things are simply different from what was expected at the time. So you can often only find afterwards that things have gone wrong. Then you also have to be careful how you finally deal with the polluter pays claim, because then you have a shared responsibility, including as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u40	I will come back to this in my speech and certainly in the second term. I hope that the VVD will be on my side to take a joint look at the penalties that are being passed out in relation to the crimes, because they affect a lot of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr Ziengs says that the companies that have gone wrong have been convicted, have served their sentence and may then begin with a clean slate. But let's take a look at the guests of that meeting of 14 April 2016; that's what we're talking about. Before that, a company was invited that had already been convicted. So I am not talking about an offence or administrative law, but about a criminal conviction. At the time of that meeting, there were two further criminal investigations, one of which at least led to a conviction. You can say that the stocking is finished when a company has been convicted and that you can start with a clean slate, but what does Mr Ziegs think about the fact that companies have been invited who have already been convicted and have again been subject to criminal investigations? You can't keep saying they're spotless, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u42	I think it is also about the content of such a meeting. In my opinion, the Minister replied to this in her letter and indicated that the meeting would not be about matters that they could influence, but simply was intended to assess how certain issues could be dealt with better in terms of waste management. Then perhaps it is good that you also have parties at the table that may have made a mistake in the past, so that you can learn from it. Once it has been established that a company has committed an offence and has been sanctioned for it, it seems logical to me, as the Minister or the Secretary of State describes, to see if the company has a permit before inviting him, her or the company back to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u43	Before you continue, Mr. Wassenberg, I would remind you that this is your fourth interruption. You're sure you're using it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u44	I'm a good count, Mr. Chairman. I'd come to the same conclusion. Mr Ziengs answers half of my question. I said that the company had not only been convicted, but that at that time there were two criminal cases against that company. Now you can indeed say: companies are guilty only after the judge has found that guilty. But a year earlier, there had been a criminal conviction. At that time, there were two investigations. In the summer of 2017, so last year, at least one of those investigations has already led to a verdict and a criminal conviction. Surely you cannot insist that companies that have been punished are clean and that the same companies that are investigating against running are still innocent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u45	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u46	Why don't you invite everyone? You have to apply a criterion at some point, lay the line somewhere and say: we don't want these people at the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u47	In my opinion, I have just indicated that the Minister or the Secretary of State indicated in the letter that there is a criterion for inviting parties. These must be companies that have a licence. In this case, that was the case. In addition, the contents of the letter from the cabinet indicate that the content of the meeting was not such that it was possible to influence a particular form of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u48	I'm gonna keep going at this point. Mr Ziegs pointed out that the criterion as far as he was concerned was that there was a permit. Isn't the question: why polyplegers, who go wrong over and over again? We are talking about a history with a company that has been in the news twice in the last year, for example because heavily polluted soil was used for dikes. What did they get? A penalty payment, not another conviction. In the meantime, they're holding that license. Shouldn't we make the licensing much stricter for multi-stakeholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u49	A permit is granted from the province. This means that a province makes trade-offs, on the basis of which it grants a permit. It is also up to the provinces to decide when to withdraw a permit or not. I think that is the answer to that question. We can have a whole debate on this, but that is where the mandate lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u50	This is my last interruption. The mandate for a specific licence lies with the province, but the mandate for the licensing frameworks lies here. In the AO External Security, we had a discussion about the need for a multi-pleger approach. I really hope that Mr Ziengs will support us in the view that many of the victims should not be able to get another permit to commit the next environmental crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u51	It can never be the intention that we give companies the opportunity to go wrong every time. I fully agree with Mrs Kröger. That's what our group says. But that does mean that you also have to look fairly and fairly at what the offence is, how it was committed and what sanction was eventually imposed. I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u52	No, you haven't moved on yet. Mr Laçin reporting for duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u53	I hope that I will see the day here in the Chamber that the VVD is going to say a little bigger words when it comes to the environment, health and people rather than protecting environmental criminals. That is what is happening here. I would like to ask Mr Ziegs whether he thinks it is normal that such companies, which Mrs Kröger and Mr Wassenberg asked for, should always be allowed to join. Take a company like Main, for example. This has been criminally convicted several times under different names for environmental crime. They then have a licence; that is apparently the only criterion that matters for the VVD. That's why they're allowed to sit around and think and talk, while they've shown time and again that they're breaking all the rules and that they don't care about our health and our environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u54	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u55	Does the VVD think that's normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u56	I said right at the beginning of my speech that fraudulent action must be tackled vigorously. That's what we stand for. I also distance myself from Mr Laçin's remark that we stand up for environmental criminals. However, I am trying to prevent us from cultivating a culture of fear, because there are a lot of companies that just follow the rules neatly. They are put directly into the light of day. Waste treatment companies and so on can very well play a role in the circular economy. In the conversation that took place with the parties invited, these were also materials that could eventually be used in a different way in that circular economy. I believe that the aim of such a meeting is often to achieve a better product. For this reason, I think that the parties who sat at the table and who had no influence in that regard could sit at that table quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u57	Your fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u58	It is precisely the fact that the multi-stakeholders, the companies that have done this time and again, are not being dealt with and are allowed to continue to join, that puts the good companies in a bad light. So I'd like to turn it around. I would like to ask Mr Ziengs what possibilities he can see, apart from a permit that they can fly with, to deal with these companies harder, so that they do not join in. They don't have a heavy voice. Then why would they have to join us at all if they don't have anything to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u59	This is the image that Mr Laçin wishes to draw. First, I'm gonna go into the fact that they're sitting at the table. This is an input to make a product less environmentally unfriendly in any case, as it is described. That's what the conversations were aimed at; that's how you can read it. You're gonna walk away before I finish my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u60	I'll listen!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u61	The image you are sketching is a bigger picture than what actually happens at such a table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u62	I heard Mr Ziengs say that this does not feel right in the case of many of the victims. I hope I understood that correctly. My question is whether Mr Ziengs would be willing to think about how we can make sure that people with.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Would Mr Ziengs be prepared to take part in this and ask the Secretary of State to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u63	Let me start with the fact that, if there are rules, we have to abide by them. We have all kinds of opportunities in criminal or civil law to deal with companies or people who do not comply with rules. If the question is whether the current sanctioning, as has been said, is no longer an obstacle for companies to go more frequently in error, you will find me at your side. Then we will have to discuss it, but it will have to take place in another debate and perhaps also through another ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr. Ziengs, I believe this is the moment when you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u65	I thought it would never happen, but in the context of the interruptions I have already discussed a lot of things. I have made a plea for companies that are doing well. There are also percentages here which make it seem as if a large number of companies are engaged in failure to comply with licensing obligations, but in practice this is different. As far as I am concerned, therefore, I should like to stick to my answer to the interruptions, because they are quite similar to the input I have before me here. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you. I call Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, waste has been used in the Netherlands over the years. The documentary shows a clear overview of this. The real question is, of course, whether this is still the case. Does this happen on a large scale? Is this structural? Are they getting away with it? We have not received any indications of this. The PVV has previously filed a motion to increase the capacity of the ILT. A number of parties who are now complaining about alleged abuses have voted against it. There's a real thought twist there. Mr. Chairman. It's impossible to prevent any offense, but we can do everything we can with each other to prevent violations. The answers in the Secretary of State's letter are clear and take away many concerns as far as we are concerned. I would like to hear if there are any actual abuses that are tolerated out of unwillingness or incompetence. As soon as it becomes clear that a enforcement agency such as the ILT neglects its task and closes its eyes to abuses, the PVV will be at the forefront of a sweep, but until then we will stick to the facts. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the port of Rotterdam is one of Europe's largest bunker ports and is in the top three worldwide. Let's be proud of this instead of constantly putting them in an evil light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. I call Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By the way, it's good to see you're drinking a glass of milk. Or isn't it milk? It doesn't matter. What matters is the expression "who does not know the past, cannot understand the present, nor give direction to the future." What lessons can we learn from the past and how can we take this into account in future policies? This debate has been announced as a 30-member debate, but I think it is mainly a 30-member dialogue. We agree on a lot of things. Only the tone of the approach that we have to let go of the companies that are in breach in the near future differs a little. The documentary Beerput Nederland sketches a shocking picture. The CDA also wants to prevent toxic substances from being introduced into the environment by discharges or mixtures of waste from fuel oil. With regard to illegal discharges in the past, the Secretary of State states that these companies have been prosecuted. The current approach to mixing waste with fuel oil feels unsatisfactory. The fact that substances that are waste for a particular sector still enter marine engines to get rid of them seems an undesirable trick. The CDA has a number of questions about this. With regard to the REACH classification: does "identified use" as a fuel oil component mean that these substances are not harmful even if they are mixed together? In addition, the CDA has questions about the transposition of the REACH Regulation in the Netherlands. Is it true that only the company that mixes REACH can violate, and not the ships or shipowners? What are the penalties for mixing waste other than fuel oil under REACH? As regards enforcement, the Secretary of State's letter refers to the ILT programme Emissions and/or discharges of dangerous substances by shipping. It is not clear whether, in addition to the control of sulphur content in fuel oil, substances not registered under REACH are also considered. Is that the case? If not, is that even gonna happen? In addition, the Secretary of State says that the monitoring of REACH compliance focuses on the required REACH registration and the safety data sheet. What exactly does this mean? I hope that in practice supervision is not just a paper exercise. As far as enforcement is concerned, I also wonder to what extent there is attention to suspicious behaviour, whereby in the Netherlands certain substances, other than fuel oil, are mixed with the fuel oil. Can the Secretary of State indicate the first results of combined supervision, and how risk-based supervision is carried out? In addition, the Secretary of State's letter does not make it clear whether samples are being taken from marine fuel oil and what is found in it. Will this also be addressed in the letter in the first half of this year, with the results of the ILT study on the origin and quality of chemical flows used in the blending of both marine fuel oil and petrol and diesel for the African market? That's it, Mr. Chairman. To the second accurate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u70	Very good. Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The documentary Beerput Nederland opened the cesspool of the waste-processing industry. Large companies prefer to discharge chemical waste into the IJ rather than treat it neatly. The municipality of Delfzijl lured companies to the North with the condition that they could be discharged into the Wadden Sea. In the 1980s and 1990s, money was made over people and the environment, and the government was not able to contain it sufficiently, and in some situations even gave the impression of promoting it. It's a scandal. There were several scandals, on which even a parliamentary survey was carried out. Inspecting was then tantamount to harassing companies. But the most important thing is: is this time far behind us and have we learned from it? The Secretary of State stated in her reply that all the companies mentioned were prosecuted and that this led to convictions. Can the Secretary of State state state whether the conviction was proportionate to the damage caused? Can the Secretary of State provide an overview of serious environmental crimes over the last five years? What prison sentences have already been handed out and what fines have been imposed? Is the Secretary of State satisfied with the penalty? The question is also whether the mentality of waste collection companies is different now. Not a single company that makes illegal discharges is on the big clock. The criminal is trying to hide his actions and so is the environmental criminal. The consequences of environmental crime can be enormous for citizens' health and the environment. Think about DuPont. How can you, as a citizen, have faith in the government? And how can we regain that trust? 50PLUS specifically asks the rulers. Legislation and enforcement should be strengthened to protect the health of citizens and the environment. We need to restore the image of large companies getting away with environmental crimes and also having a say in environmental legislation. The Ministry says: we take into account that information can be colored. In what way will the Secretary of State and the Minister remain in the lead? How do they ensure that the government is in charge and sets the right priorities? I'd like a response. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it is never possible for companies that are not good to think along with them. Secretary of State, please clarify this. I have another question about enforcement. Of course we have the Inspection for the Environment, but what about the capacity? Is it big enough? Can they do their job properly? Because in the documentary we saw that inspectors were intimidated and that management and business interests were sometimes more important than inspections. That's dangerous, because as far as we're concerned, no one is above the law, right, Secretary of State? Finally, for serious crimes, high penalties are in place. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, more needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u72	Thank you, Mrs Van Brenk. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The directors need ten minutes before they can start their first term, so I'm suspending until 11:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u73	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I can be quite brief, because not many questions have been asked in my direction. I do share the feeling that many of you have brought forward, the first emotion you feel when you see that broadcast. That was also one of me that evokes an average cesspool, in the sense that you really think: ugh, ugh and again ugh. You don't really want to go through all this. So I think it is very good that both the ILT and the police and the environmental services are on top of this as pit bulls and that they are really trying to tackle it with all the legislation on waste and REACH. The Secretary of State will discuss this later. Fortunately, there is also some good news to report. You didn't remember, but I can't resist putting forward the following. Shipping is a global industry. It is good that in the international organisation IMO there seems to be a trend break in the sense that there is more attention to this type of thing and that we are still taking a little step in the right direction. That's also about emissions. But we have also been able to take good steps in the Netherlands. Not so long ago, I was able to conclude an agreement with the entire chain to stop releasing paraffin residues. I think that is a sign that the sector really wants to make the most of it. In addition, I was able to conclude a covenant with the entire chain of the week to ban the degassing of the fern throughout the Netherlands. We had a general discussion on the Transport Council yesterday. It also mentioned the third Mobility Package and what it all deals with. There are also the port reception facilities. This gives me good hope that, at European level and as the Netherlands, we will be able to ensure that the troop can be properly handed over to the port reception facilities for this purpose, and that we can also take important steps in this regard. There are a few more questions that did go my way. These are mainly related to the quality of marine fuel. We are globally trying to take steps in that direction. For example, we are talking about reducing the sulphur content of marine fuels. In the North and Baltic Sea, the permitted sulphur content of marine fuels has been significantly reduced since 1 January 2015, i.e. to 0.1%. This has also led to an increase in the use of cleaner fuels in these waters, such as marine diesel and LNG. If you look at the port of Rotterdam, we really do have a leading role to promote that. Apart from the North and the Baltic Sea, unfortunately, there is still a major risk of high sulphur fuel oil. In 2016, the Netherlands successfully negotiated a stricter global sulphur standard from 3.5% to 0.5% from 2020. That is not yet the 0.1% we ourselves have for the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, but at least we are going to manage to make it 0.5% by 2020. So we're not there yet, but we're just another little step forward. My ministry is working steadily in IMO to ensure that these sulphur requirements are implemented properly by 2020. We are also working on fuel quality guidelines for oil suppliers, buyers and governments. When the results are ready, I will be happy to share them with your Chamber. In fact, only Mr Van Aalst had made a comment about the port of Rotterdam in the sense that we should not put it in a bad light. I very much agree with him. If you are one of the largest in the world in terms of bunkers, then of course there are also the rotten apples. We must fight them with everything, but we must not paint the picture that nothing is good in the port of Rotterdam anymore, because fortunately that is certainly not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u75	We'll start with a clean slate again. Every spokesperson, I'll allow four interruptions. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u76	It is good to hear that the Minister is passionately in agreement with the feeling of what Beerput Netherlands calls for and the need to do something about it. She sketches that the ILT and the police are on top of it, like pit bulls. Nevertheless, the chances of getting caught are very low for environmental crimes. My question to the Minister is what her analysis is of why this is so and what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u77	Of course, we have not been working on this new approach for very long, the combination of waste legislation and REACH. We need to see if those improvements show up. I think the Secretary of State can say more about that. Of course, at the end of the year, we will have the state of supervision for the first time. That seems to me a good time to check again whether the priority we have for the first time or only for a few years in the framework of the Inspection-wide Risk Analysis in the ILT programme shows results. If these are unsatisfactory, we would like to have another debate with you, and I would first like to await the evaluation of this new approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u78	Then the Secretary of State will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the Minister said, the documentary, in my view, was about incidents that happened a long time ago, but still evokes indignation, to you and to everyone who sees the documentary. It is therefore very good to see together that environmental legislation has become considerably stricter since then. Examples are, of course, the Water Framework Directive, the Industrial Emissions Directive, the REACH Regulation, but also the creation of environmental services and regional implementation services that have knowledge, even very specific knowledge of Brzo companies, companies with a particular risk of major accidents. These are all steps we have just taken because we do not want to see the kind of examples from the documentary anymore. Of course, we have to stay focused on that. It's not like you can say that that's done, that's done. That is why I spoke with you in the last AO about the multi-party regime. I will not say that it will be easy to settle, but I simply feel wide in the Chamber that a certain price should be paid again and that some extras should be possible against companies that are structurally looking for the edge. I think that is a different issue than the question and the concern I have heard from you, which has been reflected in the input of a number of people on the companies that contribute to the legislation. I think we should be very clear about that. There are two parties that make legislation: you and I. That we do not make legislation from an ivory tower is, of course, a different story. I do not think we should go so far as to say: we are going to sit in the offices here in The Hague and we are going to make legislation from behind our desks without getting any knowledge from the field. That is why we have consultations, internet consultations and sometimes specific consultations. You must be able to weigh the information very well, because companies are of course at the table with a certain interest. That is why, for example, when it came to this issue, there were all kinds of knowledge institutes at the table to assess whether it was true what the companies were saying about what could and could not be done. I do not think that we should gain all this knowledge within the Ministry, because it is precisely the knowledge of the latest scientific state of affairs that is very important. That is why we use knowledge institutes such as RIVM and TNO. That's how we do it. It has been said that companies that have once been convicted should not sit at the table. In an earlier debate, I think, following an oral question, I said that I understood where the inconvenience came from. That is again the difference between a company that goes wrong once or really a polypleger and the question whether it should sit around the table. That is why I said: I think this is a question that is more important to our rule of law and how we deal with it as a rule of law. So I asked my colleagues in the Justice and Security Committee if there was a framework for it. We are talking about these kinds of situations, but they are likely to occur in other sectors as well. It is, of course, important that you are clear in your rule of law. JenV's ministry said there's no framework for that. In the Netherlands, it's not like you've been convicted forever if you've been convicted once. If you've fulfilled your sentence, you can start over. Again, at the same time, I understand the inconvenience with regard to repeaters who are structurally looking for the edge. That is why we are looking to see if we can do some extras. In addition, it is important that we ensure that the competent authority is very often able to maintain, maintain and supervise the province or the municipality, all the instruments, knowledge and skills necessary for the proper granting of permits. Wherever we can, we also support it with the ILT. As the Minister has just said, the ILT has opted for a risk-driven approach. It contains specific programmes in the field of the environment. The Minister has already said something about waste oil. One point I would like to make about the stakeholder consultation is the following. Sometimes companies come to us because they have a certain desire for regulation and sometimes we want to adapt something. In my view, Mr Wassenberg asked whether Mrs Van Brenn was actually setting out the lines. I have outlined in the last AO that I will come with a letter very quickly and before the next AO, in which I clearly state what my direction is. We then had an exchange of views on the elements that are very important: safe-by-design, prevention and well-defined what are potentially very worrying substances. So we want to try to arrange everything as well as possible at the front. We also want to intensify and so on. We also want to take new opportunities. Mrs Van Eijs referred to the circular economy. Of course, we also regularly get parties saying that the legislation cuts for the reuse of raw materials in the context of the circular economy. Then it's important that you check what can and can't be done. Again, we do so with the knowledge of the independent knowledge institutes. If you can value raw materials, which means it's no longer waste, but a raw material that you can use and that can get you closer to a circular economy, these are developments that we fully support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u80	I still don't think this is the whole story. The Secretary of State says that if it has ever been convicted and that there must be a clean slate, as has been said before, you cannot imitate it endlessly. But if we are going to look at that co-thinking about new laws, I wouldn't call it co-writing, but think along with it, we can see that a company was invited to do so, which had already been convicted once and which at that time was subject to two criminal cases. One of these cases ultimately resulted in community service. So we're not talking about simple violations. That's unsatisfactory, isn't it? You can say that a person or company is innocent while a case is still under trial. That is indeed an important principle. But if there are two lawsuits in progress and there is a recent conviction, not a thing of years ago, then surely it is very intricate to invite such a company to consider a new law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u81	I understand Mr Wassenberg's inconvenience, but at the same time he is already partly answering the question he is asking. As long as the lawsuit's still going on, those companies are innocent. It may well be that they will not be convicted for both of them at the end of the day. That's a constant balance that requires careful handling. Again, that is why I asked for advice from my colleague from JenV. Apart from the exact nature of the situation, I think that the information that the companies put on the table and which could relate to the subject we are talking about should be valued very well in order to avoid any form of influence that you do not want to have. You must set the right knowledge against the knowledge of those companies to assess whether a particular question is right or going in a direction you do not want. So that's what happened. In the end, it was RIVM, TNO and a few other parties to make sure that in this particular case we would make that assessment very careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u82	So you have the situation that there is no culprit if there is a criminal investigation and that this case does not count. But if the company has been convicted of a criminal offence, even if it has recently been done, and the sentence has been served, it doesn't count anymore. That means that it has no influence whatsoever, and that is indeed annoying. The Secretary of State says there are no criteria. In the letter she wrote that there are no regulations. Then it is useful to see if you can make those regulations, even though it is difficult and even if several ministries are involved? Surely it is important to ensure that these regulations are implemented quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u83	But it's not like there's nothing at all. In my view, Mr Ziegs referred to the fact that having or not having a licence in that sense is a ground for exclusion. But as long as a company has a license, it has a basis in our rule of law. If you think that the rules should be tightened on when companies should be allowed to obtain a licence, yes or no, then that is indeed an issue that is much wider than just on the environmental front. That seems to me to be more of a question of principle, because then you are really going to talk about a fundamental adjustment of the way our legal system works now. In other debates and with another member of the government, it is indeed necessary to deepen the foundations of our rule of law and how that fits in with the functioning of our rule of law. In this sense, there is a framework that does not involve companies that do not have a licence at such a time. In addition, I think it is very important that we look very closely at whether the information from the companies that are at the table with a licence, and the analysis they make, is also consistent with the analysis made by independent scientific institutes such as TNO and RIVM from the perspective of social interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u84	I have another question for the Secretary of State. If we have a round table here, we can see that a lot of companies are very keen to talk about this, because that is also a business card. If the suggestion is raised that there are criminals at the table, it also emanates from the ministry, the government and the government. That's how that was put in the documentary. There are plenty of companies that do that work, but don't have these kinds of backgrounds? If you have plenty of choice, do you pick the currants from the porridge or.............................................................................................................................................. I hope they can also be found in this sector. Can I have a reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u85	It is a dialogue, as Mr von Martels called it. We all have a certain degree of discomfort and see how we deal with it in a good way. You must respect the rule of law and at the same time ensure that those who seek the edge are not facilitated in it. In the consultation we were talking about here, we tried to have almost the whole sector at the table. We really wanted the width of what this was about. That's where the companies were. That's why these companies were sitting at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u86	I have one more question for my image. In a documentary, you can indeed sketch things one-sidedly. Were there so many companies that the good ones, who now suffer from the evil ones, also sat at the table? I am also curious about the internal correction. Are you working on the sector cleaning up its own mess and separating the chaff from the corn?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u87	I believe that almost the entire sector was invited to this consultation. But the number of parties wasn't that large. It is not the case that a specific selection has been made to have these parties. It really was a representative picture of the whole sector. I think that all these debates, the whole effort we have made to make our living environment more and more clean and safer and all the actions there are to identify and phase out potentially very worrying substances, clearly indicate to the whole sector where we want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u88	The Secretary of State states in her letter and again here that it cannot exclude certain companies. I understand that, because that is the way the law works in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State also points out that weighing this information is very important and that it requires knowledge institutions to do so. That's very good indeed. But wouldn't it also be helpful if somehow it's insightful whether it's a good company, so you know that you can take it seriously from the mouth of a certain person, or that it's a faulty business? Maybe it'd be a little less heavy if someone said something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u89	In your final weighing you always have a formal and an informal layer. I think it is very important that we ensure that all information is put on the table and that we have it scientifically tested. When a company says that a particular substance is not dangerous or wants to do something with a particular substance and asks if it can, you have, of course, the obligation, through European legislation, to draw up a very comprehensive dossier on the basis of REACH. All of this is being tested independently and internationally. These kind of test moments are, of course, even more important than the informal weighting you do yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u90	In addition to this. The Secretary of State also states that she has made any adjustments, or at least the input that is weighted, transparent and insightful. Part of it is just to see what's changed or what's not. But whoever reads this doesn't have the background to whether it's a good business or a bad business. Would there be an opportunity to better assess whether it is people, or whether it is a party, as you pointed out in the previous AO, which we already know we cannot rely on their word?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u91	I have spoken with you in the last AO about the multi-stakeholder approach. I have indicated that the provinces have indicated to me that they do see which companies are more likely to look for the edge. I also indicated at that time that information on this matter will be available and made public in the State of Security. That does not mean that the information that such a company puts on the table is, by definition, not reliable. You can't say that either. You're gonna have to find a balance in that. We talked in the AO about the knowledge that exists in provinces and the reporting on the State of Security. I'm gonna run that line, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u92	I will continue with my colleague's questions. Could a scoring system, looking at how a company has broken the law and committed environmental violations, not be part of the multi-stakeholder approach the Secretary of State is working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u93	I'm still developing it. I already told you. In my opinion, there has been some reflection in other sectors on how to give a price or effect again. I'd like to take the input with me. I can't see if this is a good idea right now, but I'm happy to include it in the recital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u94	My follow-up question is actually about a slightly different point with the same theme. We have now zoomed in a lot and talked about one specific stakeholder meeting. Of course, we are talking about 82 sector plans around LAP3, with a lot of different moments of participation. Can the Secretary of State really say here that there has been no weakening of the agreements in LAP3 of the environmental rules, following the participation of companies that have been involved in environmental crimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u95	I think there's been 105 speakers. I believe that a very heavy note of reply was sent to the Chamber as early as December. All the suggestions put forward and what has been done with them have been presented in a completely transparent way. The same applies to the question of which processing has taken place. It may well be that there have been companies that have asked whether it is possible to ensure that a particular raw material can be used for recovery. I have heard a story about cocoa beans, which were then labelled as waste but had a recovery application. You can read all that information about all these sector plans, completely transparent, in the very detailed response you received in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u96	I thank the Secretary of State for this suggestion to read it. I am, of course, asking for an analysis of what happened around LAP3. There is a great deal of concern about one specific stakeholder meeting. We have previously expressed our concern, in an AO External Security, about the situation regarding mercury, where legislation has been weakened after participation. So as far as I'm concerned, it's up to the Ministry to show us as a Chamber how it handled it. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that under the influence of environmental criminals, our legislation has not been watered down? That's the question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u97	Now Mrs Kröger is going to suggest something that I think she has no basis for. I just told her that things could have been changed in the LAP for all kinds of reasons. This has been communicated with the Chamber completely transparently. She links any adaptation to an environmental criminal, which is, of course, nonsense. I mentioned the example of an adjustment to re-use cocoa caps. We have therefore sent that LAP to the Chamber and consider it extremely important to be very transparent. For this reason, every change must be accompanied by a precise description of what has been changed. As far as mercury is concerned, the LAP refers to regulation and the LAP concept refers to regulation, but it was actually not in line with it. It has been adapted to bring it into line with the rules, which had not changed, by the way. It is therefore in line with the existing legislation in the landfills and landfill bans decision. That has happened on the issue of mercury. I have already informed Mrs Kröger of this and also confirmed it in writing in reply to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to focus on what we are talking about. I hear the Secretary of State mention a number of things in her introduction to this point. We are concerned above all with the repeaters who have gone wrong on several occasions, who have not only been structuralally seeking out the edges as the Secretary of State suggests, but have also gone over these edges a number of times and have also been punished for doing so. The point is that we do not necessarily exclude those companies from the wider sector, with fortunately a lot of good companies doing their best, but we will not invite them when we talk about future laws and rules. It's as simple as that. The Ministry organises a meeting and chooses to invite the entire sector. The choice can also be made not to invite the whole sector and to leave a number of companies behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u99	Mr. Laçin, your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u100	After consultation with JenV, it appears that there are no frameworks. So what frameworks can we put from the Ministry of Justice? I understand very well that we are also giving the rule of law an important place so that we do not allow the companies that have been overstepped and convicted on several occasions to participate and not invite them to the table? That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u101	I am pleased that Mr Laçin stresses that we are talking about exceptions and that a lot of companies simply respect the law and consider it very important to deal with their environment carefully. So we are talking about those who look up the edges or, as Mr Laçin says, go over them. We have discussed the framework. As far as the multi-party approach is concerned, I have said that we are going to look at it. We now have an additional framework that we can and also use, namely if the offences are so serious that the competent authority has withdrawn the licence. We really do use that as a condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u102	I am curious to see the multi-stakeholder approach that we are getting at some point. I want to feel a little more. We share the inconvenience, as has been said a number of times. It doesn't feel right that these kinds of companies come to the table. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what she can do from her own ministry if a meeting is organised. Can it see who it invites and who it does not invite, in the context of the whole sector, yes or no, or some companies, yes or no? There are plenty of companies that are doing well. Let us let them join us and talk to them instead of convicted environmental criminals. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u103	When I say that I share the inconvenience, we must also note that such an inconvenience cannot always be solved or can be cut with scissors. We have already had an extensive exchange of views on the multi-stakeholder approach and the need to deal with parties in a certain way in a rule of law. Mr Laçin is left with a certain inconvenience. I'll select on the license. He asks if we can select specifically on companies that we do not invite. At such a meeting, we must always ensure that you have a representative picture of a sector. Sometimes you choose to invite the whole sector. So I don't think this is a workable extra instrument at the moment. We use the license, and I'm gonna look at the multiplegic approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u104	A supplementary question, however, because the representative representation of the sector, fortunately, is also mainly made up of the many companies that are doing well, and not of the few that have repeatedly gone wrong. That is precisely why the question remains, does the Secretary of State not have the authority to decide who she invites to such a consultation? I think that's up to the Ministry itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u105	Yes, but in a rule of law there is also such a thing as equal treatment of parties. Then you must be able to clearly argue why you deal with parties in what way in certain situations. Everyone has the right to speak to a consultation, everyone. The man in the street, company A, company B, everyone has the right to speak to a consultation. That means, of course, that I respect that right, and that in addition, when it comes to inviting me, I will select specifically on that authorisation. But if you're gonna say, on top of that, "yes, but I like this company a little more than that company," you're gonna end up in another discussion about boyfriend politics. So you have to have clear frameworks for that, otherwise you run risks on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr President, I count, so I know that I am now at three quarters of my interruptions. But on this point, the Secretary of State says that everyone has the right to participate in such a consultation. But when I look at real society, everyone also has the right to apply for a particular job, for example. Only, sometimes we don't want certain people in certain functions. I'm just saying, we don't want a child molester working in a daycare center. For that we have a very nice instrument. It's called an explanation of behavior. I have looked at the website, it says: 'Declaration that your behaviour in the past does not object to a specific task in society'. Couldn't you also, by analogy, see if there's such a thing for inviting companies? Because you may have served your sentence, you may even be able to play a role in a criminal investigation at that time. But the moment you have one or more convictions, you may not get an explanation of behavior. It will be called different, it will be different, but could we look, or are you willing to investigate, whether such a thing could also exist for inviting companies for consultation rounds?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u107	Actually, we already have something like that. That's the permit. That is why, for me, this is a measure of assurance, which is also clear and transparent for all the parties applying for it. And issued by the competent authority. That is why I believe that this is a measure which I can use and which I also use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u108	The Secretary of State continues her speech. Or not, because Mr von Martels has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u109	I hope that the Secretary of State will not be prevented from organising meetings with entrepreneurs in the future, because some of my colleagues are simply talking about who is or is not at the table. It is, of course, a question of adequate policy and enforcement, and it is a question of organising it properly. Of course, you need the people from the field very much, so I hope you will continue to organise these meetings. I'd like to leave it to the Minister and the Secretary of State about who's sitting at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u110	Thank you. I can reassure Mr von Martels. I do not intend, nor does the Minister, to make the policy from an ivory tower. It is extremely important that we do so in good communication with the outside world. We are making decisions that have a significant impact on people, on companies. We must make sure that we know their interests before we make those decisions. That you always weigh well every information you get and weigh against national interests, that's why we are and are you. We do that here in this Chamber before rules are finally established. So I can agree with Mr von Martels on that point. Then there were a number of questions about enforcement. The deployment and approach of the ILT are described in the Multiannual Plan 2017-2021. For ILT, waste monitoring is one of the six priority issues in that multiannual plan. The Minister has already said something about this. Mrs Kröger asked whether it was true that the chances of getting caught are lower than for other offences. The regulators of environmental services and state inspections are taking firm action against environmental violations. If there are criminal offences, these cases will be transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This can lead to long-term cases, but ultimately the offenders are punished, as the documentary showed. It's up to the D.A. to make the choice between what's being prosecuted and what's not. The combined approach of REACH and waste increases the chance of catching. Mrs Kröger asked if there was sufficient capacity in the environmental investigation. Those considerations are made by the prosecution; it is not up to us to act on them. But OM and ILT/IOD already work closely together in concrete cases and in terms of approach. This does not really require a separate plan of action. Mrs Van Eijs asked if the environmental service has sufficient knowledge. The development of the environmental service was precisely aimed at strengthening the knowledge of the implementation practice and tasks of authorisation, monitoring and enforcement. The provinces indicate that they have sufficient knowledge. But again, we speak structurally with these services. We are also willing to share the knowledge of the ILT, where it is useful in support of the services to assist the competent authorities. But they are responsible for it. Mrs Van Eijs' question on fuel oil has been answered by the Minister. She also asked whether the ILT's combined monitoring of REACH waste is an example of pooling that could also be applied to other waste streams. Yes, also on other topics, such as plastics recycling, combined REACH and waste control can bring benefits. This will also be explored further by the ILT. Mr Von Martels asked if identified use in REACH means that substances are not harmful. No, based on REACH, we know that identified use means that the substance is not or is negligiblely harmful to humans and the environment when used. The advantage of REACH, which we also discussed during the last debate, is that we now know the characteristics of many and many more substances and we can also deal with their characteristics much more than before we had REACH. It has greatly increased the knowledge base for making careful decisions for the living environment. Then Mr Von Martels had some broader questions about an enforcement approach. He also referred to fuel oil and African blends. Before the summer recess, an extensive report will be presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mrs Van Eijs has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u112	I am glad to hear that the combined inspections may be effective in other areas. In your letter, you indicate that waste legislation is not always applicable and that we are therefore going to REACH. My question was whether REACH legislation gives the same level of safety. In other words: do we have to fix something or can we get enough out of our way with REACH?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u113	This REACH legislation helps us because it makes it clear what it can be used for. With this the ILT has a basis to maintain if substances are found in the oil whose use is not permitted. Then Mrs Van Brenk had the question of whether I could indicate whether the conviction was proportionate to the prosecution. It is really up to the judges to relate the proportionality of the sentence to the crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u114	Mrs Van Brenk has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u115	"The polluter pays" is a fine motto that is often used here. But if you look at the financial consequences of clearing up environmental pollution, I wonder. In that light, I would very much like an answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u116	This was also briefly discussed during the last AO. We have found together that a financial guarantee for companies which, for example, go bankrupt and leave behind a situation in which taxpayers pay for a lot of costs is a point that we want to work together. In addition, of course, you have the regular liability arrangements. The legislator can, of course, also take that kind of damage with the imposition of the penalty. Mr. Chairman. Mr Laçin asked what I can do to strengthen REACH at national level. REACH is international regulation. It is a matter of European regulation. Of course, we are also committed internationally to a well-functioning REACH system. In addition, from the point of view of care, we are also working on the list of potentially very worrying substances, which we have also exchanged in the last general consultations, in order to give the environmental services and competent authorities the tools to agree on additional precautionary measures with companies, for example in their permit. This was the answer to Mrs Van Eijs' question as to whether REACH provides adequate safety. The ILT also checks the completeness of REACH registrations and safety information. I think that is what Mrs Van Eijs' question was about. I'm just gonna go through my notes and see if there's another point. Mr. Van Aalst asked if we have any confidence that things will be going well in the future. I have every confidence in the ILT. I think that the risk-driven approach that she chooses is also one where we ensure that the risks that have the most social impact are also at the top of our list. Of course, that the list is always endless or perhaps longer than what you have the resources for, that's another story. But that risk-driven approach, I think, is the right one. That's what we need. The other questions I have, I think, answered, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u117	Before we move on to the second term of office, I ask whether any questions have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u118	In this context, the ILT framework, I specifically asked for a number of points. How many enforcement actions have been under this framework in 2017? What abuses have been found? How many are there? What steps has the ILT taken to counter this in the future? That is precisely what I am asking because I am very curious about the risk-driven approach and what it delivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u119	I can imagine that information on this can be found in the ILT's annual report. I don't have that information ready, but we can see if it can be shared with the Chamber that way. I believe that the ILT's annual report is the most appropriate time for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u120	Two questions have not yet been answered by me. I can imagine that one of them is a very difficult question. That question is: how many environmental crimes and how many convictions have there been in the last five years? The other question is whether the Secretary of State feels that the level of punishment is a little in proportion. I haven't heard a judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u121	On that last point, I did say that it is really up to the judge. To determine which penalty is proportionate for which crime is really the jurisdiction of the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u122	You don't make a statement about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u123	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u124	Part of my input was also about reversing the situation as it is now with the financial stimulus. I made a car sales pitch out of it. That's gonna be my architectural education. I would like the Secretary of State to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u125	Yeah, that's right. Mrs Van Eijs had indeed asked another question about this. We say together "the polluter pays." Those who produce the waste must in principle also pay for their disposal. But Mrs Van Eijs is referring to the question: are there any situations in which the incentive is actually wrong and it is easier to get rid of your waste without cost than to achieve proper treatment in a good way? I think she also sees and shares the ambition that, for as many raw materials as possible, you no longer want to go to the situation where you think that the waste is what we need to get rid of, but a raw material that we can use again. That's the transition we're in. Then it is very important to have careful discussions with the parties, perhaps even with those parties where the incentive is wrong. Can we stand a chance of that risk? I understand Mrs Van Eijs' question in such a way that she says: look carefully at it, because it reduces the potential risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u126	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I'm looking at the members. Everyone has a third of the original speaking time. That gives everyone one minute. I will be somewhat generous in reading motions, but we are not going to repeat the debate. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a need to increase the chance of taking and punishing serious environmental offences;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a scoring mechanism to better focus monitoring and enforcement on the multi-stakeholders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Laçin and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u128	I have a quick question. What measures will my colleague from GroenLinks propose exactly? Does this mean expansion capacity ILT?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u129	In the debate you will notice that the different types of environmental offences or offences are thrown into one big pile. It's actually said, once it's done and you've got a license, it's bad luck. We want a scoring mechanism to make it very clear which companies are involved, which are frequently involved in certain crimes, that they can then be more supervised and that these people are not then invited to stakeholder consultations as far as we are concerned, for which the Ministry makes the invitations. If you can score that way, you can really make a specific approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u130	It would be fantastic if we could expand and monitor the capacity of the ILT. Unfortunately, GroenLinks did not give up when she had the opportunity to do so, because she voted against the PVV motion, which made that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u131	If Mr Van Aalst has followed us in the debate on this, he has heard that we have often expressed our concern about the limited capacity of the ILT and, by the way, the environmental investigation at the Public Prosecutor's office on this point. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the likelihood of serious environmental offences being dealt with and punished is very low;]] [[calls on the Government to analyse the potential for taking and punishing environmental offences compared to other serious crimes;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a plan to increase the risk of serious environmental crime, e.g. by strengthening enforcement capacity in municipalities, provinces, environmental services, ILT and environmental police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Laçin and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u132	In the last fifteen seconds, I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State has moved far too easily over the concerns expressed by the Chamber about Beerput Netherlands, in particular about participation. She says everyone in the Netherlands can leave a message. These are invitations from the Ministry to companies that make mistakes over and over again. That's what we're talking about. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u133	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u134	Mr. Chairman. I have four motions. I'm not gonna waste any time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that criminally convicted environmental companies have been invited to stakeholder meetings on new environmental legislation;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for these convicted companies to contribute to the creation of new laws and regulations;]] [[noting that there are no rules excluding these companies from consultations or stakeholder meetings, but that on a case-by-case basis it is considered whether convicted companies are invited to consult or not;]] [[Whereas such arbitrariness should be encouraged;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up rules to exclude companies or persons convicted of environmental crime from stakeholder meetings or consultation rounds for new laws or regulations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that police reports and investigations refer to possible links between companies committing environmental crimes and public domain drivers;]] [[Considering that according to these reports there is a high risk of conflict of interest between actors and that there are sometimes double-hatting problems, including among municipalities;]] [[Whereas there is insufficient understanding of the degree of conflict of interest and the seriousness of the double-hatting problem;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the degree of conflict of interest between waste processors and public domain administrators and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent years a great deal of knowledge on the environment and environmental crimes has flowed away from the Empire due to austerity;]] [[calls on the government to invest in rebuilding knowledge of environment and environmental crime within its own organisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-41]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-42]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u135	My final motion is less than five minutes old. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are no rules that exclude convicted environmental-crimefenders from consultation or stakeholder meetings;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether a model similar to a statement on behaviour (vog) could become part of the multi-stakeholder approach, which could exclude convicted multiple-stakeholders from stakeholder meetings on new environmental legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u137	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u138	Mr President, three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in a circular economy, only raw materials in which there is no waste are used and government policy is to move towards a circular economy in 2050;]] [[considers that the system of paying for disposal of waste is not in line with a circular economy and offers a wrong incentive to process waste in a circular manner;]] [[calls on the government to consider how incentives can be shifted to create a system of payments for waste or waste. receiving raw materials;]] [[calls on the government to inform the Chamber of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[consider that it is undesirable to be partly dependent on companies with a history of environmental crime in (public) consultations because of their expertise;]] [[Whereas as much knowledge as possible at the table is essential in order to better deal with (regulation of) harmful substances and to prevent their spread in the environment;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how such consultations could be organised differently in the future, for example by drawing up a blacklist, in order to ensure that the input of different parties can be properly weighed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-45]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u139	I've got three. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas licensing, monitoring and enforcement tasks (VTH tasks) and expertise are spread across several competent authorities and bodies and good knowledge of matters is crucial to prevent pollution;]] [[calls on the Government to identify how information and expertise can be shared as efficiently as possible between competent authorities and how possible knowledge gaps can be filled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u140	Mr President, three motions for resolutions. I'll start right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that convicted environmental criminals are invited to consider future environmental rules and laws;]] [[noting that several companies have been more frequently convicted of environmental offences;]] [[noting that there are no guidelines for banning these companies from meetings organised by the government;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for many people to co-operate on new environmental rules and laws;]] [[calls on the government to explore what feasible frameworks can be put in place to prevent companies that have repeatedly gone wrong in the creation of new environmental rules and laws,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has stricter environmental rules compared to many other countries;]] [[noting that ships from countries with less stringent environmental rules also touch our country;]] [[Whereas there is a risk that these ships will carry and discharge substances which are prohibited here;]] [[calls on the government to instruct ILT to monitor ships from countries with much less stringent environmental rules more frequently,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to IMO rules only very worrying and carcinogenic substances should not be discharged at sea;]] [[noting that many substances have been identified as potentially very worrying and the effects of these substances on our health are unclear;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that potentially very worrying substances enter our environment and body;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit or minimise the discharge of potentially highly worrying substances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-48]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-49]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u141	Thank you! Mr Ziegs waived his speaking time, so did Mr Van Aalst. Mr. Von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions from the CDA. However, I have asked a number of technical questions in the first period. Most of them haven't been answered. I'll name two of them. What are the penalties for mixing waste other than fuel oil under REACH? As regards enforcement, the CDA asks to what extent there is attention to suspicious behaviour, whereby in the Netherlands certain substances, other than fuel oil, are mixed with the fuel oil. My request to the Secretary of State is that they be answered in writing, because a number of questions have not yet been answered. Finally, I hope that the experience with the fuel oil files will now be used as lubricating oil for appropriate policy and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u143	Thank you to Mr von Martels. I call Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u144	Mr. Chairman. I have three points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas major environmental offences can cause considerable damage to humans and the environment;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for the polluter to pay;]] [[Whereas penalties should be dissuasive;]] [[Whereas an environmental offence is potentially destructive of society;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to substantially increase the penalty rate for environmental offences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the impression is given that major environmental crime does not result in punishment of a deterrent level;]] [[calls on the Government to map the convictions of major environmental offences of the last five years and to forward them to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn, Mr Kröger, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-51]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u145	Mr. Chairman. I shall table that last motion because I have asked twice for a commitment on that understanding. I asked the Secretary of State to provide that overview. If she makes that commitment, I understand that she has to be with her colleague for that, then I shall withdraw the motion just as easily. I hope she will take the trouble to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u146	That's what we're gonna hear from the Secretary of State. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u147	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their commitment to this important dossier. I've been able to pull two motions towards me, I'd almost say. The first is the motion in part No. Mr Laçin and others, in which he asked the government to instruct the ILT to check ships from countries where they had less stringent environmental rules more frequently. I can reassure Mr Laçin, because that is the policy we are already pursuing. In that sense, the motion is superfluous and I can advise against the motion. Then I have the motion in part no. 50, also by Mr Laçin and others, in which he called on the Government to ban or minimize the discharge of potentially very worrying substances. Mr Laçin also knows, of course, that you cannot ban this because the potential is very worrying substances and they have not yet been identified as such. If I could minimize it in such a way that we should argue for it at European level, I would like to do so. We are already doing this, of course, because we have the GenX discussion in the Netherlands to promote the list of substances that RIVM has made with the potentially very worrying substances also at IMO level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u149	The verdict is then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u150	Then you should edit a little bit, because if it is your commitment that we are calling attention to this internationally, then I could give judgement Chamber. Then the operative part should be changed, I should check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u151	I'll change the operative part and then send it around. I would also like to ask a question about the motion for a resolution on item No. 49 which was dissuaded because it is standing policy. I would like to hear from the Minister how this policy is being implemented. That's unknown to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u152	I propose that we return to that in writing and ask the ILT to indicate exactly how they are doing it. I do not know other than that it is indeed being looked at when it comes, for example, from certain African countries. Then there is more attention to it than when it comes from another European country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u153	Then I'm prepared to hold the motion. One more question: when could the Court receive that reply in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u154	Let me say that I am doing my best to get that to the Chamber before the summer recess, but I still have to take a swing. That will be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u155	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u156	At the request of Mr Laçin, I propose his motion (29862 No. 49). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u157	The Minister hereby undertakes to return to this matter in writing. With regard to the motion in part No. 50 the Minister has indicated his willingness to give this motion a Chamber's opinion, provided that Mr Laçin amends his operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u158	Perhaps the Minister could stand still, because I have a specific question for her. I've been a little confused. During the previous debate, the VAO Maritime, it was a standing policy that you said you could give Chamber. Now you say on standing policy that you're not telling me. It is a bit of a confusion in the overall sense, but perhaps the cabinet can find a good alignment. One day it'll be dissuaded and the other time it'll be judgment room. What's the stand-up policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u159	That's a good question. In this case I thought: the motion is really superfluous, I do not think there is any point in voting on something that we all agree on. It may well be that one time something slipped in which I thought "Well, this sounds fine, no objection, so judgment Chamber." It may well be that this is not being handled in a completely consistent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u160	Perhaps this is a good time to improve that in the future. That does not mean that you are going to discourage Mr Laçin's motion in the VAO Maritime on the basis of what you have just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u161	I don't know exactly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u162	I am sorry to interrupt, but we have been very clear on the two motions tabled by Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u163	I think Mr Laçin was satisfied with it too, so let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u164	Mr von Martels makes a good point, but that is partly our own homework. If we in the Chamber find anything about this, we must take a position on it through, for example, the Van der Staaij Committee or ask the government about it once. I call the Secretary of State. She will respond to any other motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to get through it quickly. I'll start with the motion in part No. 39, tabled by Mrs Kröger together with Mr Wassenberg and Mr Laçin and Mrs Van Brenn. The motion is about a scoring mechanism for supervision and enforcement. In doing so, Mrs Kröger anticipates the multi-stakeholder approach that I intend to develop. The motion tells me how to do that. I have to discourage this motion. I just promised to look at this idea, but this motion is really "do it." I just don't want to anticipate that, so I'm gonna advise the motion. Perhaps Mrs Kröger will say: I will hold the motion, and I will be able to assess the product again on the basis of this motion. That would be another option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u166	My question to the Secretary of State is whether the motion, if I amend it in the sense that it says that an investigation is to be carried out into a scoring mechanism as part of this multi-stakeholder approach, may receive a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u167	I would ask Mrs Kröger to hold the motion. In thinking about how such an approach might look, it might be that we are heading in a different direction than a scoring mechanism. Then I'll have to have a whole investigation conducted separately into something that might be getting thrown away pretty early. That would be a waste of people's commitment and resources. But I have already said to Mrs Kröger in her first reply that I would like to take a look at it, because I am happy to take all the creative and good ideas from the Chamber. That is why I suggested to Mrs Kröger that the motion be held. It can then always put it to the vote if it feels that this is not enough in the end, and it wants it to be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u168	For now, the motion in part No. 39 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u169	I would like to suggest to Mrs Kröger that the motion be retained. Otherwise, I have to discourage it in this wording. I have already said in the first period of the debate that I will, of course, take a look at the idea. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion-Kröger c.s. in piece No. 40, which calls for an increase in the penalty rate for serious environmental offences and a plan of action. There is already considerable cooperation between the various supervisors and the Public Prosecutor. This is aimed at the effective approach and enforcement. There are also new approaches to increase the chances of getting caught, so I don't see an additional plan of action at the moment as added value. This really has the attention. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u170	The motion in part No. 40 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u171	Then I would very much like to respond to a specific part of the motion, namely the analysis of how the chance for environmental crime is actually so much lower if you compare it with other criminal sectors. This analysis is the basis of how we can improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u172	There is indeed a second request in the motion. Otherwise, let me say to Mrs Kröger that we will return to this in a letter to the ILT's annual report, for example. We will see if there is any further analysis of this. Mr. Chairman. Then the Wassenberg motion c.s. in piece No. 41 in which the government is requested to exclude companies or persons convicted of environmental crime from stakeholder meetings or consultation rounds for new laws or regulations. In fact, there are a lot of motions that take advantage of this. I have to say to all Members of the House that I will, unfortunately, discourage their motions on this point. I've indicated how I want to deal with this. We use the permit as a criterion whether or not parties can participate in stakeholder meetings. I want to stick to that, too. In addition, I have already indicated that I am coming to the Chamber with a multiplegic approach. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u173	The motion in part No. 41 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u174	I will repeat this later on some of the other motions. The Wassenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 42 calls on the Government to conduct an investigation into conflicts of interest. I have spoken about this in the first term. In the past there has been cause for this, there have been investigations, its companies have been condemned, legislation has been strengthened and the system has even been strengthened with the RUDs and so on. All those things were focused on reducing that problem, that concern. This is something that requires constant attention. Reports are also written about it all the time. I now see no reason to conduct another separate investigation and therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u175	The motion in part No. 42 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u176	I didn't base this on Beerput Nederland. I've really based this on some recent pieces. I have here the Dreigingsbeeld Environmental Crime 2016 and I have here Environmental Crime in the Netherlands, about 2012. So these are all fairly recent things. This isn't like the '80s or anything. These are still relatively new concerns of the police. So it's been going on for a while, but I notice from those pieces that it hasn't gotten any less. So that's why I asked you to take another look at what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u177	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u178	In fact, Mr Wassenberg illustrates with this kind of report that this has the constant attention and that this continues to be looked at. That is why I say that a separate analysis is not necessary, but continuous vigilance is necessary. I'm going to the motion in part no. 43 by Mrs Van Eijs on sufficient knowledge and skills in the preparation of legislation and regulations. That's incredibly important. He's also present at the Ministry. In addition, we also ask for additional substantive and legal knowledge of TNO, RIVM, PBL and so on. They are of course also important to ensure that we always have the right input. This also applies to Rijkswaterstaat and the Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland. In many areas, therefore, we also ensure that we gain that knowledge. In addition, there are, of course, the consultations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u179	Wait a minute; there's some confusion. What is the verdict on the motion in part No. 43? So that is Mr Wassenberg's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u180	Oh, wait a minute. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u181	That is not Mrs Van Eijs' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u182	Yeah, it's all wrong with me. Mr Wassenberg's motion calls on the government to invest in the reconstruction of knowledge of the environment and environmental crime within its own organisation. That is why I must advise against the motion, because we consider it so important to be able to include the latest state of science and the like. That is precisely why these external and independent knowledge institutes are so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u183	The motion in part No. 43 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u184	Yeah, it's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u185	The motion in part No. 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u186	That motion also belongs to Mr Wassenberg. It calls for the introduction of a vog and, on this basis, does not allow people to attend that stakeholder meeting. I have already said that I must discourage the motions that take hold of them. We have a permit. I'll handle it. Actually, it can be interpreted as similar to a vog.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u187	The motion in part No. 44 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u188	There is one big difference between a permit and a statement of behaviour: a statement of behaviour is also about the past and a permit is only about the here and now. It may be that a company has committed crimes in the past and still has a licence. That's why I said: get a statement about the behavior, because then you can also look at the recent past. That's a real difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u189	When granting a licence, the competent authority will, of course, consider the reliability of the party applying for the licence. So it's not like that past never plays along at all. The motion in part No. However, Mrs Van Eijs is asking the government to consider how incentives can be shifted or strengthened in the future, so that clean reuse of raw materials pays off over the production of waste. This motion fits in well with what I am doing in the circular economy, also to turn negative incentives into positive incentives. That, in my view, was actually Mrs Van Eijs's point. So I could take over this motion. Otherwise, I shall leave the vote on the motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u190	Is there any objection to taking over this motion? That's the case. Then the verdict on the motion will be left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u191	Yes. Mrs Van Eijs also has a wish for consultations and proposes that a blacklist be drawn up. As with the other motions in this area, this motion which I have said applies to me as a criterion. So I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u192	The motion in part No. 46 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u193	The exact operative part reads: "e.g. by drawing up a blacklist." I'm not the one who prescribes the cure. Would there perhaps be more room for this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u194	In my view, I have made it very clear that I want to use the licence as a criterion, so that it is clear to everyone. In dealing with the multiplegic approach that comes to the Chamber, I am prepared to review all the ideas, as I also promised Mrs Kröger, but in relation to those consultations, as I said in the other motions, I use the permit as a criterion, because that is clear and predictable for everyone. That is why I should discourage this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u195	Mrs Kröger, it is a motion by Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u196	I have a question about the broad issue of the invitation policy for stakeholder consultations, on which I believe three motions, including my name, are not recommended. Because that's what we're talking about; we're not talking about the general consultations online, which everyone can actually participate in. The Secretary of State outlines that she can't exclude anyone from that, but we're talking about the Ministry's invitation policy for his own stakeholders. Now the Secretary of State says that only the permit is a criterion. Will anyone who has a licence be invited to all stakeholder consultations on any subject? Or are certain choices made about which companies are invited or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u197	It always looks at what the relevant group you need in such a stakeholder consultation. In the case of the consultation under consideration, almost the whole sector has been invited. Turns out all those companies were licensed. Of course, they've been checked for that. That's why I say that's what you do. If a sample of companies is actually taken or a selection of companies is made, then you look at the representativeness of the companies that then slide at the table. The licence is also used as a criterion for whether those parties may be present, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u198	Mrs. Kröger, I'm just as strict. We are not going to have the debate here again. You had a clear question and you received an answer. Mrs Van Eijs, do you have a question about your motion on item No. 46?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u199	Yes. The Secretary of State has just indicated that she uses the permit as a criterion for inviting. I get that. But the operative part of my motion is just trying to preserve that. I understand that they should be invited, but in the motion I ask if there is not a way to weigh that differently. Once again, I hope that may change some of the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u200	I understand the quest of Mrs Van Eijs and other members of the Chamber. I've also named the inconvenience you're feeling and the search for what we can now use. At the same time, it is very important that the rules of the game are clear in our rule of law. A number of rules apply. It must also be predictable. That is why I spoke to my colleague from JenV, precisely to ask him whether, because of this inconvenience, we can do something else and whether there is another framework. We are talking about this now in the fuel oil sector, but there are, of course, many sectors in which these kinds of issues arise. That is why I felt it was so important to discuss this with my colleague from JenV. It says: no, there is no framework, but what you can handle is the permit. I do. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 47. This calls for an inventory of how information and expertise can be shared as efficiently as possible between competent authorities and how possible knowledge gaps can be filled. We could also adopt this motion, because it fits the supervisory ambition to work risk-oriented and information-driven, and to share information properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u201	So the verdict on this motion is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u202	I said I could take over the motion, but that depends. Otherwise, it's up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u203	Is there any objection to that? That's not the case as far as I can tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u204	It invites the government to explore what feasible frameworks can be put in place. This in turn relates to the consultations we have been discussing, or it anticipates the multi-stakeholder approach that I have yet to come up with. So I would ask Mr Laçin to hold the motion when it comes to the multi-stakeholder approach, similar to what I said to Mrs Kröger. Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u205	That is actually the same point as the previous two motions, which have been discouraged. What it's all about, and I'm really trying to get that straight, is that the Ministry itself decides how to set up a meeting. Are you inviting frontrunners, representative representation or the whole sector? An internet consultation is open to everyone, but when we start working on future laws and rules, the Ministry itself should decide who invites it to a meeting. That is what this motion calls for, and it can be done. The Ministry can decide who is invited and who is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u206	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u207	I am concerned with the broad point that everyone actually shares here: why does the Secretary of State so easily step over it and only look at the permit, when she can decide for herself who she invites?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u208	Your point is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u209	That is indeed at the heart of the debate on all these points. I've reported it before and also contacted the JenV Ministry to ask: can you do more here? I understand the inconvenience, but in our rule of law we must also ensure that the rules are clear and predictable. The ministry of JenV has come back to me and said: no, there is no framework for that. You have a permit. That's what you can handle. That's exactly what I'm doing. In addition, there are agreements about such a group invitation. In the event that is under scrutiny, the whole sector is invited, because you want the widest possible information. In addition, it is the question, if you invite another group, whether it is representative. Those are the things we can send, but I can't send for the conviction. The Chamber is asking me to use this as a criterion that prevents companies from being invited. This means that they could simply speak through the internet consultation, but not in the consultation with the people at the table, which of course is exactly the same. Mrs Kröger also indicated quite clearly that you cannot ban it. Well, those companies give their information and then they react nicely. It is therefore not the solution you are looking for on the one hand. On the other hand, you create a situation that is not clear to anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u210	Mr. Laçin, the Secretary of State's question was whether you're prepared to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u211	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u212	That's obvious. I also believe that there has been a wide-ranging exchange of views on this issue. The Secretary of State has indicated a few times how she stands in it. You will not get the answer you are waiting for, but I just wanted to suggest that the Secretary of State should give an opinion on the rest of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u213	The motion in part No. 51 calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to increase the penalty rate. It's up to the ministry of JenV and the judge to decide what the penalty is. So I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u214	Wouldn't the Secretary of State be able to pass this on to her colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u215	Yes, but why would Mrs Van Brenn submit a motion to me if it is intended to be dealt with by the colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u216	Because the environmental crimes are with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u217	Then the question is whether the Chamber thinks it should be higher. It is up to the JenV Ministry to discuss this, so I would say: bring this idea back to a debate with my colleague. If Mrs Van Brenk wishes to do so, I would be happy to pass the motion on to the Minister; no problem. However, I cannot give the motion a positive opinion in this debate. If I see that she appreciates that, I will pass this motion on to my colleague and ask him to give it an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u218	So the judgment remains "dissuade," but you bring him to the attention of your colleague from JenV. Then the motion to part No. 52.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u219	It calls on the government to identify the convictions of major environmental crimes. I think this is just public information that should be available. Here too I am quite willing to see if it is possible to make it easy to understand, but I think we also need JenV's cooperation for this. If it really was going to be a very large separate investigation, then I have to come back to Mrs Van Brenk to ask if that was the intention at all. I would therefore ask that this motion be retained. Well, let's get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u220	Mrs. Van Brenk, are you prepared to hold this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u221	I'm willing to do that. I would just like to know when I will be able to hear about it, so whether it will succeed or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u222	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (29862, No. 52). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u223	Let's agree that in the short term I am trying to tell Mrs Van Brenk whether it is a very big exercise and whether it is up to us or not or whether we are thinking of being able to provide information about it relatively quickly with possibly even the links to the website. Then we'll do the same soon. Mr von Martels asked another question about a punishment for "mixing" waste. This can be punishable both by criminal law and by administrative law. The amount of the fine depends on the facts and circumstances, including the environmental risk. Mr von Martels has also asked whether attention is being paid to suspicious waste. Once again, I apologise that it was not included in the first term. On this point, too, I would like to refer to the research on fuel oil which I am sending you before the summer. That point of attention to suspicious behavior is also taken into account. I hope that I have answered the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u224	Thank you. We have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the two directors for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u225	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. Then we will continue, among other things, the farewell of Mr Dijksma.
