ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr Middendorp is now speaking on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People want the government to do everything in their power to keep them safe, even online. If you are communicating with the government, you want to be able to trust that your personal data is safe and that you are not the victim of identity fraud. In this house we have already talked a lot about the website MijnGovernment.nl, with which the government communicates with the Dutch. We talked about people getting into payment problems because they don't see messages. We talked about sometimes being difficult to access the website. Last weekend, the Fraudhelpdesk warned against deceptively real-looking phishing-e-mails from MijnGovernment.nl, which tried to steal people's login data. It is of course a good thing that the government has taken immediate action and warned, but I have some questions for the Minister. Since when is this problem known to the Ministry? Has any immediate action been taken? How many people have been hurt by this? How are we gonna help the victims who hit this? Have the unsubs who tried to commit identity fraud been found yet? The next question is really very important: what does this do for trust in the digitalising government? Is this another step back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought there was gonna be another question. Mr. Chairman. What has happened is indeed extremely annoying. Through a phishing email, people tried to extract their DigiD features. That's what happened. Of course, we know the phenomenon of phishingmails. People are alert to that, too. In this case, Logius, the department of BZK responsible for this, has also overtaken this by a notification from an alert citizen. That seems to have happened pretty quickly. There was also immediate intervention. So from that moment on people have been warned: on the site of MyGovernment this practice has been made widely known. That's how people are alerted. In addition, it has been ensured that the websites you came up with when you clicked through from that e-mail have been removed from the sky. So I think that from that moment on, there's also a protocol for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, the DigiD accounts have been removed from the approximately 200 people who had already logged in. They must therefore create new accounts and they will also be assisted in doing so. They have also received a letter on how this should be done. In addition, an official report has been filed. That is of course also very important, because we also want to know who did this and why, to prevent it from happening again, but especially to get the perpetrators, if that is possible. So in answer to the questions, the following. It was discovered on June 22nd. We know from 200 people, who have indeed logged in and clicked through, that they need to re-create an account. They'll be helped. There's been a report. Every effort is being made to find the perpetrators. And you can't be too careful and we really need to be very alert about this, because we know that things like this happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you to the Minister for the answer. We need to be alert. I also understand the advice of the government, for example, type in a website address yourself. Again, it is good that the government has quickly warned and acted. For now, it helps to prevent worse, but isn't it a lot of wood string after all? The question is: isn't it another huge step back for trust in the digitalizing government? I think that question is important, because precisely because the current login system is not safe enough, it pays to send this kind of phishing emails and try to steal people's DigiD. I understand that 90% of the people still login to DigiD with just a password. Is the Minister therefore planning to speed up work on, for example, two-step identification with DigiD? Shouldn't we quickly improve the government's login system and make it safer so that it doesn't pay any more to send these phishing emails? I understand that the Netherlands is actually lagging behind in Europe in terms of safe logging in. I hear a lot of countries have done much better. How are we going to catch up? In short, how are we going to ensure that people can get in touch with the government online with confidence? And how are we going to ensure that the government is not always distracted by these incidents in its digital agenda, which is so important to us too? Does the Minister agree with me that this is a wake-up call, that the government needs to digitize much faster and that the government must quickly ensure that people can communicate safely digitally with the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	These are, of course, very justified points by Mr Middendorp. These are all things that people from BZK, from Logius, started to work with. Fortunately before, because of course we do not want to lag behind. We are trying to use the digital government as a good service for people, but it must of course be 100% safe. Mr Middendorp cites some examples: is it enough to use a password alone or do you need a two-step ID, and what other safeguards can be built into the system? So that's all work in progress. The fact is that the professionalisation of such phishing practices should lead to strengthened protocols. But I very much agree with him that this is very undesirable. I think it is also right that he should draw attention to that, so that people also know that you are still being approached by MyGovernment with an email containing a link to click on. That alone is a signal that something is going on. You can get an email from MyGovernment, but then you just have to log in to the DigiD-site yourself. In short, I agree with Mr Middendorp. We need to be very sharp on this. We can't sit still. The improvements he mentions are relevant and to the attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	The question is... It's work in progress, but I think it's also a wake-up call, if I can answer it with an English word. We shouldn't talk about getting a two-step process all the time, but just make a plan to do it quickly. Then you don't have to talk about these kinds of incidents, but you have a login system that is really safe and where you don't have to advise people not to click on a link, because you have a two-step login system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Middendorp really has a point. But what is striking about this action is the surprisingly strong resemblance between this false e-mail and its own corporate style. So I think we should do what Mr Middendorp says, but we should always be alert to the fact that there are people who continue to specialise in them for their mucky reasons. No matter how well we do it, we must always be alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	We shouldn't just stay alert; we should get ahead of them. That's actually the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes, I agree with Mr Middendorp. That did not happen in this case. It is good to note that, if this happens, rapid action will be taken. But, of course, it is the intention to prevent it. That's better than healing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	Still, in this case it didn't happen, but if you look back at how long we've been talking about safely logging in to the government, you'll see that there are a lot of cases where that hasn't happened. Again, we need to be alert, and I also support the direct action of the government. But I think it raises the question of whether it is not a wake-up call to make a system much faster, for example a two-step login system that allows people to truly log in safely to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Middendorp and I can continue to agree for a long time. Again, I really think he is making good points. I also think that we should not only learn from this case, but also really turn it into improvements. I will also give this to Secretary of State Knops, in whose name I am standing here, so that the plan that is being worked on is as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u13	Finally, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u14	I look forward to it. I prefer to get an e-mail message that it worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yes, without link, Mr. Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-4.u16	Okay. Thank you. Thanks also to the Minister. We are actually ready for the last question, but we are waiting for the Minister of Medical Care for a moment.
