ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u1	We will now proceed with the VAO Exams. I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. It's a long motion, so I'll start right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the performance of Dutch secondary school pupils in the international PISA study is constantly decreasing at all levels;]] [[Considering that the evolution of the average figures for the central examination is constant to increasing, particularly for key subjects since the introduction of the core subject scheme, while the evolution of the average figures for the school examination is constant;]] [[Whereas the N-terms play a crucial role in determining the central examination figures;]] [[considers that it is very important that the quality of examinations and the development of the skills of pupils can be optimally identified and monitored;]] [[Calls on the Government to conduct independent research into the real development of pupils' skills over the past ten years, at least in mathematics and English subjects, and on the extent to which the use of the N terms and possible other factors promote or complicate the picture of this development, and to inform the Court thereof before 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen, Bruins, Van Haga and Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-359]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister once again for his commitments in the general consultation on examinations. I thought it was a good consultation, in which we discussed a number of issues. I was particularly pleased with the attention given by the Minister to students who, for example, need a little more time for their exams because of a chronic illness. Nevertheless, my group continues to be concerned about the increase in performance pressure and stress and burn-outs among students and students. The Minister has agreed to include stress surrounding exams in an NRO study, but this is a somewhat narrow approach, given the great importance of this issue. For example, a previous study by the Kinderombudsman among young people showed that the school system was often mentioned when asking what could be better done in children's lives. We therefore consider this issue to be very important. That is why I am tabling the next motion on behalf of GroenLinks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many pupils and students have study stress and burn-out complaints;]] [[Whereas in a report by the Kinderombudsman, young people most often identify the school system as an important point to address;]] [[Whereas it is unknown how many pupils and students do not attend school due to stress and burn-outs;]] [[Whereas work pressure, stress and burn-out complaints in pupils and students are taken into account in existing studies but the nature of the problem is so important that a separate study is desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation into high workload, stress and burn-out complaints among pupils and students and their relationship with the education system, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-360]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for this and the two motions tabled. Mr Van Meenen's motion for a resolution 359, which he has tabled together with colleagues Bruins, Van Haga and Rog, touch on a subject on which we have already had a good start in the general discussion. We knew it would continue at another time. I see the signature of that motion and I can count, but I'm going to try anyway. After all, I have some difficulty with this motion. I'll explain why. In the general discussion on the exams, I indicated that care is really incredibly crucial, especially in the case of exams. Looking at the subject that is touched on here, I think it is a little too soon to ask for an independent investigation immediately. We have discussed in general consultation that it would indeed be good to look at an appropriate form to bring together the parties involved, the CvTE and the Cit, and information present in the Ministry, and to engage in an intrusive discussion about what is actually happening. The subject that Mr Van Meenen touches upon has also been addressed by Mr Bisschop. Indeed, it is very intriguing and worth discussing further. But now we're actually skipping this stage and going straight to an independent investigation. Well, right, I know that if you want to conduct such an investigation, you have to award it. That's gonna take a lot of time anyway. Mr Van Meenen would like to be informed before 2019. If you do that tender in a good way, I think we might have it around just before the summer. Then the investigation can be carried out. That's gonna take a while. This is a very specific subject, which also requires very specific knowledge if you want to do this independently, externally, outside the parties I have just mentioned. That will also be reflected in the costs. We already know one thing for sure: we're really not gonna make it to make sure there's a report before 2019 that's worth it. In fact, I would like to make the following appeal to the parties who have tabled this motion. Let us go into that first stage together; I believe that this can be arranged in the short term. On the basis of the results of that consultation, we can then decide whether or not it makes sense to make the costs and the time investment to have that independent research carried out. So I would advise against this motion, but I am doing a hand-picking to the Chamber, because I also think it is important that this issue be taken up further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u5	I regret that the Minister is throwing all kinds of arguments on the road that are not very fundamental, namely that it needs to be tendered and that it may take longer than 2019. I'm sure you do, but I think there's actually a lot of independent research already. That is precisely why we need to come to this conclusion. There is independent PISA research that shows year in, year out that we are in a declining trend, while we ourselves have the picture that it is stable. That was also the immediate reason for me to propose this in the general consultation. So I can imagine it taking longer, but I can't go along with the Minister's proposal for the time being. I would like to give him the opportunity to make "for 2019" or "for the summer of 2019," if necessary, but I am very committed to this research being carried out. I'm not saying that out of mistrust, but just because we have to have clarity for once: are we looking at ourselves now, or can we really really be very happy with everything we're doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u6	Mr Van Meenen regrets that I am, say, throwing something on the road not to have this investigation done. However, he does not go into my first comment, namely that I attach great care and that I think it is very important that we test the organisations involved in this first phase with each other. Those aren't just any organizations. For example, there is the CvTE, which, as you know, we have even made a Zbo, which has great responsibilities and a great deal of knowledge about this subject. The same goes for CITO. I think it is a matter of decency in the direction of these organisations to do so, but I also think it is important to give them the space to talk to us. The subject is interesting; no doubt. In those PISA studies and those results of the exams you see a slight decrease on the one hand and on the other the same. What's going on out there? What's going on? That is what we need to talk about, but I do not think we should take the step towards an independent investigation now. It's just the reality: that really costs a lot of money and it's going to take a lot of time. You'd even have to blame me if I didn't say that here. To do such an investigation without taking that first step, I do not think that is a very good order. That's why I'm reacting like I'm reacting, without wanting to make the subject smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u7	Obviously. Thank you. Mr. Van Meenen, the Secretary of State is dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u8	Yeah, still do. Do you mind if I respond one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u9	Yeah, but that's the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u10	Look, this is not meant at all as a motion of censure towards those who are doing all that wonderful work for us, but they are involved. I would say that they should certainly be involved in that investigation. It must be very clear what is happening there and why it is happening as it happens. Somehow that discrepancy between what has so far been established independently and what we observe from our own system will have to be established. I would add that this can simply be done in a scientific study. I very much wonder if all that needs to be tendered. We have an NRO and everything else, so that argument doesn't strike me as...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u11	Thank you. I would like to point out that at least you do not agree with the Minister's appeal. I'm giving the Minister one last chance to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u12	Yes, very briefly. I didn't put the word "disloyal" in my mouth, but I do care. It seemed to me a little trouble to start that conversation with these people before you take the step towards an independent investigation. I have made some comments on the costs, time and specific nature of such an investigation. You can't just put that down here and there. That's very specific knowledge. I think it is my job to give that to the Chamber before it votes on this motion. I stand by my judgment, namely that I am deceiving this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u13	Thank you. Then your appreciation of the motion in part no. 360.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u14	On the subject of the motion tabled by Mrs Westerveld on behalf of Mr Kwint, I made her a promise last week that I would like to take it with me, where possible. I would like to link it very specifically to research that is already being done, for example the research that the NRO is going to do in the exams. So I could already give one concrete example. That was, in a manner of speaking, the first profit you made. I therefore find it a pity that you are now asking for a larger overall investigation. I think it is quite possible to give this particular subject a place in ongoing investigations. I didn't know it last week, but last week's knowledge came to me that the Children's Ombudsman, whoever you referred to, is on a deepening basis following the earlier investigation. It will come in the near future. In fact, that might even be a bit of a implementation of the motion. I also know that in this calendar year the Education Inspectorate is conducting an investigation into the motivation of students. It is not excluded that the subject of the motion will also be referred back to it. So there are a few tests going on, and I'm going to link the subject to a short-term examination of the exams. That is why I do not think it is necessary to add an additional, larger study to that. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u15	We have tabled this motion mainly because we were a little afraid that if this point is taken into account in another investigation, you will, so to speak, be given two paragraphs on this subject. We wanted to avoid that; hence this motion. In the meantime, I have also seen that the Minister went into this subject in an interview in the Algemeen Dagblad last weekend, so I am quite prepared to hold this motion. Then we will see what will appear on this subject in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u16	Perhaps that is a very nice compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u17	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (31289, No. 360). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u18	I thank the Minister for his presence. This brings us to the end of this VAO Exams.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-23.u19	I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. Then the Chamber continues with the debate on the Foreign Minister's statements on a meeting with President Putin.
